]\gt ; V. snrements of the -lengths of Lines of High ngibility in the Spectra of Elementary Substances .
W. N. HARTLEY , F.R. S.E. , , Professor of Chemistry , of Science , nd W. E. ADENEY , F. C.S. , Associate of the Royal Coll/ ge of Science : Dublin .
by Professor STOKES , .D .
, Sec. Received March 20 , \mdash ; Read Apri119 , 1883 .
[ PLATES 4-6 .
] INTRODUCTION .
IN the Philosophical Transactions , , pp. 257-274 , 1879 , one of us has Tibed , in conjunction with Mr. A. K. HUNTINGTON , the first use of dry gelafine films , sen- bitised with silver bromide , for photographing ultra-violet spectra ; and the application of the almost continuous spectrum emitted by the metals iron , nickel , and copper to the purpose of examining the ultra.violet absorption spectra of organic compounds .
These researches , up to the present*time , have been prosecuted under considerable disadvantages , owing to the impossibility of describing accurately either absorption or emission spectra , by reason of the data for calculating wave-lengths bein unfortunately insufficient .
The object of this work is to give an exact description of the photographed spectra ofsome sixteen elementary substances , and to place on record the wave-lengths of so large a number of well-defined metallic lines , together with such other measurements of spectra , that subsequent workers may experience no difficulty in constructing interpolation curves capable of yielding fairly accurate numbers representing wave-lengths .
The first measurements of rays of high refrangibility made by means of photography were the determinations of the wave-lengths of the lines of cadmium by M. MASCART ( Annals de l'Ecole Normale , ' vol. iv .
, 1867 ) .
He made use of a NOBERT'S grating , a goniometer , and a photographic eye-piece .
In addition to the splendid map of the ultra-violet portion of the solar spectrum given us by M. CORNU , we have wave-lengths most carefully calculated for a series of lines in the spectra of the metals cadmium , magnesium , aluminium , and zinc Annals de l'Ecole Proc. Roy .
Soc. , xxxi .
, pp. 1-26 .
Journ. Chem. Soc. , xxxix .
, pp. 57-60 , and .
] ; xxxvii .
, pp. 676-678 , \amp ; c. Normale , ' vol. , 1880 ; and 'Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Geneve , ' ( 3 ) , ii .
, pp. 119-126 ) .
Messrs. LlVEING and DEWAR , with an improved goniometer and a RUTHERFURD grating , have estimated the wave-lengths of the lines of carbon by a modification of MASCART'S method ( Proc. Roy .
Society , vol. xxxii .
, 1882 ) .
As each line must be cussed independently of the rest of the spectrum and photographed on a different plate , and as the relative positions of the lines on the photographs are varied by very slight alterations in focus and by the removal and replacement of the plates , we have been led to apprehend that there are grave objections to this method of manipulation .
The process , moreover , appears to be a lengthy one .
In accordance with these views , which are the result of long experience , we have preferred to employ a method similar to that of CORNU .
As much of each spectrum as possible is photographed on one plate , and together with this a series of ideal lines or plain reflections of the slit , each corresponding to a measured angular deviation , from which a scale of waye-lengths may be calculated .
The nstruments .
\mdash ; For the production of spectra we have used one of Mr. RUTHER- small diffraction gratings .
This was mounted on a stand made six years ago by Mr. BROWNING , the telescope and collimator of which are fixed , and the movable .
A tangent screw is used to give an angular motion to the grating , and measurements are made upon a divided arc of 9 inches radius .
The position of the grating can be fixed at any required angle without the necessity of clamping .
The original telescope and collimator fitted with glass lenses were removed from the stand , and replaced by a collimator and two lenses of 36 inches focus for the lines .
The material of the lenses was quartz , one of right- the other of left-handed rotation .
Unless the lenses are approximately of the same thickness and correct one another , all fairly strong lines , whether produced by a prism or grating , are liable to be doubled , that is to say , accompanied by faint images resembling the " " ghost that are seen when strong lines are viewed with a RUTHERFURD grating .
The distance of the lenses from the grating was about 3 inches .
Their considerable focal length gives an approximately flat field over a wide range of the spectra .
Instead of a telescope , the otograp i camera described in the Scientific Prooeedings of the Royal Dublin Society , vol. .
Description of the Instruments and Processes employed in Photographing Ultra-violet Spectra 1881 , W. N. HARTLEY ) was altered and adjusted for use with the grating .
The table upon it was supported consisted of a large and massive slab of slate , immovably set upon solid stone foundations .
In taking photographs from metallic electrodes , it is of some importance that the spark be always in exactly the same position with regard to the slit , otherwise the relative positions of the lines are liable to variation ; we have , therefore , always used an electrode of cadmium immovably fixed opposite to the slit , the other of metal *It may be mentioned that the best method for the determination of wave.lengths , and the precautions to be taken with regard to the accurate measuring of the positions of the lines , the subject of several moDths ' investigation by one of the authors , W. N. H. ON THE MEASUREMENTS OF WAVE-LENGTHS .
being on the same stand below it , the by which they were held being capable of such motion that they could be renewed or replaced without disturbance of the fixed cadmium point .
The image of the spark was projected on to the slit by a lens of 3 inches focus , which was also immovably fixed .
All lines photographed could be measured with reference to those in the spectrum of cadmium .
The slit of the collimator , which was not more than of an inch in width , was protected from dust by bein covered with a thin plate of quartz .
Photographs were taken of the first order , both to the right and to the left of the plain reflection of the sIit .
The average period of exposure was an hour to an hour and a half .
The spectrum of one order overlaps that of another , but this is of no consequence , because the lenses being uncorrected for chromatic aberration , and the spectra of different orders having different foci , only one image is visible on the developed plate .
The developer used was made with pyrogallic acid and potassium bromide .
Method of measuring the spectra.\mdash ; When a series of photographs had been obtained , the distances between the lines of the various spectra were accurately measured by means of a microscope and a dividing engine with a screw 30 inches in length .
The arrangement by which a forward motion only is given to the screw was thrown out of gear , and a divided wheel , 4 inches in diameter , with a handle attached , was placed at the opposite end of the screw .
Each division on the wheel as it passed the pointer registered a longitudinal motion of the stage equal to of an inch , and it was easy to read to .
The measurements were certainly accurate to of an inch even when working on lines of different intensities .
The microscope , which was placed on the stand of the machine , had a magnifying power of 25 diameters .
Less than this is insufficient , and more is unsatisfactory , except in special cases .
A plate-glass stage was fitted to the carrier of the dividing engine , and by means of screw clamps the aphs were secured to this .
The photographs must be so adjusted that a line passing from end to end of the spectrum and dividing it into two parts longitudinally lies parallel to the axis of the screw , otherwise the lines will not all occupy the same position with respect to the cross lines in the ] of the microscope .
Again , it is necessary that the photographs be taken on patent plate-glass so as to present a perfectly flat surface , and the plates are more suitable if selected with regard to equality of thickness at each end .
Such curvature as is ordinarily to be seen in flattened crown-glass would yield inaccurate measurements , and if the plates be not of the same thickness throughout , the two ends of the spectrum , when the plate was in position on the glass stage , would not be in the same horizontal plane , and so by the motion of the screw the lines of the spectrum would soon travel out of focus .
Freedom from spherical aberration , which facilitates the measurement of the lines , is secured by using lenses of unusually long focus .
Three plates were taken for each spectrum , the first included all rays lying between the cadmium lines 6 and 12 ( and 3249.5 ) , the second included Cd 11 and Cd 18 and , and the third Cd 16 and Cd 26 and .
Between these limits all the lines were accurately focussed .
It will be seen that these plates overlap , so that on one series of photographs a certain number of lines may be measured twice over if necessary .
The accurately measured portions of the spectra were 4 to 5 inches in length on each plate , so that the whole spectrum extended from 12 to 15 inches , and each inch was easily divisible into 10,000 parts .
The measurements of the lines were made when the cross wires coincided with or equally divided the ends of the lines .
This is necessary , as many lines are extremely short and cannot be measured at any other point .
Lines continuous from pole to pole are comparatively few in number .
" " Ghosts\ldquo ; of very strong lines appear in the photographs of diffraction spectra ; they are generally easy of recognition , but should it happen that by reason of a crowd of lines they are not easily distinguishable , they may be eliminated by comparing the action with the prism spectrum .
No metallic line which is not common to both spectra has been measured .
It is difficult to identify the lines rendered by a prism spectroscope when the original photographs only are examined , on account of the necessity of employing the microscope , which enables one to view only a small portion of the spectrum at one time .
For the convenience of identifying the lines and registering their wave-lengths two sets of enlargements have been used , each containing about eight spectra , 36 inches in length .
For the purpose of registering the wave-lengths of the air-lines and the very numerous lines of iron , enlargements 8 feet in have been made .
DETERMINATION 0F WAVE-LENGTHS .
Method of Working.\mdash ; The determination of the wave-lengths of the lines in any photograph becomes very simple if we know the value of their linear positions on the plates in terms of the scale of the goniometer , and so be in a position to find their deviations .
M. CORNU has described a method by which he determined the deviation of some of the lines in his photographs of the ultra-violet solar spectrum .
After photographing a spectrum he moved his plate so as to obtain an impression of the image of the slit on the sensitised film on each side , and very close to the line he wished to measure .
The points on the arc to which the images corresponded being known , the deviation of the line could be determined from them , since the images were sufficiently close together for linear distances between them to be taken as proportional to angular distances .
We have followed the principle of this method .
As stated in the introduction to this paper , after photographing a spectrum , the grating was moved so as to reflect on to the sensitised film a series of images of the slit , corresponding to equi-distant fixed points on the arc of the goniometer .
In this way the spectrum was obtained , together with a number of images of the slit , disposed at regular intervals along its length , the images serving as fiducial lines , the deviations of which were known with all the accuracy afforded by scale of the goniometer .
ON THE MEASUREMENTS OF WAVE-LENGTHS .
The wave-lengths corresponding with these deviations were calculated , and those of the spectral lines were determined from them by interpolation .
Calculation of the uave-lengths corresponding to the fiducial lines.\mdash ; For the convenience of future reference the photographs of the three portions of the spectrum for which the plates were focussed , will be designated by the numbers 6-12 , 11-18 , and 17-26 .
These numbers have been assigned to the prominent cadmium lines by MASCART , and they serve to fix the limits of the less and more refrangible ends respectively of each portion of the spectrum .
The grating was placed so that to get the three portions of the spectrum into focus it was only necessary to move the plate-carrier , without shifting either the lens of the camera or the grating itself The calculations of the wave-lengths corresponding to the deviations of the fiducial lines were made from the formula where is positive for the diffracted rays on the same side of the reflec , ted ray as the normal , and negative for those on the othel side , is the deviation of the line reckoned from the normal to the grating , and positive when situated on the same side of the normal as the incident ray ; is the inclination of the normal of the grating to the incident ray .
This is , of course , at once determined from the position of the grating , when its normal is parallel to the incident ray .
This position was found in the following way .
A piece of plate-glass was placed in the small mahogany box at the end of the collimator tube ( for a description of which see the paper already referred to in the Scientific Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society , p. 10 ) in such a way as to allow the light from the slit to pass through it to the grating , and to reflect upwards the image of the slit reflected back from the grating .
The grating was moved about till the image coincided with the slit .
A wide slit was used to ascertain approximately the position of the grating , the slit was then narrowed as far as necessary , and the grating accurately adjusted .
After this adjustment neither slit nor grating was moved during the time the whole of the series of photographs were being taken .
The deviation S , is not measured directly .
One measures or according as the spectrum observed is to the or to the left of the regularly reflected image of the slit .
The following calculation of the wave-lengths corresponding to the fiducial line I. for the spectra to the left will as an example .
Position of grating when the normal was parallel to the incident ray . .
Position of grating when the spectrum was being photographed . .
Point on the arc corresponding to fiducial line I. whence S27o 58 ' 21\ldquo ; Sis negative and is negative , therefore The constant of the grating was determined by means of the sodium lines and of the first and second order of spectra on both sides of the regularly reflected rays , with the following result:\mdash ; Mean The lowing table gives the wave-lengths corresponding to all the fiducial lines , together with their angular measurements .
ON THE MEASUREMENTS OF WAVE-LENGTHS .
changes of temperature such as would very nearly account for the discrepancy in the readings .
Thus , taking the linear coefficient of expansion of wrought iron to be 00000122 for 1o C. , the length of screw to be 20 inches , and the change of temperature , the change in entire length would amount to inch , or in 5 inches , which is about the measured length of each photograph , to .
From this must be deducted the coefficient of expansion of white glass , which amounts to inch , which reduces the error to .
The error is generally an increasing one as the distance from zero increases .
We have taken advantage of our numerous measurements to reduce the error to a minimum : first , by taking the mean of several readings ; secondly , by observing the intervals occurring between the lines and adopting numbers which , while they accord with the progressive increase in these intervals , closely approximate the numbers obtained by measurement .
On comparison of the two sets of figures , it will be found that the mean of all readings and the mean of all adopted numbers agree .
The greatest difference between any two series of mean adopted numbers and mean readings amounts to inch , the average error being inch .
The value of these fractions in wave-length for any portion of the spectrum is not greater than tenth-metre for the less refrangible , and probably as little as for the more refrangible rays .
A difference in the linear measurements of the fiducial lines could occur by an unequal contraction of ] gelatine film on drying .
This was never the case with our plates for the reason that the central portion of each film only was used , the films were dry when the photographs were taken , and would presumably remain in the same position on the glass after developing unless some artificial mode of desiccation were employed , such as the elimination of water by steeping in alcohol .
This latter method was never resorted to .
In the case of the photographs of the spectra to the right of the reflected image of the slit , one series of numbers , those of zinc , do not satisfactorily show the same relation between their intervals can be traced between those of the other two ] ates , thallium and magnesium .
images on these photographs are not so sharp , and present a greater difficulty in measurement than those on the spectra to the left .
That the numbers adopted for the zinc plate are fairly correct is evident from the values determined for the cadmium lines .
The apparently greater dispersion of the portion 17-26 than of the portion 11-18 , and of the latter than of 6-12 , is due to the varying inclination of the to the axis of the camera lens .
The plates , when in focus for the portion 6-12 , were but slightly if at all inclined , while the plates including 11-18 and ) were taken a very considerable inclination ; the inclination for the latter bemg the greater .
A screen of cardboard was placed in front of the upper half of the slit when photographing the fiducial lines , in order to prevent them obscuring the spectral lines below to which they referred .
When the reflections of the slit were too diffuse it was found advantageous to photograph four or five spectra on one plate , the photographs of the slit falling on the uppel.most spectrum only , any error arising from adjustment of the pIates for the reception of the different spectra being corrected by means of the cadmium lines .
The fiducial lines of the portions 6-12 were sufficiently close together for distances between any two of them to be taken as proportional to wave-lengths , with a maximum of about tenth-metre .
Owing , however , to the inclination of the plates for the other two portions of the spectrum , the error in taking the distances as proportional to wave-lengths was too large ; three points were therefore interpolated between each pair of fiducial lines .
This was easily accomplished , as the intervals between the reflections were simply related to one another .
The maximum error of the curves constructed with the fiducial lines and the interpolated points was about to tenth-metre for the portions 11-18 and 17-26 respectively .
Corrections were made for the latter error with the plates 17-26 .
The curves were constructed on millimetre paper , 4 millims. were allowed for each difference of a tenth-metre of wave-length and 1 millim. for each two-thousandth of an inch of the scale numbers .
The lengths of the cadmiurn lines .
As stated in the introduction to this paper , on taking photographs from metallic electrodes an electrode of cadmium was always used to ish a spectrum in reference to which all other spectra could be measured .
In the adjoining table will be found the values we have adopted for the wave-lengths of the cadmium lines , together with the numbers afforded by each plate employed in their determination .
The latter numbers , it will be seen , do not give the true wave-lengths , but require a small correction , which will be found in the table .
The correction for the numbers calcu- lated for the lines 12 , 17 , 18 , on the portion 11-18 , from photographs of spectra on either side of the reflections of the slit , are shown by the table to be as nearly as pos- sible and tenth-metres , of negative sign for the spectra to the right and positive sign for those to the left .
Guided by these corrections , and owing to the fact that the lines 12 occur also on the photographs of the portion , the lines 17 and 18 on the photographs of the portion 17-26 , the corrections for the remaining lines have been deduced .
Thus , for the portion 17-26 the corrections for the lines 17 , 18 were found to be and respectively , and a correction of was consequently made to remaining lines of this portion of the spectrum .
In a like manner the corrections for the lines of the portion 6-12 were found .
The explanation of the necessity of these corrections will be given later on , when consideling the errors introduced by uncorrected lenses .
When the corrections in the preceding tables are seen to vary slightly it is owing to small errors which are introduced by the re-adjustment of the grating .
The corrections applicable to each spectrum are found ) converting the values obtained for the cadmium lines given by the fixed electrode into the wave-lengths given above .
In the following tables the wave-lengths of a number of lines are compared with measurements of previous observers .
That these numbers agree in a very satisfactory manner gives us some confidence in our method of working and in the probable accuracy of the -lengths we have adopted for the cadmium lines , as derived from our several measurements .
With the exception of the lines , and the triple group , our numbers agree well with those of M. CORNU , but at these points the difference is considerable .
We have carefully measured these lines directly and we are inclined to consider our numbers correct .
M. CORNU did not directly measure these lines , but derived the numbers he has given from a comparison of his photographs with his map of the solar spectrum .
But the reason why the wave-lengths we have given are probably the more correct lies in the fact that about this region there many iron lines , and our measurements of iron agree with those of M. CORNU , while , if our cadmium lines departed from accuracy as far as they differ from those of M. CORNU , this difference would occur in the iron lines .
COMPARISON of the wave-lengths of lines from the spectrum of cadmium .
No. 8 is an air line .
Nos. 9 and 10 we discovered to be doublets , but the numbers here given are those assigned to the more refrangible lines of each .
No. 12 is a triple group ; this fact was recognised by M. CORNU .
The wave-lengths of two iron lines close to this group are the lowing : CORNU .
HARTLEY and ADENEY .
PROFESSOR W. N. HARTLEY AND MR. W. E. ADENEY comparable one with the other , he had to make a correction tenth-metre to those obtained by the latter means .
An explanation of this be found in M. CORNU'S paper .
Third.\mdash ; The erlor arising from the adjustment of the grating to its position for photographing the spectrum .
This does not exceed tenth-metre , and , it should be noted , appears in all the measurements of the plate .
This may be eliminated by taking the mean of the measurements of the cadmium lines .
Fourth.\mdash ; The error in the measurements arising from change of temperature affecting the dividing engine .
This is within for well defined lines , and it is always corrected by the cadmium lines .
The errors of observation in the measuring of lines are also , for well-defined lines , at most The first and second errors .
are of opposite sign for the spectra , to right and left of the regular reflection of the slit , and are therefore easily eliminated by taking the mean of the spectra on the two sides .
The wave-lengths given in the accompanying tables are all comparable with one another .
If an error occurs in any of the values for the cadmium lines , it will be common to the lines in that part of the spectrum in which the particular line occurs , and will be easily eliminated .
If the wave-lenghs assigned to the cadmium lines are correct , there are only two errors to which the wave-lengths in the tables that have been calculated from grating spectra are liable .
These are that incurred in the measurement of the lines by the microscope and dividing engine , and that due to the interpolation curve .
The errors of measurement mentioned above are , for welldefined lines , in no case greater than of an inch ; this , in terms of wave-length , equals , and tenth-metres for the portions 6-12 , 11-18 , and 17-26 , respectively .
The error of the interpolation curve is not more , we believe , than tenth-metre .
The maximum for well-defined lines probably does not exceed tenth-metre .
In the case of faint lines , the general error is larger , but it seldom rises to more than .
Thus in the accompanying ] of air lines , the wave-lengths of which were all determined directly by measuring diffraction spectra , two sets of numbers taken from different photographs are given , and the numbers for the following six , which are an very feeble and diffuse lines , and therefore difficult to measure , are the only ones differing by more than the general error:\mdash ; taken to serve as a guide when measuring with the .
In this way , very accurate measurements were obtained , even of lines that could not possibly have been measured otherwise .
Nearly all lines given in the accompanying tables , up to and .
a wave-length of 2265 , have been measured from grating spectra .
Between 2265 and , the very well marked lines only were measured from the grating spectra .
The numbers not obtained from grating spectra for the other lines given in the tables were determined by means of an interpolation curve , constructed from measurements taken from prism spectra .
The curve was laid down on millimetre paper , four millimetres being allowed for each difference of a tenth-metre in wave-length , and one millimetre for each of an inch of difference in the scale numbers .
The wave-lengths were taken as normals , and the scale numbers as abscissae ; the aggregate length of the curve from to 2020 was about nine metres .
The spectra were taken from one quartz prism of , composed of two halves each of , one of right-handed and the other of left-handed rotation .
The prism was fixed for the minimum angle of deyiation of the cadmium line , and the photographs were similar to those published in the Journal of the Chemical Society ( Transactions , vol. , p. 85 , W. N. HARTLEY ) .
In the tables , besides the wave-lengths , the scale numbers from the prismatic spectra are in every case given .
These numbers are expressed in hundredths of an inch and fractions thereof .
The numbers for the metals are strictly comparable with each other , since the measurements from each spectrum have been reduced to a standard spectrum of an alloy of tin and cadmium .
This was accomplished in the way .
The spectrum of each al was photographed with that of the tin-cadmium alloy .
The same electrode of the alloy was employed for all the spectra , and was not moved during the time the whole series was being photographed .
An alloy of tin-cadmium was used because it gives a large number of well-defined lines , equally distributed .
Notwithstanding the care taken , and that twelve spectra were photographed on the same plate , in only four spectra are the tin and cadmium lines coincident in position .
The mean of the readings for these four spectra was taken for the standard spectrum , and all others were reduced to it by finding the corrections for the tin and cadmium lines , and interpolating corrections for lines between them .
For the construction of the curve , 180 lines from the different spectra were employed .
The whole of these lines were cut by the curve .
A few lines were left a little to the one side or the other , but these are not incIuded in the above number .
The lines employed for the portion of the spectrum beyond the cadmium line were those of zinc , M. CORNU'S numbers for their wave-lengths being made use of .
This portion of the curve was made as continuous as possible with the other .
Not all the points were cut by it , and to this is owing the slight difference between some of the numbers in our table of the zinc lines tbose of M. CORNU , Well defined lines can with certainty be measured to inch ; for weak and indistinct lines the error of measurement amounts to but even with this error most satisfactory determinations can be obtained from the curve .
Great care is necessary in measuring these prismatic spectra .
It is difficult to accurately adjust the cross hairs to the lines , owing to the latter being somewhat , though very slightly , curved ; consequently the readings may not be quite true with reference to the tin and cadmium lines , but either a little too small or a little too large .
The danger of this error is reduced to a minimum if the photographs are taken with the rather close together , or where only strong lines are to be observed by making the spark cross the slit .
In the list of lines given in the tables for each metal , the greatest care has been taken to eliminate those due to foreign metals .
This has been done as completely as by taking a large number of photographs of the spectra of several elements for the purpose of comparison .
In cases of doubt , spectra of very strong solutions of the purest salts were taken .
It has been found that lines due to impurities generally present a decidedly different character to any of the lines due to the metal under examination .
This will be referred to again further on .
The wave-length of every line identified with a given metal has been determined either from the grating or prismatic spectrum .
In the present state of our knowledge this has been thought important .
The short lines of cadmium and zinc , for instance , have not been measured by previous observers ; they are , however , a very characteristic feature in each spectrum .
Certain weak lines do not appear in the diflraction spectra , but are plainly visible in those obtained by means of a prism .
Such lines have been measured with the interpolation curve , and are distinguished in the following tables by their wavelengths being printed in italic figures .
It was originally intended that these should be drawn on the same scale as CORNU'S map of the solar spectrum ; this would have necessitated scales and drawings eight feet in length for each of the sixteen spectra .
The work was actually commenced , but the mapping of every line proved too laborious ; accordingly enlarged photographs of the prism spectra , about thirty-six inches in length , have been utilized by writing the wave-length over each line .
These photographs are intended to serve for particular reference .
In addition , each line has been carefuly described , and its position on the photographed spectra has been very carefully determined and recorded in the scale numbers .
For the purposes of chemical analysis , small maps and actual photographs , showing the characters of the lines , are of most value , and accordingly the principal lines have been drawn on the scale of wave-lengths on sheets of a size convenient for reference and comparison with a series of prism photographs ten inches in length .
The scale numbers refer to spectra of about one-half these dimensions .
Should it be found necessary at any time to rectify any of the wave-lengths given in this paper , may be easily accomplished by the use of an interpolation curve , derived from the scale mbers and true wave-lengths .
In all cases where the wave-lengths on the maps differ from the numbers in the tables the latter must be considered as the more correct , the drawings being on too small scale to admit of great accuracy , and moreover some of the numbers were slightly altered after the maps had been drawn .
DESCRIPTIONS 0F SPECTRA AND TABLES 0F WAVE-LENGTHS .
Full particulars concerning the method of producing the prism spectra , together with an account of the electrodes employed , have been already published in the Scientific Transactions of the Royal Dublin Society , and the characters of the various lines observed is there defined .
A peculiar feature of certain lines in the spectra of cadmium and indium has been observed , we believe , for the first time by us .
The lines are continuous lines , but they do not extend from the point of one electrode to the other , but occupy only an intermediate position , commencing and terminating at some distance from the metallic points .
A similar character is observable in certain air lines , when strong metallic lines occur in proximity on either side .
In both air lines and metallic lines the central portions become stronger , and the ends fade away as the temperature is increased .
Lines which show this in a marked degree are those of indium with wave-lengths , and that of cadmium with wave-length In a less remarkable manner the following lines represent this character in cadmium : , 28 , ; in indium , , and .
Air lines altered by the proximity of metallic lines are the following : , 30070 , and

