]\gt ; 1882 .
] Mr. S. A. Hill .
On Radiant Heat .
March 23 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' On the Constituent of the Atmosphere that Absorbs Radiant Heat .
II By S. A. HILL , Meteorological Reporter , NorthWest Provinces and Oudh .
Communicated by General STRACHEY , , C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1882 .
General Strachey has suggested to me that with the data given in my first paper we may arrive at a numerical reiation between the absorptive powel .
S of dry air and aqueous vapour , instead of being content with merely showing that vapour is by far the most active constituent of the atmosphere in this respect .
The followlng calculations , worked out on the lines suggested by him , indicate that the dry has a small and , as far as we can judge , invariable effect in the way of absorption , while the effect watel vapoul .
is large and In other words , the air probably exercises a feeble absorption over the whole range of the spectrum , while the absorption due to water vapour is selective , and probably varies in amount with of the adiation from day to day .
Starting with Pouillet 's formula , where stands for the atmospheric thickness and the fraction of the total radiation that lvould penetrate vertically an atmosphere of unit thickness , we may take to be made up of two factors , and , one of epresents the diathermancy of the air amd the other that of vapour .
The masses of dry air and water vapour traversed by the rays will be respectively proportional , though not in same ratio , to the barometric pressure*and the vapoul tension .
Taking the length an oblique ray through any atmospheric stl.atum to be proportional to , we thus arrive at the formula in which and stand for the fractions of the total heat transmitted through atmospheres composed respectively of dry air and aqueous *That is to say , approximately to the pressure .
It not do to deduct the vapour tension from the pressure , the vapour thins out as we ascend much more rapidly than the air does .
436 .
S. A. Hill .
On Radiant .
[ Mar. vapour , and which , with the law of vertical distribution defined by the simultaneous observations at Mussooree and Dehra , would each produce a pressure equal to one inch of mercury .
From the observations of the 12th November , 1879 , given at page 218 of my previous paper , we get the following equations:\mdash ; Mussooree . . . .
Dehra . . . . . . .
; and from the observations of the 14th we get:\mdash ; Mussooree . . .
Dehra . . . . . .
These givs the following results:\mdash ; Date .
12th . . . . . . . .
99856 76080 23970 14th . . . . . . . .
99855 69536 30464 The absorption due to dry air of one inch pressure seems therefore to be almost riable and equal to only 1445 per cent. of the total radiation\mdash ; a quantity that could hardly be measured in laboratory experiments ; while that due to water vapour of equal pressure varies between 24 and 30 per cent. ( perhaps between much wider mits ) and is equal , on the mean of the two days ' observations .
to per cent. In an atmosphere of dry air at 30 inches pressure the absorption would be , or about per cent. of the total radiation .
The fraction of the total heat that is absorbed by dry air , though in most cases very small in comparison with that absorbed by the vapour , seems therefore to be an appreciable quantity , and , if the tension of vapour at sealevel were only of an inch or less , the dry air would have the greater effect of the two .
Since the quantities of air ( Q ) and vapour in a vertical column of given sectional area are in the ratio , where and are the constants of the logarithmic formulae for vertical distribution , the absorptive powers for equal masses of the two gases will be in the ratio .
Water vapour has , thersfore , times the absorptive powel .
possessed by air for the kind of radiation emitted from the sun on the 12th and 14th November , 1879 .
As a very large proportion of the total solar radiation is luminous , and since water , both in the liquid and in the gaseous state , transmits the greater part of the luminous iation , the relative diathermancy of dry air for radianlt energy proceeding from sources at a lower temperature mnst be very much greater still .
1882.On the Influence of Coal-dust in Colliery Explosions .
437 I regret that , up to the present , ave I have been unable to procure a trical observations that would serve to record of any other nome test the correctness of these results .
II .
' On the Influence of Coal-dust in ] ery Explosions .
No. By W. GALLOWAY Communlcated by ROBERT H. .
SCOTT , F.R.S. Received December 29 , 1881 .
In the concluding pages No. aper , now in the hands of the Royal Society , I described an apparatus the essen a tial arts of which consist of a wooden gallery about 126 ee 26 feet lon by 2 feet square , and a sheet iron cylinder about 6 feet long by 2 fee in diameter ; and , at account of the expel.iments the same time , I gave a short genera that had been made with up to that date , intending to resume the subject on some future occas.ion .
It will be rememberedd.tin that the experiment was made by mlxlng together an ng a small quantity of fire-damp and air in the sheet iron cylinder called the " " that the resulting burst through a " " explosion chamber ' ; paper diaphragm which separated he explosion chamber from the an -wave ; that the in passing wooden gallery and create an alr- through the gallery swept up coal-dust from oo he floor and from certain shelves placed at given points in it ; an , as lastl that the flame of the original fire-damp explosion traversed the loud of coal-dust and air to a greater or less distance from the During the warm dry weather preval lng between the 14th and of July last , I made sixty-three further exper men ts which convenience may be separated into the three following well-definec groupsI .
Fifteen to ascertain how far the flame of the mixture of fire damp and air contained in the explosion chamber would extend the wooden gallery in the absence of every trace of coal-dust .
th II .
Thirty-eight to ascertain how far the flame produce same manner and under the same conditions as in the preceding cas would extend into a cloud of coal-dust and pure , create th action of the air-wave in its passage through the wooden gallery .
III .
Ten to ascertain the effects due to the exploslon of small heap of blasting powder placed at given points in the wooden the conditions being exactly the same as in the last case .
In each experiment the fire-damp was carefully .
and accurate measured by water displacement in a special cylinder ca lled tk measuring cylinder in the two preceding pers .
No fire-damp cou enter any part of the apparatus hout first passing throug tk measuring cylinder , and being thence transferred into explosic chamber .
As has been previously stated , also the licbmb

