146 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Rotation of Plane of a volt , but slowly rose again to nearly its original value as the f1 evaporated .
This shows that the electrification was not a tempor^ one of the glass surface , for that would not have returned to* definite value .
Heating the plate by radiation or washing the g]s with benzol caused the potential to rise further , but in no case the potential quite so high as when the plate was first formed .
4L even more convincing proof that the potential measured was rea-that of the sodium , was found in the fact that the sensibility of t\gt ; apparatus was such as would be given by a plate the size of i sodium .
If the electrification had been on the whole surface of t glass , the sensibility , on account of the larger surface , would ha been at least ten times as great as that observed .
S 85 .
The experiments described in this chapter show that | when two metals are coated with the same non-conductor , such wax or glass , their potential is not sensibly different from that oft bare metals in air ; ( ii ) that temperature-variation still takes pla\lt ; though air be excluded .
These results seem to prove that gaseo films play no essential part in the phenomenon .
On the Rotation of Plane of Polarisation of Electric Wav by a Twisted Structure .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bos M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , President College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleig : F.R.S. Received February 14 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1898 .
j In my previous papers* I have given accounts of the doub refraction and polarisation of electric waves produced by variot \#166 ; crystals and other substances , and also by strained dielectrics .
A account was there given of the polarisation apparatus with which the effects were studied .
In the present investigation effects ha to be studied which were exceedingly feeble .
The apparatus ha therefore , to be made of extreme sensitiveness ; but the secondar isturbances became at the same time more prominent , and the grea 1_ Cult^ \#174 ; xperieneed was in getting rid of these disturbances .
In one of my communications I alluded to the fact that these secondary disturbances are to a great extent reduced when the radia tois are made small .
The advantage of a large radiator is the com parative ease with which the receiver can be adjusted to respond 1 t e waves , but this advantage is more than counterbalanced by th increased difficulty with the stray radiation and other disturbance ; * " On the Polarisation of the Electric Ray by Double-refracting Crystals , Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , ' May , 1895 , and " On a New Electro polanscope , " ' The Electrician , ' December 27 , 1895 .
Polarisation of Electric Waves by a Twisted Structure .
147 u the other hand , with small radiators , the difficulty is in the oper adjustment of the receiver .
It then becomes necessary to ve very exact adjustments of the receiver , both as regards the assure to which the sensitive spirals are subjected and the E.M.F. rfcing- on the circuit .
It is only after some practice that the culiarity of each receiver is properly understood , when it becomes \lt ; sy to make the necessary adjustments by which the receiver comes quite certain in action .
For various reasons the radiations aitted by small radiators are more favourable for work requiring .eat delicacy .
In order that the surface of the radiator should be little affected t the disintegrating action of the sparks , I use a single spark for .oducing a flash of radiation .
There used to be , however , some icertainty from a discharge occasionally failing to be oscillatory , he cause of this uncertainty is ascribed to the deposit of dust on the larking surface .
For greater certainty of action some observers merse the radiator in oil .
The use of oil is under any circum-ances troublesome .
This is specially so in polarisation experiments , hen the radiator has to be placed in different azimuths .
I have for less reasons avoided the oil-immersion arrangement , and have tried \gt ; secure certainty of oscillatory discharge without this expedient , ttention was specially paid to the coil and the primary break . .
radiator has also been constructed which is found to be extremely fficient .
It consists of two platinum beads , each 2 mm. in diameter , eparated by 03 mm. spark-gap .
There is no interposed third ball , 'his radiator , though kept exposed for days without any protecting over , was yet found to give rise to a succession of effective ischarges without a single failure .
I even went so far as to pour a tream of dust on the radiator , in spite of which severe treatment , he sparks were found to be quite effective in giving idse to electric scillation .
The receiver , too , is perfectly certain in its action , and various iegrees of sensitiveness may be given to it .
In the following xperiments , the sensitiveness had to be very greatly enhanced , and his , as alluded to above , was secured by proper adjustments .
The econdary disturbances were got rid of by careful screening .
But me serious difficulty was encountered at the very outset , in the ailure of the polariser to produce complete polarisation .
In my first 'xperiments on polarisation ( the receiver then used not having been very sensitive ) , polarisers made of wire gratings were found effective .
But in my later experiments with still more sensitive receivers , 1 found that , owing probably to the want of strict parallelism of the vires and the difficulty of exactly crossing the analyser and polariser , it was impossible to produce total extinction of the field .
I then made a polariser and analyser by cutting parallel slits out of two 148 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Rotation of Plane of square pieces of thick copper .
When the square pieces were adji\amp ; t| with coincident edges , the analyser and polariser were either exto-parallel or exactly crossed .
This improvement enabled me to ( to-put successfully some of the more delicate experiments .
IQt present course of investigation the sensitiveness of the receiver h to be raised to a still higher extent , and it was found that ti polariser hitherto found efficient failed to produce complete polaris tion , so that even when the polariser and the analyser were exact : crossed the non-polarised portion of radiation was of sufficie intensity to produce strong action on the receiver .
In the paper " On the Selective Conductivity exhibited by son Polarising Substances " * I described a book-form of polariser , when an ordinary book was shown to produce polarisation of the tran mitted beam , the vibrations parallel to the pages being absorbed , an those at right angles transmitted in a polarised condition .
Th advantage of this form of polariser was that the extent to which th rays were polarised depends on the thickness of the polarisin : medium .
The rays could thus be completely polarised by giving Eb medium a sufficient thickness , this thickness being determined by th intensity of the radiation used and the sensitiveness of the receiver e necessary thickness of the book-polariser may be materially decreased by making the book consist of alternate leaves of paper anc m oil .
I he book being then strongly compressed , blocks of suitable are cu out to form the polariser and the analyser .
Each of these 'C ^ , lkJ en \#174 ; ncl'sed in a brass cell , with two circular openings on pposi e si es or the passage of radiation .
The size of the polariser use is x cm .
, with a thickness of 4*5 cm .
; the aperture is n lameter .
Tnese polarising cells I find to be quite efficient ; guished^0 SU ' ce^s are crossed , the field is completely extin- Fie ' L Polarisation apparatus .
B , the radiating box ; P , the pclariser ; A , the analyser ; S , S ' , the screens ; It , the receiver .
# ' Hoy .
Proc. Soc. , ' vol. 60 .
Polarisation of Electric Waves a Twisted Structure .
149 The diagram explains the general arrangement of the apparatus , , unted on an optical bench .
The spark gap of the radiator is .izontal .
The polariser , with the leaves vertical , is placed on a .elf attached to a screen of thick brass plate 35 X 35 cm .
In the itre of the plate there is a circular opening 4 cm .
in diameter ; .
s aperture may be varied by a series of diaphragms .
There is a jond similar screen with a shelf for the analyser , which is placed th the leaves horizontal .
Behind the analyser is the receiver .
In the space between the brass plates is placed the substance to be amined .
Previous tests are made to see whether all disturbing uses have been removed .
The sensitiveness of the receiver is casionally tested by interposing one 's fingers at 45 ' between the ossed polariser and analyser ; this should , by partially restoring le field , produce strong action , provided the receiver is in a fairly nsitive condition .
Care should be taken that there are no metallic masses between le screens , as reflection from metals is found to produce " depolari-ition , " the rajs being then elliptically polarised .
The substance to e examined should not , for very delicate experiments , be held by the and , owing to the disturbing action of the fingers .
It is preferable ) have the substances supported on stirrups made of thin paper , he above are some of the main precautions to be taken in carrying ut the following experiments , where .the effects to be detected are ery small and therefore likely to be masked unless all disturbing auses are carefully excluded .
I have in a previous communication made mention of the double .efracting property of fibrous substances like jute .
The field is .estored when a bundle of jute is placed at 45 ' between the crossed jolariser and analyser .
There is , however , no depolarisation effect vlien the axis of the bundle is parallel to the direction of the ray .
I now took three similar bundles , A , B , and C , of parallel fibres of ute 10 cm .
in length and 4'5 cm .
in diameter .
No change was made a the bundle A , which was kept as a test one .
The bundles B and 0 were then twisted , B in a right-handed direction and C in a left-banded direction .
The interposition of the untwisted bundle A between the crossed polariser and analyser did not produce any effect , but strong action was produced in the receiver when the bundles , twisted to the right or to the left , were so interposed .
It thus appeared as if the twisted structures produced an optical twist of the plane of polarisation .
The further experiments to be described below may be of some interest in connection with the optical rotation produced by liquids .
Here two different classes of phenomena may be distinguished .
( 1 ) The rotation induced by magnetic field ; this rotation among 150 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Rotation of Plane of other things is dependent on the direction and intensity of magnetic field , and is doubled when the ray is reflected back .
( 2 ) The rotation produced by saccharine and other solutioi when the rotation is equal in all directions and simply proportioi to the quantity of active substance traversed by the ray ; the rotten in this case is neutralised when the ray is reflected back .
The difficulties in the way of explaining the rotation produced !
liquids are summarised in the following extract .
" It is , perhaps , not surprising that crystalline substances shoul on account of some special molecular arrangement , possess rotate ] power , and affect the propagation of light within the mass in manner depending on the direction of transmission .
The loss of th power when the crystalline structure is destroyed , as when quartz i fused , is consequently an event which would be naturally expectec but the possession of it in all directions by fluids and solutions , i\#171 ; which there can not be any special internal arrangement of the mas of the nature of a crystalline structure , is not a thing which on would have been led to expect beforehand .
To Faraday it appeared to be a matter of no ordinary difficulty , and I am not aware that am explanation of it has ever been suggested .
It is just possible tha , the light , m traversing a solution in which the molecules are free tc move , may , on account of some peculiarity of structure , cause the molecules to take up some special arrangement , so that the fluid becomes as it were polarised by the traiismission of the light , in a manner somewhat analogous to that in which a fluid dielectric is polarised in a field of electrostatic force."* In order to imitate the rotation produced by liquids like sugar solutions , I made small elements or " molecules " of twisted jute , of wo vaneties , one kind being twisted to the right ( positive ) and the er wis e to the left ( negative ) .
I now interposed a number of , e positive variety , end to end , between the crossed polariser and analyser ; this produced a restoration of the field .
The same was case wi ^ t e negative variety .
I now mixed equal numbers of wo varieties , and there was now no restoration of the field , the ... pro need by one variety being counteracted by the opposite rotation produced by the other .
1 r ^ complete neutralisation , it is necessary that the element , .
, Q0 e \#174 ; am size , and that the two varieties should be wis e ( m opposite directions ) to the same amount .
The experi-en was repeated in the following order , to avoid any uncertainty o e possi e variation of the sensitiveness of the receiver ; Ihe receiver is adjusted to a particular sensitiveness , and as long as no is ur e by the action of radiation , the sensitiveness re mams cons ant .
A mixture of opposite elements is first interpose^ * Preston , * On Light/ 2nd ed. , p. 421 .
Polarisation of Electric Waves b\j a Structure .
151 ie receiver continuing to remain unaffected .
From the mixture of jsitive and negative varieties , one set , say the negative , is now ipidly withdrawn , and an equal number of positive substituted , he receiver which has not been disturbed since its first adjustment now found to respond , all the elements conspiring to produce otation in the same direction .
It will be seen that the two experiments are carried out under identical conditions .
_ , In the above , we have electro-optic analogues of two varieties of Ucar\#151 ; dextrose and levulose .
There is also the production of an / pparently inactive variety by the mixture of two active ones .
It is to be noted that there is no polarity in the elements , m the sense we use the term in reference to , say , magnetic molecules .
There is nothing to distinguish one end of the jute element from the other end ; indeed a right-handed element would appear right-handed when looked at from either end .
It thus happens that if the rotation is determined by the direction of the twist , two molecules o t e same variety will always conspire , whether they are arranged as or , to take the extreme case , as ah , dc ( with the second mo ecu e reversed ) .
The assumption of any particular arrangement oi molecules is thus not necessary in explaining the rotation .
I he average effect produced by a large number of active elements interspersed in an inactive medium will thus be the same m all directions , and proportional to the number of molecules traversed by the ray .
jis there is no polarity in the molecule , a right-handed element wi always produce the same kind of rotation , say , to the right o an observer travelling with the ray .
The rotation produced when the ray is reversed by reflection will thus be in an opposite direction , an a will np.ntralise each other .
Fio .
2.\#151 ; Jute elements .
Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Production " Dark take up a special arrangement like the disposition of molecules magnetised rod .
It is seen that in this case the rotations of t direct and the reflected rajs are in the same direction , and fc resultant rotation is therefore doubled .
There is some * anZ between the action of such polarised molecules and of substaiB which , when placed in a magnetic field , rotate the plane of nX isation .
1 tt * On the Production of a ' Dark Cross ' in the Field of Electrc magnetic Radiation .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh FR8 Received February 14 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1898 .
A mrcular piece of chilled glass when interposed between crossed ^lP7tUCe8v-dark Cr'SS- A 8imilar effect is produced bj prdtl ptnes " ^ disP'sifcion * electeW 2 ?
?- able , t0 detect a simiIar Phenomenon in the field of between th ia 10n y the in^erposition of an artificial structure between the crossed polariser and analyser .
Tyrodnn*r\ vT Ti .
PreV^ous c^mmunication described the polarisation iQ st .
' eaves a ^''^* For the following experiment , a I " " , 'f PaPer was ro11^ into a disc .
A roll of Morse 's tap .
and its th ' ParPosa Vf-rY well .
The diameter of the disc is 14 cut Zlle Jt T Xt Wi " be 'bserred tha ' ^ we have a though the o^teare Sipped ?
plan"^ " d tha ' Pr'du^d hJ the interposition of the structure may be thffiid C Plng : dr fiXed and exPloril , g the different parts 3 fixed InnLt Tr 'f ^ deteCtor ; 'r the Sector may be kept that the different part " o^th 7 ^ may b\#174 ; mOVed about S ' act on the detector This 1 H 8QCCessivelJ be brought to in practice .
Ths latter Plan was adopted as being simpler paper '^On^th^R^ f .
the .
aPParatns is the same as in fig. 1 of my by a Twisted Structure^ ^The^l^ P ' !
arisation of EIectric Waves borizonffll TL j- 6 P'-^aris\#174 ; r IS vertical and the analyser its Zneat Jt papr dlB ' " inferposed between the screens with TherlZ 1 , gbtr\#171 ; , eS * ' the direction of the ray .
1 call the .
1S .
Xedon the Prolongation of the line ( which I shall On the t ' 1 re l 'entreS 0f the Polariser and the analyser .
I dark e\#153 ; 7tTP ' \thf the int\#171 ; position of the disc produces a ark cross , the arms of the cross ( with the particular arrangement I

