]\gt ; Passage of Heat Surfaces iquids .
287 Boiling point , Concentrntion , in in rees a. gram molecules Batio .
per litre .
1.64 0 .
0 .
0 .
1.55 0 .
0 .
1.46 A full discussion bo reserved till a later date , but hcre wo may notice that in all cases the numbers under the : " " Ratio \ldquo ; will be fouud to be of the same as those calculated from th theory of lIcnius ( e.g. , an of type , Cl , when fully , should give a ratio , and of type , ) .
the exceeds the in the case of potassium is great in the case of c.alcium .
The less defined boiling points than the others , for somo reason , and the expcrilllenttl error is at its greatest , bub not great to account the differcncc .
Certain other doductions will bc made from these results others which arc , on a .
occasion .
My special thanks are due to Mr. , for much able / ssistance , to Professol J. J. Thonlson , for to use Cavendish On the of Heat betwccn lIctal Liquids in contact By .
L. TTON , M.Sc .
municated by Professor REYNOLDS , .
Received April 7 lIay 13 , The detet.minatioJl of the rate of transmission of heat from the surface of a heated metal to colder watel in contact with it , or from hot water to a coldcr metal face , is a problem of some importance Mr. T. E. Stanton .
On the Passage of Heat in the theory of boilers and face condensers , but the difficully of experimentally determining this rate and the constants involved , for cases which occur in ordinary practice , great that , as far as the author is , only approximate results have obtaired .
It was pointed out by Peclet tl at in tlJe case of a metal transmitting heat to akr in contact with it , this heat had to be { ransmitted by duction tnroogh a film of water adher.ng to bhe jurface , the hickness of the film depending on the state of of the , i.e. , on the convection of the heated particles of water from the surface .
The determination of this of convection would in most cases be extremely difficult .
Another difticu ] i , s the varying temperature of the surface of any plate giving up heat to a , for in this case the Ijroblem becomes more complicated owing to the conduction of heat from one point of the pJate to another .
For the study of tho subject the best conditions of working would , therefore , seem to be:\mdash ; 1 .
Surface transmilting to water moving over it at a known velocity .
2 .
Temperature of the constant .
The first of the conditions is fulfilled by taking the case of wateln flowing through metal pipes ; and it occurled to the author that the second would be fulfilled by Ihe following method cf king :\mdash ; AB is a thin metal pipe urronnded by a being used as a water jacket .
If hob second , the space between the water , xeantur emean between theab ismit , tedthe jwater atemperature t\ldquo ; emperabure fipee c pipe to the other is small , say not more than C. , we may fairly assume the rabi of the diflerences of temperature between ( jacket-water and and betweeu ( wall and water flowing through is constant for between Metal Snrfac Liqm'ds in contact ith the whoIe of the ) , and hence that temperature of pipe is its length .
In addition to tlJese conclitious , the problem may bc simplified 1 incrL , the ities of the water both pipes and jacket the rClive " " \ldquo ; at the given tcml ) , the value of the velocity , as delermined \mdash ; ; where ] ) lncter of in of atcr , the described in } ditions fnllillcentially of a ibed a ( .oils for the the pipe jacket ' to equired v the quantities of vater .
The used of ) } cm .
, so hat tempcrature could bc delermined from tnre of , and the qnalltity of th ouglt the alls .
ined by a bich was tted , bled t of the pipo to be ithin o-tenth of a .
The initial final jacket mensured becll stand the \ldquo ; } could of of of In the of itld of on the tr could ) experimentally 1ndied .
esul of the nents s hcat a to over it , 1st , indcl ) of .
prcssure of tho ; , is to tho of ) ttlro b and ; 3rd , depcnds on a furlctio]l of he ; 4th , , , , , , , , viscosit of vatcr .
* ' Phil. Trans 1883 , p. 976 .
290 Passag of He JTetal Liquids .
Or , if stlrface , and the heat transmitted , that , where has a value little less thau unity , and varies from to in these experiments .
It is also shown that these results are in accordance with Professor Osborne Reynold 's theory of the couvecbion of heat from a hot surface to cold water flowing over it , this theory that the motionof heat from surface of the pipe follows the same laws as the motion of momentum , so that from Professor Reynold 's equation for the loss of pressure in a pipe , may write down for the slope of ature in the pipe : . .
( 1 ) where weight of unit volume of water , velocity of water along the axis of the pipe , rad ius of pipe , and A constants on the nature of the pipe ; where will depend on the viscosity of the water at the bounding surfacc , through which the heat is transmitted by conductivity .
The experiments show that may be written:\mdash ; 01 ; so that a pipe of length , we have from equation ( 1 ) Experiments have made on pipes of , and cm .
, and , 46 , and cm .
, respectively , at velocities to cm .
per second , and with ranges temperature of from to The values of are very consistent for all experiments made , the extreme variations differing by nob more than 4 per cent. for any one pipe .
The oove case is heat transmibted from the metal surface to watel .
When the flow of heat is from the water to the surface , On the Magnetisation Limit of Iron .
the experiments show that the viscosity of the film of er at the bas a much greatel .
effect , the heat transmitted in this being sibly isely ptional to the mean viscosity of the film .
on the jacket vater confirm this result , so that :\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) here is the of ed from the } value of .
perimental csults , the value of the coefficient is in all cases ilbout per cent. less than the of thus Limit of Iron IIENRY eCeiVCd Apri13 , ' : the lucnce of ture upon tbc lIagnetition of \ldquo ; I ibed a new method of tion 1 of nctic substances , by hicl ] , with a polc of ftll net , a exalted freo of netisation w indicated , ) by the of traction , th had prcviously at netisation limit of deduced my oxpcriments , .
per of section , ib $ppealed to me ab time the extrcme limit well ithin400 lbs. per square I reccntly occasion to repeat with of iron of and ased the li mit sulficicntly placc sult on of an ncalod -iron of scclion , , as nlctsu ) a Olne -gaugc , [ ioco of llloullted for stlspe]sio]l over the rncb descri ) in llly former ) apcr .
cinlcns of vcrc submitted succeHsion to the xclfud by current of 40 anlpe force of :tion by the to the iroll * .
Soc. Proc , ' 1891 , vol. 50 .

