II .
" On the Computation of the Effect of the Attraction of Mountain-masses , as disturbing the apparent astronomical latitude of stations in Geodetic Surveys .
" By GEORGE B. AIRY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received January 25 , 1855 .
The author commences with remarking that his surprise had been excited by the result obtained by Archdeacon Pratt* , namely , that the computed attraction of the elevated country north-east of India considerably exceeds the disturbance which it was sought to explain .
But on consideration the author perceived that this result mighthave been anticipated , on the extensively received supposition that the interior of the earth is a dense fluid or semi-fluid ( which for convenience he calls lava ) , and that the exterior crust floats upon it .
For , he remarks , this crust cannot be supposed at any part to be very high upwards ( as in mountains ) , at least to any great horizontal extent , unless there is a corresponding projection downwards into the lava .
Upon making a numerical calculation , even with the crust ]00 miles thick , it was shown that there would be such a tendency of the table-land to crack and sink in the middle as no cohesion of rocks can resist .
He conceives that the state of the ground may be properly illustrated by-a raft of timber floating on water : if one piece of timber projects higher into air than the others , we are certain that it also projects lower into water than the others .
Assuming this as established , then it is evident that the horizontal attraction of a mountain-mass on a point at a considerable distance is nearly evanescent , because the increase of attraction of the part which is above the general level is sensibly neutralized by the deficiency of attraction below it where the lighter crust displaces the heavier lava .
In like manner , the horizontal attraction of a ship or other floating body is nothing .
But the horizontal attraction upon a near point on the earth 's surface will not vanish , because the mountain which produces the positive attraction is nearer than the lava-displacement which produces the negative attraction : even here , however , the efficient disturbing attraction will be much less than that computed by considering the dimensions of the mountain only .

