VII .
A Letter from Nathaniel Polhill , Esq. Member of Parliament for the Borough of Southwark , to Mr. John Belchier , F. R. S. on Mr. DEBRAW'S Improvements in the Culture of Bees(a ) .
DEAR SIR , Southwark , October 11 , 1777 .
MR. DEBRAW'S paper on bees , which you was so obliging as to procure me , has afforded me much pleasure .
As a farther discovery of the nature and operations of these wonderful insects , it is a matter of great curiosity , and must have been an high entertainment to the naturalist who has made them the object of his attention ; but with me , the merit of his publication does not end here : his discoveries , if properly pursued , may be of considerable public utility ; those who cultivate bees for profit will now be able to increase the number of their stocks at pleasure , by adopting his method of compelling the commons to produce a queen .
That the working bees should be capable of forming a queen in the manner he describes , I own at first staggered my belief ; and although the experiments ( a ) See Philosophical Transactions , vol. LXVII .
p. 15 .
P2 appeared Read Jan. 22 , appeared to be decisive , yet , as the whole depended on his veracity , I could not be satisfied without making him a visit .
I found him modest , sensible , and communicative , and have had as much ocular proof as the season of the year would admit .
In short , I am convinced of the fact , but not less at a loss to account for it .
The next discovery is the use of the drones : every one who has written on the subject has given some opinion concerning them , but all very unsatisfactory .
Many have acknowledged their ignorance ; and some have absolutely pronounced them useless , and recommended their being destroyed , to prevent an unnecessary waste of honey : even BUTLER , in his Feminine Monarchy , or History of Bees , which he calls a book written from experience , describes a drone-trap , which he recommends to be used for that purpose : and it is at this time so general an opinion amongst the bee-masters in this kingdom , that I am persuaded , nothing but the trouble and difficulty of catching them prevents many from ruining their stocks of bees by this means : I speak now from knowledge ; some years since I lost a strong colony by giving the experiment a fair trial .
I can also confirm his account of the existence of drones no larger than the common bees , having by accident discovered them last Midsummer in one of my boxes ; DEBRAW says , the reason of this difference in the size of drones he fears must remain among the arcana of nature ; but I will venture a conjecture from the general oeconomy of those creatures .
The large drones consume a great quantity of food , and , as soon as the breeding season is over , are all destroyed by the working bees , evidently to avoid the expense of keeping them : and they do not appear again till the middle of April , when honey is plenty ; though the breeding begins in March , or , if the spring be forward , the latter end of February : from hence I think it may fairly be concluded , that the small drones are preserved to impregnate the eggs in spring , in preference to the large ones , because they devour less honey ; and this is no inconsiderable object , few hives being so well provided as to have much to spare at that season .
The only thing wanting to introduce Mr. DEBRAW'S discoveries to general practice is , to contrive a method of making his experiments so easy , and with so little danger from the stings of the bees , as may recommend it to little farmers and cottagers in the country .
This I shall endeavour to do next summer , and am not without hopes of succeeding : this once effected , every poor man , who has room enough in his garden to place twenty hives , may reasonably expect a profit of at least ten pounds a year , with very little trouble and without any expense .

