]\gt ; !
888 .
] On certain Defnit tegrals .
certain Definitc Integrals .
No. 16 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.B.S. Received , 1888 .
In these papers I have considered incidentally the advantages gained by differentiating and raling with to quantities which indepelldent of the leftding variable .
In the present I enter upon subject more systematically , as it evidently admits of wide extension .
( See No. 88 of this serics .
) This is integral 21 of this serics , where , howeve in the of incgral tall is See integral 22 . .
Sec Abcl , ' Completcs , ' vol. 2 , . .
See integral 116 of his serics .
gain , since Mr H L Russell [ Juue we may if be a rational fraction and , therefore , We know that that is\mdash ; Hence we have Let now be a reIation connecting the two functions and Then , and we may put ) . .
, then making use of the symbol shall obtain 1888 .
] On certain Integrals . .
But Therefore we shall find or As or can have no constant term , all the terms of the expanded form of suitable for the application of the definite integral .
let then so if and . .
find ) and so or if we please ) .
314 Hon. Ralph Abelcromby .
On Heldrum 's Rules If we put in this integral , we shall obtain a fectly correct esuIt .
I discovered the following integral some years ago .
It may been discovered before , although I have been unable to meet it .
From this may bs deduced an enormous number of l.esults , as will be at once apparent .
I will write down two of them .
Now Jet Then T.he first integral was derived from the series \mdash ; . .
, the second from .
VI .
" " On Meldrum 's Rules for handling Ships in the Southern Indian Ocean By BALPH .
Met Soc. Commumcated by B. H. SCOTT , F.B.S. Received June 7 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) results of this paper may be summarised as The author examines critically tain rules given by Mr. Meldrum for handling ships during hurricanes in the South Indiak Ocean , by means.both of published observations and from personal inspection of many unpublished records in aS .
The result confirms the value of Mr. lSIeldrum 's rulel } and the author then develops certain explanations , which have partially given by Meldrum , adds slightly to rules for ]

