PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
November 15 , 1883 .
Professor T. H. HUXLEY , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary-Meeting was given from the Chair .
The Rev. Percival Frost and Mr. Howard Grubb were admitted into the Society .
General Boileau , Professor Crofton , Mr. Hind , Dr. W. Pole , and Dr. Rae , having been nominated by the President , were by ballot elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " MahoniaAquifolia as a Nurse of the Wheat Mildew { Puccinia graminis ) " By CHARLES B. PLOWRIGHT , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Sir J. D. Hooker , F.R.S. Received July 23 , 1883 .
It has always been difficult to account for the widely-spread nature of outbreaks of wheat mildew in districts in which the common barberry is either entirely absent or very uncommon .
In the year 1874 the Rev. James Stevenson found at Glamis , in Forfarshire , an HUcidium upon Mahonia aquifolia , which the Rev. M. J. Berkelev* pronounced to be 2Ecidium berberidis .
In the following year Dr. Paul Magnus t found the same fungus at Lichterfelde , near Berlin , but since that time it does not seem to have been noticed by any one .
On the * Berkeley and Broom , " Annals Not .
Hist. , " Jan. , 1875 .
t ^Magnus , " Botan. Yerein der Prov .
Brandenburg .
Sitzung .
, " 25 Juin , 1S74 .
VOL. XXXVI .
B Mr. C. B. Plowright .
On Mahonia Aquifolia .
[ Nov. 15 , 31st of May , 1883 , Mr. William C. Little , of Stagsholt , March , gave me a freshly gathered specimen of Mahonia aquifolia , upon the berries of which the ^Ecidium was abundant .
Knowing that upon the barberry no less than three different AEcidia occur , I determined to prove by direct experimental culture whether this one was the herberidis of Persoon ( the secidiospore of At 10 p.m. on the evening of the 31st May I placed some of the spores upon the cuticle of some wheat-plants which had been cultivated under a bell-glass .
In eleven days the uredo of graminis made its appearance upon these plants .
The details of this , as well as of two other experiments , are appended .
On the 13th June I placed some of the secidiospores upon a piece of wheat cuticle ; in twelve hours they had germinated , and a little later the germ-tubes were seen entering the stomata , in the same manner as those of herberidis do ( see figure ) .
It is then clear that the AScidium upon Mahonia aquifolia is identical with the yEcidium ( Pers .
) , and is a part of the life-cycle of Puccinia graminis , and is unconnected with the JEcidium magellanicum ( Berk .
) , * and the .ACcidium of Puccinia berberidis ( Mont.).-f " The Mahonia in question is widely cultivated in gardens throughout England and is a favourite evergreen in shrubberies .
It is also extensively planted in woods as a covert for game .
J Experiment 151 .
J\#151 ; Four wheat seedlings , grown in a flower-pot , which have been continuously covered by a bell-glass since the seed was planted ( at the end of April ) , had on 31st May the spores of the ^Ecidium on the fruit of Mahonia aquifolia applied to their green leaves .
The bell-glass was replaced as soon as this was done .
On the 10th of June on two leaves pustules of uredo were observed .
On the 19th these plants were gathered .
Every one of them had the uredo upon it .
Six precisely similar wheat seedlings , planted at the same time and grown under the same conditions , as control plants , were perfectly free from uredo , and remained so up to the present time ( 19th June ) .
Experiment 152.\#151 ; Three wheat-plants , grown by " water culture " in a room in the house , were removed from the bottle in which they were growing and planted in a flower-pot on the evening of the 31st of May .
To their leaves the spores of the ^Ecidium on Mahonia were also applied as in the former experiment .
On the 8th of June the presence of the mycelium of the uredo was iudicated by the appearance of sickly yellow spots upon the leaves , and on the 10th the perfect uredo of Puccinia graminis was developed .
* Hooker , " Flora Antarctica , " vol. ii , p. 450 , PI .
163 , fig. 2 .
f Montagne Gay , " Flor. Chil .
, " VIII , p. 46 .
" Sylloge , " p. 314 .
X The numbers refer to a series of experimental cultures made during the past three years upon the physiology of the Uredines .
1883 .
] Teeth of Sceparnodon Ramsay .
o Spores of iEcidium on Mahonia aquifolia germinating upon the cuticle of a wheat plant : showing the germ-tubes entering the stomata .
Experiment 162.\#151 ; A wheat-plant , grown out of doors in the parish of West Lynn , was placed in a flower-pot in April .
On the 31st of May this plant was removed to my garden , near King 's Lynn , and covered by a bell-glass .
The plant was far more robust and considerably larger than those employed in the former experiments .
On the 2nd of June it was infected with fresh aecidiospores , sent by Mr. Little from Stagsholt .
The bell-glass was removed on the 5th , and on the 10th of June the uredospores of made their appearance .
On the 19th there were thirteen stems of this wheat-plant , about 18 inches in height ; fourteen leaves were affected with uredo .
There were many wheat-plants , of all ages , growing at this time in the garden , but upon no one of them did any Uredo linearis exist .
II .
" Description of Teeth of a large Extinct ( Marsupial ?
) Genus , Sceparnodon Ramsay .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received October 2 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author describes teeth of a new genus of Mammal , representing a species of the size of the Thylacoleo or Nototherium , specimens of which teeth have been discovered in three distinct and remote localities in Australia .
In shape the teeth resemble the scalpriform incisors of the upper jaw of the in the microscopic structure of the dentine there is a nearer resemblance to that in the incisor of the large extinct form of wombat ( lomus ) .
tigures of the teeth , and of their dentinal structure mag-

