VI .
Account of some Particulars iserved during the late Eclzfise of the Sun .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R S. Read January 9 , zy94 IT will be proper to remark that my attention , in obseraring this eclipse , was not directed to the time of the several particulars which are usually noticed in phnomena of this kind ; siuch as the beginning , the end , and the digits eclipsed .
I was very well assured that the care of other astronomers would render my endeavours in that respect perfectly unnecessary .
The only view I had was , to avail myself of the power and distinctness of my telescopes , in order to see whether any appearances would arise that might deserare tc ) be recorded ; and the following particulars will , at least , serve to point out the way for similar observations to be made in other eclipses , where different circumstances may chance to affiord an opportunity for gathering some addition to our kllowledge , with regard to the nature and condition of the moon , or of thessun , and perhaps of both these heaverlly boclies .
Sept. , 1y9S , .
8h 40t g by the clock.* My attention beiI1g directed to the place where I supposed the first impression woul-d be made , I perceived two mountains of the moon enter the disk of the sun , as delineated at a , b , fig. 1 , Tab. VII .
Tl1e:By account , my sidereal time.piece was about 5 ' IJ,7 too forward ; butJ as no aransits had been tately takenX there may be an escs of some sesonds time of their beginning to appear , when I saw them first , might be one or two seconds past .
gh 5t .
7-feet reflector ; power 87 The internal , luminout angle made on the sun , by the intersection of the limb of the moon , nvhlch is now but little more than a rectangley is per:fectly sharp up to the very point .
It tis notin the least disSgured hy the refraction of the lunar atmosphere .
The present shape of the angle , however , is not favourabIe for showing the eSects of that atmosphere .
w ... 9X 17tH7 The lumi ncus angles of the sunvs preceding and fol10WIng limbsn which are now acute , remain perictly sharp .
One of them , indeedn was disEgured , a little while ago , by the erltrance-of a mountaul of the moon but is now restored to its sharpness .
loh , / .
I delineated the appearance of the limb of the moon upon the sun , and found its luountains as in fig. 2 .
At a was a large table mountain , as it may be called , from its flat appearance S atb and c were elevated , ?
ointed rocks .
^ Their appearance changing pretty fastn noPgreat accuracy can be ex pected-in their e-xpress@d relative siDtuation .
I suppose the height of the most elevated of these mountains not to exceed a mile and an half ; for , on dranwing several of them upon the seginent of a large circle , so as to look like what they appeared ahthen projected upon the sunf I found them to be from the 1Sbodth to the 2000dth part of the diameter of that circle .
ThenS putting the moons ( liameter7 aS M. r)E LA LAND states it , aft 782 Frencll leagues , or 21Sl English milesn we find the 1 Soodth part of this to be less than one mile and an half for the highest , and the 2croodth partn not quite one mil &lt; e and a tentll for the lowest I attendedall this time to the appfearallee of the slearp limb abc of the sun , fig. , and suspected , sometimes , a little lending of the cusps outwards , as espressed at b in fig. 4 ; but upon long , and attentive inspectiona I could not satisfy myself of itS Teality .
If there ras a bending , it did probably llOt amount to one secolld of a degree ; for , having formerly been much in the habit of measuring the moon 's mountains , the quantity of one second , on its disk was still famxiliar ellough to me to esti-mate it pretty exactly .
loh z5t I looked out with the natural eye for the planet Venus , and soon perceived her .
In the telescope , with 28yo she appeared very sharp and well defilled , and sras a little ... gl bbous .
It suay seem , perhaps , extraordlnary that in the trial above mLentioneda the eye should be able to ascersain the proportion of a qu-antity so little as the fifteen hundredth or twio thousandth part of the diameter of the moon ; but the experiment may be easily repeated in the following manner : Uporz a line , six or eight inches long , drawn on a sheet of paper , make several small marks , representing tnountains on the progected circumference of a large globe .
The paper beX ing then placed in a proper light and situation , withldraw the. .
eye to the distance of 7 , 8 , or 9 feet , and take notice which of the marks appear of the same size , and distinctness , with the * Irl the years 1779 , 1780 , and 178X .
I did not measure , I suppose , less than are hundred 1nountains of the moon , in which I used three different methods : the projection of the tops of these mountains beyond the enlightened part of the disk ; the length of their shadow on the surface of the moon ; and their perpendiculalz projection on the full edge of the moon 's li1nb .
Some of these observations are contained in a former pwer ( see Phil. Trans. Vol. EX .
PartII .
page 507 ) ; but most of them remain uncalculated in my journal , till some proper opportunity .
mountains they represent .
Then , from the known angular magnitude of the moon ; calculate its diameter , at the distance of your situation ; this , multiplied by the power of the teleSCOpe7 gives the diameter of a circle , to the circumference of which belongs the ; lineS upon which are placed the marks above descriloed .
Now , tneasure the elevation of these marks , above that lin@ , and you will obtain the proportion they kearXo the -diameter of the circle .
In my experiment , I found that I could plainly see some smclll protuberances at g feet distance which were no higher than the oth part of an inch .
Then putting the diameter of the moon at gotg we have the sum of the logarithms of the tazgent of 3o ' X of the povvzer 287 and of the otlls of an inch contained in g -feet ; which , taken from the logarithm of theP diameter of the moon in mile-sg gives the logaritllm of,16 .
By which we findf that so small a mountain as the llofiowdth , or not much more than the sixth part of a mile ) may be per ceived and estimated ) by the telescope and pover that was used upon this occasion X and that , consequently the estimation of mountainsS near a mile and an half highg must becotne a very easy task Sl9ugh near Windsor . ?
WMe H:ElRSCIIFIa tpecf 30 &gt; I795*

