480 Capt. Abney and Lt.-Col .
Festing .
[ Jan. 25 , 34 .
This points to something anomalous in the centering of the eye surfaces .
The amount and direction of the eccentricity in my eyes as shown by these means are in somewhat remarkable correspondence with those obtained by the entirely different method of Helmholtz ( " Phys. Opt .
, " pp. 86 , 87 ) .
I may add below the angles for my eyes corresponding to numbers given by Helmholtz , loc. cit.:_ Light came from Nasal side .
Temporal side .
Right eye ... , ... ... ... . .
9 ' 27 ' ... .
3 ' 49 ' Left eye---- ... ... ... ... .
7 ' 36 ' ... .
7 ' 36 ' 35 .
One more observation of some interest I may record .
With the sun as source of light and with a fixed direction of vision ( I have generally taken that direction in which the ghost comes into the line of direct vision , so as to avoid the constant tendency of the eye to turn towards any object of interest in the field ) , the ghost passes through a series of forms as the state of accommodation alters .
There are three marked forms , a horizontal bar with a near focus ; a circle for a slightly more remote focus ; and a vertical bar for long distance .
There may be signs of a double astigmatism ; but as they are the only signs that I have had of such defect in my eyesight , I have rejected this explanation in favour of the equally simple one , that we have here the focal lines and circle of least confusion such as are observed in oblique reflexion by a concave mirror .
The explanation suggested in this paper is attended with difficulties , the greatest of which is perhaps that referred to in S 27 .
It is , however , the one which on the whole explains best the greatest number of the facts to be accounted for .
The calculations made on various points mentioned above are based on measurements given by Helmholtz for his schematic eye .
It seems likely that individual variations from the normal eye should be such as to determine the visibility of the ghost ; but I have found as yet no obvious relation in \amp ; bout fifteen cases between the power to see the ghost and the kind of sight , as defined by the ordinary terms , long and short sightedness .
Two cases in which I have , notably failed to show the ghost , are opposed in this respect , one having short sight , the other normal ; whilst of those to whom the ghost is visible there are as many short sighted as long sighted .
III .
" Note on the Absorption Spectrum of Iodine in Solution in Carbon Disulphide .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Lieut.-Colonel Festing , R.E. Received January 18 , 1883 .
In 1876 , Sir John Conroy ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , p. 46 ) , described the absorption spectrum of a solution of iodine in carbon 1883 J Absorption Spectrum of Iodine in Carbon Disulphide .
481 disulphide .
He , however , solely regarded the visible spectrum from near B to above Gr , about wave-length 4,000 .
Our attention was recently directed to the absorption of this substance , and we have determined photographically the spectra for different thicknesses and strengths of the solution .
Our inquiries into the behaviour of carbon disulphide had shown ns that it , as well as iodine , was transparent for rays of very low refrangibility , as was first shown by Professor Tyndall .
We are not aware , however , that any investigations into the absorption at the more refrangible end of the spectrum have been published .
An idea seems to be'prevalent that the absorption commences in the green , and gradually extends , as the thickness or density of the solution is increased , in both directions until finally all the visible rays are extinguished , leaving the invisible rays at both ends unabsorbed .
Though one of us employed the solution before to cut off the visible portion of the spectrum ( " Phil. Trans. , " Part II , 1880 , p. 664 ) in diffraction photography of the lower part of the spectrum , the use of it was abandoned owing to the opinion that was expressed that instead of the infra-red being photographed , the ultra-violet and violet of the spectrum of the next order might be that which was really impressed .
Our recent experiments , however , show that no fear need have been entertained on this account , as the annexed diagram will sliow*^ The following thicknesses and strengths of solution were employed , being placed before the slit of the photographic spectroscope Iodine in CS2 .
Thickness .
4 per cent , equivalent to 2 millims. 8 2 \#187 ; 12 " \gt ; \#187 ; 2 16 " 2 32 " \#187 ; 2 " The source of light was usually the crater of the positive pole of the electric lamp , though in two instances we were favoured with a glimpse of sunshine , which enabled us to confirm what we had before * This diagram represents the absorption of the continuous spectrum .
The bright bands in the electric fight above K had power to penetrate the solutions II and III .
Presents .
[ Dec. 21 , obtained with the less brilliant source of light .
For Nos. I , II an(j III , photographs were taken , which gave the red and infra-red spectrum , as well as the more refrangible end .
With every number ordinary gelatin plates of great sensitiveness were employed as a check on the collodion plates .
To the eye , the red , in each case extends a trifle more towards D than in the photograph .
An attempt was made to produce the same range of photographic action in the spectrum of the thicker solutions as in the less dense , by increasing the time of exposure .
The result , however , was abortive and hence we may conclude that when any visible ray is quenched to sight by a solution of particular density , it also ceases to be photographically active .
The last ray to disappear in the blue lies somewhere close to Ji , and it will be seen that the ultra-violet rays are absorbed before the absorption touches the violet .
By using a still denser solution than No. V , we were able to entirely quench the blue , both visually and photographically , while the extreme red was still visible , and the photograph taken showed no signs of absorption of the infra-red rays .
In conclusion we would remark , that by the use of this solution in a rock-salt cell and a grating , the infra-red spectrum from X 7,600 to X 15,200 may be photographed without the instrumental separation of the different orders of spectra ; and the conditions of our climate are such that the atmospheric absorption usually , if not always , prevents a study of the solar spectrum below the greater wave-length above-named .
Presents , December 21 , 1882 .
Transactions .
Bern:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
1881 .
Heft2 .
8vo .
Bern 1882 .
The Society .
Bologna:\#151 ; Accademia dell Scienze dell ' Istituto .
Memory .
Serie 4 .
Tomo II .
4to .
Bologna 1880 .
Accademia dell Scienze dello Istituto di Bologna dalla sua Origin a tutto il MDCCCLXXX .
8vo .
Bologna 1881 .
The Academy .
Brussels :\#151 ; Academy Royale de Medecine .
Bulletin .
3e Serie .
Tome XVI .
Nos. 4-9 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1882 .
Memoires Couronnes .
Tome VII .
Fasc .
2 , 3 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1882 .
The Academy .
Societe Royale Malacologique .
Annals .
Tome XIII .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1878 .
Proces-Verbaux , Juin-Decembre , 1881 .
8vo .
The Society .
Budapest:\#151 ; Kon .
Ungarische Geologische Anstalt .
Mittheilungen .
Band VI .
Heft 2 .
8vo .
Budapest 1882 .
The Institution .

