358 Mr. B. D. Steel .
The Measurement of Ionic Velocities It is found that the agreement is , on the whole , tolerably good , whence it is inferred that in torsion , the effect of local action dies out more rapidly than in tension or compression^ The only case of obvious divergence is with regard to the shear rcf\gt ; .
This shear persists inside , even at sections where no stress of this kind is applied to the outside of the cylinder , but it continually diminishes as we recede from the ends . .
, In the exact solution , the cross-sections do not remain undistorted , the transverse displacement increasing more rapidly than the radius .
The distortion is small at sections where there is no external applied stress , but is very obvious near the ends .
... Further , when the applied transverse shear varies diseontmuously , as in this case , the other stress becomes infinite at the points of discontinuity .
This suggests why it is that abrupt changes in the section of such a cylinder are dangerous .
The projecting parts acting upon the inner core will introduce a sudden change in the transverse shear .
It has been noticed that propeller shafts usually break at such points .
" The Measurement of Ionic Velocities in Aqueous Solution , and the Existence of Complex Ions .
" By B. D. Steel , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar ( Melbourne ) .
Communicated by Professor Bamsay , F.R.S. Received May 10 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The method of measuring ionic volocities described by Masson has been extended in such a manner that , by the present method , the use of gelatin solution and of coloured indicators is not necessary .
An aqueous solution of the salt to be measured is enclosed between two partitions of gelatin which contain the indicator ions in solution , the apparatus being always so arranged that the heavier solution lies underneath the lighter .
On the passage of the current the ions of t m measured solution move away from the jelly , followed at either en by the indicator ions j the boundary is quite visible m consequence o the difference in refractive index of the two solutions .
The velocity of movement of the margins is measured by means of a cathetometer , and the ratio of the margin velocities gives at once the ratio of the ionic velocities . .
f It is found that , for the production and maintenance of a g refractive margin , a certain definite range of potential fall is icq " givenVir of solutions , and this range differs very much or different boundaries-for example , the margin potassium acetate in Aqueous Solution , and the Existence of Complex Ions .
359 following potassium chloride , or K -r is stable with a potential fall of cd 0*82 volt , whilst for the stability of the \#151 ; SO4 margin , a voltage of ext 2*54 volts at least is necessary .
The explanation of this is to be looked for , not in the fall of potential in the measured solution , to which the above figures refer , but rather to the change of potential fall on passing from the indicator solution to the latter , and is probably connected in some manner with the Nernst theory of liquid cells .
Certain regularities in the influence of different salts on the melting points of the jellies have been noted , and it seems that this influence is more or less of an additive nature , depending on the nature of the anion and of the cation .
Amongst anions the SO4 ion has the least , and the I and NO3 ions the greatest , effect in lowering the melting point .
Amongst cations , the K ion has a much less influence than the Li or Mg ions : these relations are as yet , however , only qualitative .
The values for the transport number that have been obtained show a remarkable agreement with Masson 's figures , as measured in gelatin , for potassium and sodium chlorides .
On the other hand , for lithium chloride and magnesium sulphate no such agreement exists .
For all the salts a comparison with Hittorf 's figures shows only an approximate agreement , being about as good at that shown by a comparison of the figures for the same salt , as measured by different investigators , by the indirect method of Hittorf .
From a knowledge of the specific resistance of the measured solution it is possible to calculate the potential fall in this part of the system , and from this the absolute average velocity TJ = where x \#151 ; the coefficient of .
ionisation , and u the absolute ionic velocity .
A very striking agreement holds between the sum of the velocities of anion and cation and the sum as calculated from Kohlrausch 's conductivity figures .
The velocities of a large number of ions at different concentrations of different salts have been calculated , and the velocity of the hydrogen and hydroxyl ions have been also measured , with the following results :\#151 ; Found .
Calculated .
OH in KOH , 0*5N ... ... ... . .
0-001435 0-00145 " NaOH , 0-2N ... ... ... 0-00158 0-00152 H in HN03 , 0-2 N ... ... ... ... 10-00272 } 0-00280 The ratio of the current , as measured by the galvanometer , to that calculated from the velocity of the margins in the manner indicated by Masson , is found to be equal to unity only for a few salts of the type of potassium chloride ; for other salts this ratio has a value in some cases VOL. LXVIII .
2 \lt ; J Prof. J. Dewar .
greater , in others less , than 1 .
The same irregularity has been previously pointed out by Masson for the gelatin solutions of the sulphates of magnesium and lithium .
The attempt is made to explain this deviation from the requirements of theory , and also the difficulty that Kohlrausch is unable to assign to dyad elements any value for the specific ionic velocity , which is the same when calculated from the measurements of different salts of the same metal , by the assumption , first advanced by Hittorf , that , in concentrated solutions of these salts ionisation takes place in such a manner that there are formed complex ions in addition to simple ones ; and the conclusion is drawn that , in all cases where any considerable change in transport number occurs with changes in concentration , complex ions are present to a greater or less extent .
June 13 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. James Mansergh , Major Ronald Ross , Mr. Oldfield Thomas , Mr. William Watson , and Mr. William C. Dampier Whetham were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture , " The Nadir of Temperature , and Allied Problems , " was delivered by Professor James Dewar , F.R.S. Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Nadir of Temperature , and Allied Problems .
1 .
Ph}rsical Properties of Liquid and Solid Hydrogen .
2 .
Separation of Free Hydrogen and other Gases from Air .
3 .
Electric Resistance Thermometry at the Boiling Point of Hydrogen .
4 .
Experiments on the Liquefaction of Helium at the Melting Point of Hydrogen .
5 .
Pyroelectricity , Phosphorescence , \amp ; c. " By James Dewar , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge , and Fullerian Professor of Chemistry , Royal Institution , London , \amp ; c. Delivered June 13 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) Details are given in this paper which have led to the following results:\#151 ; ... The helium thermometer which records 20o,5 absolute as the boiling

