II .
" On the Bromide of Titanium .
" By F. B. DUPPA , Esq. Communicated by A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received February 14 , 1856 .
A comparison of the boiling-points of corresponding chlorine and bromine compounds , led Prof. Kopp to the interesting discovery , that en the average their boiling-points rise 32 ?
C for every equivalent of bromine which is substituted for an equivalent of chlorine .
Boilingpoint .
Difference .
Chloride of ethyl , C4 H5 Cl ... .
11 ?
C. 3 Bromide of ethyl , C4 H5 Br ... .
41 ?
C. Dichlorinetted ethylene , C4 H4 C12 67 ?
C. 3 Dibrominetted ethylene , C4 H4 Br2 133 ?
-6C .
Terchloride of phosphorus , P C1 .
78 ?
C. Terbromide of phosphorus , P Br3 .
175 .
32C .
If this difference be constant for all chlorine and bromine conmpounds , it becomes obvious that very important inferences in respect to the atomic constitution of these substances may be derived from the determination of their boiling-points .
This result has , in fact , been happily applied by Prof. Kopp , as a criterion to determine the equivalent of silicium , a matter of such uncertainty as to have led to the admission of not less than three formulae for silicaSio SiO SiO3 .
From the difference between the boiling-points of chloride ( 59 ?
C. ) * See letter from Mr. Thomson to Mr. Joule , published in the Philosophical Magazine , Nov. 1850 .
and that of bromide ( 153 ?
C.)-a difference which amounts to 94=3 x 311--Kopp derives the formulae SiCI3 and SiBr3 , as representing the atomic constitution of the chloride and the bromide of silicium , and he accordingly fixes the equivalent of silicium at 21'3 .
In order , however , to prove the general validity of Kopp 's observations , it was necessary to re-examine the boiling-points of corresponding chlorine and bromine compounds which exhibited discrepancies , and to extend the inquiry to as great a number of new compounds as possible .
Mr. Francis Baldwin Duppa has , at my suggestion , undertaken an investigation of this subject , and has already obtained some valuable results , which I beg to communicate to the Royal Society .
The bromine-compound of titanium was unknown .
Mr. Duppa has produced this substance by passing a current of bromine over an intimate mixture of pure titanic acid and carbon .
The reaction takes place at a bright red heat , and furnishes a brown liquid , which solidifies in the receiver to a crystalline mass .
Distilled with an excess of mercury , which removes any free bromine that may be present , the bromide of titanium presents itself as an amber-yellow compound , exhibiting a magnificent crystalline structure ; it attracts moisture with the greatest avidity , and is converted into titanic and hydrobromic acid .
Bromide of titanium has a specific gravity of 2'6 .
The fusing-point was found , 39 ? .
The boiling-point was examined by Mr. Duppa with a considerable quantity of substance , the purity of which had been ascertained by analysis .
It was observed to be 230 ?
C. The boiling-point of the chloride of titanium , as observed by Dumas , and confirmed by Mr. Duppa , is 135 ? .
The difference , 230-135 =95 =3x 31 , is exactly the same as that observed between the boiling-points of chloride and bromide of silicium .
This observation furnishes an additional support to the-analogy of silicium and titanium , while it points unequivocally to the formulae TiCl3 and TiBr3 , as representing the atomic constitution of these two compounds .
Titanic acid , hitherto universally represented as a binoxide TiO , would then assume the formula TiO3 in perfect analogy with that of silicic acid .
The equivalent of titanium would then be changed from 24'29 , the number at present adopted , to 36'39 .
The protoxide of titanium would in this case become a sesquioxide , and the compound hitherto viewed as sesquioxide would have to be considered as an intermediate oxide-as a combination of the sesquioxide with the teroxide , in fact , as a bititanate of sesquioxide of titanium .
Formulce of the Titanium Compounds .
Old Notation .
New Notation , Ti=24-29 Ti=36-39 .
Ti 0 First oxide Ti2 03 Ti2 03 Second oxide Ti4 09O Ti 03 , 2Ti03 Ti 02 Acid Ti 03 Ti C12 Chloride Ti Cl3 Ti Br2 Bromide Ti Br3 .
It is scarcely necessary to observe , that an alteration of the equivalent of titanium on the ground of the difference of the two boilingpoints , would be hazardous , if not supported by additional experimental evidence , and that further researches on the series of titanium are required in order to establish whether the proposed alteration actually affords a simpler expression for the combining relations of this remarkable element .

