Absence of Mechanical Connection between Ether and Matter .
31 IV .
" Luminosity and Photometry .
" By John Berry Haycraft , .
M.D. , University College , Cardiff .
Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. " Experiments on the Absence of Mechanical Connection between Ether and Matter .
" By Oliver Lodge , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , University College , Liverpool .
Received January 19 , \#151 ; Read March 4 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives an abbreviated account of a long series of experiments conducted by himself and his assistant , Mr. Davies , in continuation of those related in 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , 1893 ( Aberration Problems , \amp ; c. ) .
The method consists in bifurcating a beam of light , , and sending each half in opposite directions round a closed periphery very near a rapidly rotating mass of matter , and then observing by means of interference fringes whether the velocity of light is affected in the slightest degree by this neighbourhood of moving matter .
The steel disks have been now whirled to higher speeds , chiefly at 3000 revolutions a minute ; the steadiness of the machine and the definition of the bands have been improved , other minor improvements have been made , and a long series of micrometric readings have been taken , both at increasing and at decreasing speeds .
Further , the steel disks have been replaced by a much more massive lump of iron , weighing f ton , with a narrower channel for the light to travel in ; and the bands have been observed close up to the moving surface , and even when reflected in it .
The rotation was also continued for some hours to see if by chance time had any influence .
Moreover , the iron mass was strongly magnetised by a steady current , so that the light travelled across a moving magnetic field ; and lastly the steel disks were replaced , with an insulated third disk between them , and strongly electrified , so that the beam of light travelled across a moving electrostatic field .
After a number of spurious disturbances had been gradually eliminated , the author-finds that in none of these ways is the velocity of light at all appreciably affected , and accordingly concludes that there is no viscous connexion between the ether and matter of observable magnitude ; i.e. , that whatever motion moving matter may confer upon the ether must be of an irrotational kind .
It was demonstrated theoretically in the previous memoir that no optical experiments could be competent to detect motion of this latter character , and accordingly no attempt has 32 Prof. J. W. Judd .
Second Report on Specimens been made to look for any kind of motion except suck as would be caused by something akin to viscosity .
Incidentally the author points out that by rotating the whole optical apparatus and observer , instead of the disks , at a very moderate speed , .a shift of the bands should be seen ; and even that the earth 's rotation would with a large enough frame produce an effect , which latter , however , it appears difficult or impossible to observe , not on account of its smallness , but on account of its constancy .
The effect to be expected on Fresnel-Fizeau pn'nciples from whirling air , was unfortunately just too small for the author to safely observe .
The residual disturbing causes just masked it , but it is probably not beyond the reach of another attempt with a still more thoroughly steady machine , if anyone feels inclined to persevere so far .
At the same time if it be supposed that any microscopic trace of true ether effect still possibly exists ( which the author wholly disbelieves ) , and if a further attempt be hereafter made to observe it , a number of slight residual disturbing causes would be got rid of ( and probably other difficulties introduced ) by rotating the machine in a vacuum .
" Second Report on a Series of Specimens of the Deposits of the Nile Delta , obtained by Boring Operations undertaken by the Royal Society .
" By John W. Judd , C.B. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the Royal College , of Science .
Communicated by desire of the Delta Committee .
Received February 11 , \#151 ; Read March 4 , 1897 .
The last report on the borings undertaken in the delta of the Nile under the auspices of the Royal Society was communicated to the Society by the direction of the Delta Committee on November 12 , 1885 , and published in No. 240 of the 'Proceedings .
' This report .dealt with the materials obtained from the three borings made at Kasr-el-Nil , at Kafr-ez-Zayat , and at Tantah , which reached depths .of 45 feet , 84 feet , and 73 feet respectively .
Although these borings made known to us the character of the delta deposits at greater depths than the explorations made by Mr. Leonard Horner and M. Linant de Beliefondes , yet none of them succeeded in reaching the \#166 ; solid rock on which these deposits lie , and in which the Nile Valley was originally excavated .
It was therefore decided by the Delia Committee to make still more strenuous efforts to attain this result\#151 ; a result which the sections published by Figari Bay , said to be based on borings made for the purpose , led the Committee to believe might be arrived at with a moderate expenditure .
In their attempts to carry out this important work , the Delta Com-

