On a New Principle of constructing Ships in the Mercantile Navy .
By Sir Robert Seppings , F.R.S. Read March 9,1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 133 .
] In the present mode of constructing the ribs of English merchant ships , only half the timbers are united , so as to constitlute any part of an arch , every alternate couple only being connected together ; the intermediate two timbers being unconnected , and resting upon , instead of supporting , the outer planking .
The mode of joining the different pieces of the same rib is also highly objectionable .
It is effected by the introduction of a wedge-piece , by which the grain of the rib pieces is much cut , and the general fabric weakened , with a great consumption of materials .
The object of the introduction of these wedge pieces or chocks , is to procure the curvature requisite in forming a ship , when crooked timber is scarce ; but the curve may be equally obtained by a different arrangement of materials , and with less consumption of useful timber .
After pointing out several other defects and disadvantages arising out of the present mode of building mercantile ships , Sir Robert proceeds to consider the best means of obviating them .
He employs shorter lengths of timber and of less curvature , consequently less grain-cut , and their ends are connected by coaks or dowels , instead of wedge pieces .
In the event of a ship grounding , such a construction is much better adapted to give support and strength to the fabric than the former .
The advantages of this new principle in practice appear from a report of the officers of Woolwich Yard to the Navy Board , relating to a comparison of the Talavera , built upon the improved construction , with the Black Prince , constructed in the usual way .
Another important circumstance relating to the Talavera is , that her frame consists of small timber , hitherto considered as only applicable to frigates , but which , when properly combined , may , in Sir Robert 's opinion , be rendered equal in strength and , economy to the large and often grain-cut materials used in the frames of large ships .
Several drawings accompany this paper , the inspection of which is requisite to render the further details which it contains intelligible .

