]\gt ; An Application of tl , Principle of Dynamical Similitude .
Molecular Physics .
* By W. B. HARDY , F.B.S. ( Received May 14 , 1915 .
) 1 .
Consider a molecular system subject to the condition of stationary motion , and let ths forces acting between or within the molecules be tive .
A statistical specification of the energy content of such a system can be obtained either by considering a mass containing a large number of molecules , and the energy as the sum of the energies of individual molecules at an instant of time , or by averaging the energy of individual molecules over a sufficiently long time , and expressing the whole energy as the sum of these time averages .
Let us choose the former method .
At any instant of time some of the nlolecules will be in material contact , some free , and , if the molecules are not all alike and some are formed by the more or less complete fusion of others there will be molecules in process of combination to form a distinct type , and molecules of this type in process of up into constituent molecules .
Material contact between molecules is to mean any encounter in which forces of mntual repulsion come into operation .
This definition is exact so long as radiation between the molecules is excluded ( as it is by the imposition of the condition of conservatism ) .
For the term repulsive forces\ldquo ; is here to refer to those forces which confer upon the individual molecules the property of extension in space .
It is not necessary for the moment to enquire whether these forces arise wholly or in part from the variation of the kinetic of internal degrees of freedom .
As the molecules are the moving parts , it is necessary to specify the energy in terms of their number and kind .
The molecules may be classified in two ways , which yield totally different results , namely , according to their chemical structure or to their dynamical characters , , the number of degrees of freedom .
The latter is more general ; it includes the former , and it is necessary to follow it in this paper .
We can recognise three conditions : free molecules , molecules in contact , and transition stages .
The free molecules will include any multiple from unity * A reference to a paper by Kammer ] ingh Onnes ( ' Verh . .
K. Akad . .
Wet .
3 , ' Amsterdam , vol. 21 , 1881 ) first drew my attention to this principle .
ning to the paper I found be in Dutcl ] , and therefore sealed from my comprehension .
This communication gives the results of an entirely independent research , which will , I hope , be found to cover fresh ground .
Principle of Similitude in Molecular Physics .
83 upwards of the chemical molecule or molecules which form the system .
Lt the free molecules be divided into classes in any convenient manner : the transition then are stages of combination or breaking apart of molecules of some of these classes to form molecules of other classes .
Stages in the combination of single chemical molecules to form complexes would come within this category .
Obviously , in order to avoid statistical ambiguity , the classes must be so defined as to exclude transition stages , which then form a class apart .
A sufficient definition is that molecules of the classes are structures in stable equilibrium ; transition states , on the contrary , are in process of internal change , and are therefore labile states .
Lt the word \ldquo ; encounter\ldquo ; refer to molecules which are merely in material contact .
Such molecules can be enumerated as members of the classes , for during an encounter they do not lose their individual dynamical characters .
If is the whole energy of the mass , and , etc. , that of the molecular species , , etc. where is the energy of transition states .
Since in a steady state the distribution of the energy amongst the different molecular species is constant , we can write constant , the constancy being supposed to refer to averages taken over masses of the same chemical fluid each containing a very large number of molecules and each in- the same state as defined by temperature , pressure and specific volume .
The kinetic energy of any one molecule of a species , say species , is , where is the number of degrees of freedom .
The potential energy similarly may be farded as the sum of a number of terms enting respectively the potential energy due to the attraction of the other molecules and the elastic forces within the molecule , including repulsive forces , that is to say those forces which confer extension in space upon the molecule .
, Since the forces are conservative the potential energy is a pure function of the co-ordinates which specify position , thel.efore each term in the potential energy will have the form where are the resolved forces .
Averaging over all the molecules of class , we have as the total energy : , ( 3 ) Mr. W. B. Hardy .
Application of the Principle of is the average ki1letic energy of a degree of freedom , and the average potential energy of any one system of forces .
If denote number of distinct species of molecules , the energy of the mass is .
( 4 ) The quantity includes both kinetic and potential energy .
It is the energy of molecular states which are not in stable equilibrium\mdash ; that is of labile states .
It is a familiar fact that molecular reactions involving the fornlation of new species often can take place only when molecules which do not form part of the new species assist .
An extreme instance of this is found in ferment-actions .
In general a reaction between two molecules leading to structural changes may be supposed to be possible only in certain special local states of the general internal field of force as regards intensity and , especially if the forces are electrical , orientation .
Thus from whatever aspect the energy is regarded it is seen to be energy which cannot be considered as belonging to the chemical molecule or to molecules formed by association of chemical molecules , for these are molecules which are in stable equilibrium .
It is obvious that vanishes when the system is expanded to the state of an , and incleases on the whole as it is condensed , until the crystalline state is reached , when the gas molecule as such ceases to exist .
Let there be two distinguished by the suffixes 1 and 2 , which differ only in their linear dimensions .
There will be two equations similar to equation 4 .
, ( 5 ) .
( 6 ) The limits of summation will be the same in both , and The one equation will be changed into the other if ( 8 ) etc. etc. ( 9 ) etc. ( 11 ) etc. ( 12 ) and .
( 13 ) Similitude to Molecular Physics .
On comparing equations 7-13 with equations 5 and 6 it is seen that .
( 14 ) 2 .
Equation 8 practically limits the application of the principle of dynamic similitude to molecular systems composed of one single chemical substance , and to chemical series such as the paraffins , alcohols , etc. For such a series the parameter may be identified with the ratio of the molecular weights , or if is the gramme-molecule The parameter offers greater difficulties .
is the ratio of corresponding linear velocities in the two systems .
The theorem of equipartition of kinetic states that or the mean energy absorbed by each degree of freedom is the same .
is a constant having the dimensions of energy , and may be taken to be a pure number .
We now have for two systems in which is the mass of the chemical molecules , and a component of the velocity of the centre of ravity of the molecule .
If the units of energy are the saule in both numerator and denominator , and we get from ( 9 ) and ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) where are the temperatures of the two systems when dynamically similar , that is to say when they are in corresponding states .
The propriety of extending the law of equipartition of energy to condensed systems is , however , still open to debate .
* But the statement that the temperature of a substance is proportional to the mean kinetic energy of translation of the molecule , taken in conjunction with equations 8 and 9 , gives relation 18 independently of the distribution of the amongst the degrees of freedom .
I do not think it can be maintained that there is any proof of this statement .
It is founded upon two facts of experience : ( 1 ) that if a number of systems are placed in material contact , that is to say in a relation such that mutual repulsive forces come into play , they reach equality of temperature in the sense that if the physical state of any other system , say a column of mercury , be fixed upon as an indicator , and placed in contact with each of the systems in turn , it will indicate the same temperature for each ; and ( 2 ) that potemial energy of one system cannot be directly converted into the potenlial energy of another system .
The *Cf .
for instance Burberry , ' Kinetic Theory of Gases .
' Mr. W. B. Hardy .
ication of the Principle of fact that one of the uous systems may be a permanent gas enables us to identify the temperature scale with the kinetic scale .
The parameter offers no difficulties , for corresponding volumes will be the volumes occupied by corresponding masses .
If is the specific volume , will be a volume , namely , the volume occupied by a grammemolecule .
We then have .
( 19 ) 3 .
The real difficulty in the application of the principle of dynamical similitude to actual substances lies in the identification of corresponding states .
Equation 4 may be written ( 20 ) the various coefficients being less than unity .
In a stead-y state the coefficients are constant and states are such that etc. Theoretically , therefore , any physical property such as temperature , pressure , specific volume , or magnetic susceptibility which can be used to measure the ratio of any one of the terms on the left say can be used to identify corresponding states , since and will bear the same ratio , and these are quantities which in certain cases are subject to actual measurement .
equations 8 , 9 , and 18 , we get .
( 21 ) NI here is the mass of a molecule of any one of the molecular species and the velocity of progressive motion .
There is no difficulty in upon certain states , namely , that at the absolute zero , that of the ideal gas , and , with less certainty , the crirical state .
for the critical temperature , , ( 22 ) and for two systems in states .
( 23 ) We may also write .
( 24 ) herefore , when , the systems 1 and 2 are not only dynamically similar at the corresponding temperature , but there is also mWualdynamical similarity along the temperature scale at temperatures defined by constant ences in the value of It is to notice the affords no for the that when there is no molecular association .
It shows only that Sirnilitude to Molecular Physics .
whatever degree of association there in the one stem be reprodnce in the other whn there In different systems it is , of course , necessary to compare masses composed of the same number of molecules .
The gramme-molecule may be taken , for if two systems are dynamically ilar the number of moving , that is the number of molecules including transition states , will then be the same in both , irrespective of the degree of association of the chemical molecules to form complex molecules .
4 .
The limitation of conservatism does not make the theory inapplicable to actual substances .
A mass of fluid is in a steady state when its temperature , pressure , and volume are constant .
It is then receiving energy from without by conduction or radiation on the average as fast as it is losing energy .
In this sense the system is conservative , and when two steady states are compared as to their energy content that portion of the to forces whose potential energy is not a single valued function of position may be dealt with as the quantity was dealt with .
It may be put constant for each steady state , and , therefore , as bearing a constant ratio to the whole energy content .
5 .
Internal Latent Heats.\mdash ; At colTesponding temperatures such that we have for each substance two conjugate states , that of the fluid and that of its vapour .
The work done in from the one state to the other against the forces of cohesion may be identified with the product of .
the internal latent heat and the total mass .
For this heat is the total energy required to convert unit mass of fluid into vapour less energy absorbed by surface forces such as an external pressure .
Let be the energy of a gramme-molecule of the substance as fluid , and as vapour , both at the same temperature .
Then , if be the internal latent heat of unit mass , we have and From equations 14 , 15 , and 18 we get , since .
( 25 ) Equation 25 follows directly from the law of equipartition of kinetic energy if this assumed .
Let be the total number of degrees of freedom of the system , then , if all the equations apply to corresponding states , we have and , and for two states of the same substance Mr. W. B. Hardy .
Application of the Principle of Let one state be fluid and the other vapour in equilibrium with it , then ' and LM but for systems in the term in square brackets is equal .
6 .
The equation for corresponding states , therefore , is where is a function only of in equation 22 .
Since dynamical similarity between molecules of different chemical types is not to be expected , this relation cannot be a general one .
A chain compound is as little likely to correspond dynamically to a compound as is a reciprocating engine to a turbine .
If dynamical correspondence is to be found it must be looked for in members of the same chemical series .
The difficulty mentioned in raph 3 now confronts us .
Two courses are open , we may either make some assulnption as to corresponding temperatures and develop the consequences , or identify corl.esponding temperaturea by equations 25 and 26 .
I propose in this paper to confine myself to the first alternative , and to examine the consequences of the assumption that corresponding temperatures are identified by the relation , etc. That is to say corresponding states are those whose temperatures are equal fractions of the critical temperature .
Since van der Waals ' time such states so defined have been called corresponding states , , so far as I know , the properly of dynamical similitude has been ttributed to them only by Onnes.* Ample excuse the examination of this assumption in detail is to be found in the immense superstructure of theory as to molecular association , , which has been based upon it .
7 .
has calculated the internal latent heats of a number of compounds .
His figures furnish data for four chemical series : ( 1 ) the benzene series , namely , benzene , cyclohexane , and the four substitution products of benzene : ( 2 ) the paraffins , including from pentane to octane of the normal series and the isomers isopentane , diisopropyl , and diisobutyi ( 3 ) the esters ; and ( 4 ) the alcohols .
The internal latent heats were calculated in order to test the truth of the formula constant , where is as before internal latent heat and and are the densities of the fluid and vapoul1 respectively , and published in 1904 and Since then Mills has recalculated the values and improved them .
The altered values are not *Cf .
van der Waals , ' Zeits . .
Phys. Chem vol. 13 , p. , Appendix 2 .
Journ. Phys. Chem vol. 8 , p. 383 ( 1904 ) .
' Journ. Phys. Chem. ' vol. 13 , p. 512 ( 1909 ) .
militude to Physics .
available , but in all cases they are said to make the approximation to the formula closer .
rtainly Mills ' formuIa is closely followed by the benzene series and paraffins , and where his figures lie off my curves the value given by the curve fits his equation more closely than do his own values .
Thus as an example the values for brombenzene to are below the curve and give values for Mills ' constant which are too low .
For this reason the value for pentane at is too high , and those from to 313 are too low .
Therefore the point for pentane on the curve for is flxed where it ia Mills thoroughly criticises the accuracy of his calculations .
The great care he took is revealed in his papers and his relation given above is so close an approximation as to have led to corrections being made in Young 's data .
It is assumed that when in equation , the bstanc s are in corresponding states .
8 .
Benzene Series.\mdash ; Below are given the values of in equation 26 .
According to theory they should be constant for corresponding temperatures The agreement with theory is more exact than that usually accepted as being satisfactory in papers dealing with molecular physics , but in spite of this it would be wrong to conclude that equation 26 is complied with .
In fig. 1 the molecular latent heats are plotted against absolute temperature .
On each curve certain points surrounded by a ring are at corresponding temperatures , namely , , etc. The oblique lines which pass through certain of these points , therefore , by assumption , pass through corresponding points , and they are the curves of equation 26 .
They satisfy the equation in that they are straight lines , but they do not satisfy it in that when produced they do not pass through the origin at absolute zero .
The curve for does within the limits of error pass through the origin .
The concordance between theory and fact is close , but the equation of corresponding states , instead of , is .
It will be noticed that the equation applies only to the halogen derivatives , that is to say , these substances form a similar series to which neither benzene nor cyclohexane belong .
* Mills ' figures for di-isobutyl I found intractable .
They would not fall into any regular curve , therefore I do not give them .
The specimen Young used seems to have been inipure .
VOL. XCIL\mdash ; A. 9 .
The Paraffin ( Fig. ) \mdash ; The normal paraffins form a series whose equation for corresponding temperatures again is , but is numerically larger , and is always positive .
Of the isomers isopentane is indistinguishable from the series , but di-isopropyl clearly falls out of it .
The benzene derivatives and normal paraffins thus form two series , the members of each of which are in dynamical similarity , but at each corresponding temperature the series is displaced uniformly .
The degree of displacement is measured by the parameter , and is much greater in the paraffins than in the ring compounds .
10 .
The Methyl Esters ( Fig. ) \mdash ; The curves for corresponding temperatures now are no longer linear , therefore the series is no longer dynamically similar .
This follows at once from the form of the equations .
11 .
The Alcohols ( Fig. ) \mdash ; The curves also are no longer linear .
The degree of curvature is maximal at , vanishes at the critical point , and is at .
Where the curvature is greatest the molecular internal latent heat at corresponding temperatures diminishes with molecular weight .
12 .
The parameter is of great interest .
The argument developed in paragraphs 1 and 2 may be reduced to three propositions : ( 1 ) that the kinetic energy of a system is a linear function of its temperature , ( 2 ) that in similar states the kinetic and potential energies stand to each other in a constant ratio , and therefore ( 3 ) that the potential energy of systems when dynamically similar is also a linear function of their temperatures .
In raic form these propositions reduce to .
( 27 ) Dynamical Sir nilitude to Molecular Physics .
to comply with equation 13 .
Two guns may be dynamically similar even when firing shells with different bursting charges .
Thus , there may be present reserves of potential energy not referred to in 27 , but which may be upon when certain changes take place .
If the assumption that etc. is a criterion of dynamically similar states be valid , the relation shows that the energy is made up of the quantity received from without as heat , and the quantity drawn from some reserve of energy within the fluid .
is not necessarily the whole of the energy drawn from this store .
Some , for instance , may be oonverted into kinetic energy of progressive motion of the molecules of the vapour , in which case it is necessarily included in the temperature term It is merely that portion of the reserve of energy absorbed in increasing the kinetic energy and the potential energy of the forces of attraction which is not a linear .
function of temperature .
The reserve in question must be intramolecular energy .
Calling , as before , the forces which confer on the molecules the property of extension in space repulsive forces , the reserve is potential energy of repulsive forces .
It is not suggested by anyone that the mutual attraction of molecules vanishes at the absolute zero ; therefore , except in the single case of rigid molecules , the potential energy of repulsive forces vanishes only in the state of an ideal gas , increases on the whole as the system becomes more condensed , and is probably maximal at the absolute zero .
The quantity in general decreases as the absolute temperature rises , and vanishes at the critical point .
The variation is shown in fig. 5 , where both and are plotted against .
It is easy to see that this must be so .
If it were possible to convert fluid into vapour at a temperature just above the absolute zero , we should pass at once from the state of maximal condensation to maximal expansion , and the whole potential energy of repulsive forces would be converted into kinetic energy and the potential energy of attractive forces .
Passing up the temperature scale the fluid is more expanded and the vapour less expanded , with the result that the reserve of energy is less in the former and greater in the latter , until they finally become equal at the critical point .
Since is the whole or part of the difference , it will , on the whole , decrease as temperature rises to the critical point .
In order to include the small negative values of , which the derivatives of benzene seem to show , it is necessary to drop the narrow conception of simple repulsive forces , or , rather , to enquire what is meant by Tepulsive forces .
We may conclude from what is known of the structure of matter that the property of extension in space of individual molecules , even at the absolute zero , is due to the possession of kinetic energy by internal Dynamical Similitude to Molecular Physics .
In the present state of the controversy as to the structure of matter and energy it is of interest to note that the equation can be derived directly from the theory of quanta .
Let it be supposed that the kinetic energy of a fluid is distributed between ( 1 ) the movements of progressive motion of the molecuIes , ( 2 ) the rotation of the molecuIes , and ( 3 ) the vibrations of an indefinite number of vibrators within the molecuIes .
If 1 and 2 between them have degrees of freedom , we may , without violating the quantum theory , put their energy as sensibly equaI to .
The energy of each vibrator is whers is Planck 's constant and the frequency .
As a first approximation when is not too large\mdash ; that is in fluids at ordinary this is equal to Therefore , in the absorption of an amount of energy from without by a fluid , the distribution of the energy amongst the degrees of freedom would be given by an equation of the form The frequencies of the vibrators will depend upon configuration since they are determined by the damping effect of the fields of neighbouring molecules .
The number oi vibrators will depend upon the chemical ucture of the molecule , that is to say , upon the number and nature of the atoms and their spatial arrangement .
It will also depend upon the configuration of the system as a whole , as Weiss 's work on the magneton shows .
We may , therefore , suppose that for corresponding states of systems whose molecules belong to the same chemical series , the last term in this equation either is constant or varies from substance to substance in the series by some multiple of a .
constant 13 .
Obviously , it is important to settle whether really is constant .
In compiling the following Table , the method of interpolation adopted was not sufficiently accurate to give the units in the values of the internal latent Within the degree of accuracy aimed at , is seen to be a trus Mr. W. B. Hardy .
of Principle of constant for the paraffins .
It is only approximately constant for the benzene derivatives .
Knowing the immense taken by Mr. Mills to secure accuracy in his calculation of the internal latent heats , it is almost ungracious to suggest that the consistent negative values found for and are within the limits of error .
Yet a glance at the curves shows that in region the values refuse to plot to a curve which can be made to include the values between and .
It is therefore possible that really never is negative .
14 .
The dynamical similarity of the benzene derivatives is not to be expected from priori considerations .
When an atom of hydrogen is replaced by a atom the symmetry of the benzene ring is destroyed .
The loading would introduce an additional degree of freedom , and therefore , since the loaded molecules are corresponding masses , the loading must be such as to keep the centre of mass of the whole molecule in geometrically corresponding points .
It is clear therefore that the halogen atom cannot simply replace a hydrogen atom so that the centre of mass of the former occupies the same position as the latter .
This follows from the fact that the mass is constant whilst the load varies from Fl to .
The load must either be at the centre , or the ring must be distorted proportionately to it .
Neither benzene nor cyclohexane belong to the series , since they are symmetrical unloaded molecules , probably with fewer degrees of freedom .
15 .
The esters and alcohols do not exhibit dynamical similitude because they do not conform to the narrow assumption that corresponding states are to be identified by the relation When this holds we have ( equation 24 ) .
( 27 ) Choosing any two corresponding temperatures and , ( 28 ) and therefore 29 ) It is with the last relation that esters and alcohols probably fail to comply .
J. J. Thomson has given reasons for concluding that the molecules of alcohols are polarised electrically , the study of the tension of interfaces gives reason to believe that the molecules of esters if not actually polarised very readily acquire that property .
Let us asgume that the molecules in both cases contain electric doublets .
MagSoc .
Proc. , ' , vol. 88 , p. 303 ( 1913 ) .
to Molecular Physics .
There will then be attractions and repulsions between the molecules due to their electrification , and there will also be mutual induction leading to clustering of the molecules.* The distribution of the energy amongst the molecules must be very complex , little likely to have the simple relation to temperature denoted by equations 26 and 29 .
Sutherland , who was the first to suggest that cohesion might be of electric rigin , has calculated the foroes between molecules holding electric doublets .
His argument briefly is as The sum of the attractions and repulsions over a space containing a large number of doublets equally spaoed tends to zero .
Therefore such a system would have no cohesion .
But when the doublets are in motion there is a preponderance of attraction over repulsion because when two doublets are approaching they tend to pull one another 's axes into the straight line joining their centres .
This follows from the fact that the force which one doublet exerts on another forms a couple , and while the attractions and repulsions vary inversely as the fourth power of the distance separating the centres , the couples vary inversely as the third power .
When a pair are near together the couple is thus much more potent than either attraction or repulsion , therefore orientation of the axes of approaching molecules in the stable end-on position tends to occur before the latter forces are very great .
Now , if two doul ) lets are approaching with the pxes similarly directed , the attractive force increases to a maximum at ision , while repulsive forces arrest approach before a maximum is obtained .
In general there is the same tendency for attractive forces to increase as for repulsive forces to decrease .
Sutherland draws attention to a property of such a system of doublets which has apparently been entirely overlooked , namely , that the range of the force is a function of the violence of the molecular agitation .
For though the range of the force between two doublets has no upper limit the movement of neighbouring molecules tends to fix a limit , since , as the distance from the centre of any doublet increases , the end-on orientation , on which the excess of .attraction over repulsion depends , will be diminished by the influence of other doublets until at a distance which can be only some small multiple of the average distance between the molecules , the disposition of the axis of any particular doublet considered with respect to the axes of surrounding doublets *Cf .
Thomson , ' Phil. Mag. ' [ 6 ] , vol. 4 , p. 625 ( 1902 ) .
There is no abrupt change at the fusion point of glasses in any physical property .
Hence one may conclude that a random disposition of molecules persists in glasses .
Therefore electric cohesion of glasses should vanish at the absolute zero .
100 inciple of Dynamical ilitude in Molecular Physics .
becomes purely random and the sum of the attractive and repulsive forces on it vanishes .
In this way the form of this force becomes a function of emperature , of the angular moment of the molecule , and of the density of the fluid .
The linear relation of equation 27 is then not likely to hold .
Summary .
The principle of dynamical similitude is developed and applied to the case of the internal latent heat of evaporation .
It is found that if temperature be proportional to the mean energy of progressive motion of the molecules , the internal latent heats of dynamically corresponding states should be given by the equation , where is the latent heat , the grammemolecular weight , a constant , and the temperature .
This equation may be used either to identify corresponding temperatures or to test some assumption as to corresponding .
In this paper the assumption made is that the critical states are dynamically corresponding states and that corresponding temperatures are equal fractions of the critical temperature .
The equation for internal latent heats is then found to have the form for normal paraffins and for certain halogen derivatives of benzene .
The conclusion is drawn that , subject to the assunlption being correct , the potential of repulsive forces acting between the molecules contributes Go the process of evaporation .
An examination of the alternative view that corresponding temperatures may be identified by the relation is deferred for the present .

