436 On the Origin of the Gases evolved hy Mineral Springs .
By the Hon. R J. Strutt , E.RS .
( Received May 31 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1907 .
) It has long been known that thermal springs , such as those at Bath , give off considerable quantities of gas , which bubbles up with the water , and consists , for the most part , of nitrogen .
Of recent years interest in this subject has been revived by Lord Rayleigh 's observation that helium and argon are present along with nitrogen.* Dewar has used the Bath gas as a practical source of helium , and has observed that it contains a trace of neon ; more recently , Moureuf has exhaustively studied the thermal springs of France , some forty in number , and has found that the same constituents are of quite general occurrence .
It appears from his analyses that the Bath gas may fairly be regarded as typical of the gases of almost all other thermal springs , although a much larger percentage of helium is occasionally met with .
It has been found that such gases , when fresh , are rich in radium emanation , and that the deposit thrown down by the water on standing contains a notable quantity of radium .
It is natural to connect this observation with the discharge of helium by the springs .
I was formerly inclined to think j that the facts were most easily explained by supposing that the supplies of helium and radium were derived from the disintegration of uranium lodes at a great depth by the water ; but this view scarcely seems compatible with the universal presence of helium and radium in mineral springs , which has since been brought to light ; for uranium lodes are very rare near the earth 's surface , and there are fatal objections to supposing that metal to be generally more abundant at greater depths .
S The unexpectedly large quantities of radium found in common rocks || led me to suspect that perhaps they might after all be able to supply the helium and radium products , as well as the ordinary gases and saline constituents of the spring .
With a view to deciding this question , I have examined the gases given off by several varieties of rock , on heating .
The subject has attracted some attention from previous experimenters .
Thus Ansell and * * * S * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 198 , Jan. , 1896 .
t 'Comptes Rend us , ' 1906 , vol. 142 , pp. 1155\#151 ; 1158 .
J ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 73 , 1904 , p. 197 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 77 , 1906 , p. 482 .
|| Loc .
cit. On the Origin of the Gases evolved hy Mineral Springs .
437 Dewar , * and afterwards Tilden , f showed that the hydrogen evolved is probably not occluded in the rock , but has its origin in the reaction of metallic iron and water , which are both constituents .
They also observed the evolution of carbonic acid , nitrogen , and methane .
I do not propose to give minute details of my experimental methods in this paper , since other experiments on the same lines are still in progress and may lead to improvements .
The powdered rock was heated in an iron tube , and the evolved gases were extracted with a mercury pump in the ordinary way .
After explosion with oxygen and absorption by caustic potash , the inert residue , consisting chiefly of nitrogen , wTas measured .
The nitrogen was removed by sparking , and the residue introduced into a vacuum tube for spectroscopic examination .
A further separation of the gases was made by means of Sir J. Dewar 's method of absorption with cooled charcoal .
In this way helium ( with neon ) could be isolated and pumped off .
Argon was absorbed by the charcoal , and could be recovered on warming up .
The volumes of the inert gases were measured in the capillary tube of a gas pipette .
The results for two normal rocks were as follows:\#151 ; Matopo Granite .
Quantity taken , 850 grammes .
The inert residue consisted of\#151 ; Nitrogen Argon . .
Helium Neon . .
11 c.c. 014 c.c. 0'04 c.c. traces Syenite Rock , Mt .
Sorrel , Leicestershire .
Quantity taken , 900 grammes .
Inert residue\#151 ; Nitrogen Argon ... Helium Neon . .
9 c.c. 0-026 c.c. 0 010 c.c. traces In both these cases the vacuum tube , after removal of argon , gave a brilliant yellowr helium glow .
We may compare these analyses with the composition of the Bath gas , as a type of the gases evolved by mineral springs .
The total volume of inert gas ( mainly nitrogen ) is taken as 100 .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 40 , 1886 , p. 549 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , 1896 , p. 455 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
On the Origin of the [ May 31 , Gas .
Argon .
Helium .
Neon .
Bath spring Matopo granite Syenite , Mt .
Sorrel per cent. 1 5 1 -27 0-29 per cent. 0-12 0-36 o-ii traces traces traces These figures make it fairly clear that there is a general resemblance between the gases of mineral springs and the gases of rocks , so far as nitrogen and the other inert constituents are concerned .
In addition to these constituents , rocks give off hydrogen , carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , and a little methane .
The two former are probably secondary products , produced by chemical actions set up on heating .
Carbonic acid is represented at the spring by the dissolved carbonates of the mineral water , while methane is present in the evolved gases .
I think , therefore , that we may consider that the disintegration and partial solution of ordinary rocks by water at a high temperature accounts for the gaseous , as well as the solid , products delivered by springs such as those at Bath .
To collect enough gas from a rock for quantitative examination of the rare gases , repeated operations , requiring considerable labour , were necessary .
Gases from the following rocks were merely examined qualitatively\#151 ; augite syenite , from Laurvig , Norway ; greenstone , St. Ives , Cornwall ; olivine euchrite , Isle of Rum ; red sandstone , East Lothian .
In each case nitrogen was present , and , on sparking down , the spectra of argon and helium were visible .
Neon was not observed , but probably it would have been possible to detect it if more material had been worked up .
An exceptional case was found in commercial pumice-stone , which , I believe , comes from the Lipari Islands ; 480 grammes of this gave 3'5 c.c. of nitrogen , which , on sparking down , yielded 0049 c.c. of inert residue\#151 ; 1*4 per cent , of the nitrogen .
This inert residue showed the spectra of argon and neon , without helium ; and after absorption in charcoal , neon alone remained .
The presence of helium could not be detected with certainty .
With regard to the primary origin of the argon and neon contained in rocks , I have no theory to offer .
It is natural , however , to associate the helium of rocks with the radium they contain .
The relative quantities are quite in accordance with such a view , for the ratio is of the same order as in the strongly radio-active minerals .
I hope to discuss this subject in detail in a future paper .
I have found at least traces of helium in almost all of a considerable collection of ores and other minerals ; but hitherto only one case has been found\#151 ; in certain beryls\#151 ; where there seems to be sufficient reason Gases evolved by Mineral Springs .
1907 .
] to look for any other cause than traces of the radio-active elements to explain its presence .
The evidence , so far obtained , is not favourable to the view that the ionising radiation from ordinary substances is accompanied by production of helium .
Assuming that helium in rocks has been generated situ by radio-active change , it becomes of interest to enquire whether any connection can be traced between the quantity of helium and the time which has elapsed since solidification of the rock .
With a view to answering this question , various modern lavas from Vesuvius of the eruptions of 1809 , 1822 , and 1906 were examined .
Helium was detected in each case , accompanied , as usual , by argon .
I had not enough material to determine the helium quantitatively , but it did not seem to be conspicuously less than usual .
Probably the gases are unable to escape to more than a slight extent from a compact mass of melted lava .
The experiments recorded in this note are not regarded as in any way exhaustive .
It has been thought well , howrever , to publish them , without waiting for the completion of the further enquiry which has been referred to , since they seem to throw light on a geological problem of independent interest .

