1886.1 On the Intra-ovarian Egg of some Osseous Fishes .
447 1886 .
Average number of micro-organism !
found in 10 litres of air by Hesse 's method .
January . . . .
4 March ... ... 26 May . . . .
31 June ... ... * 54 July ... 63 August 105 September . .
43 October 35 Experiments are also recorded showing the enormous increase in the number of micro-organisms present in the air of rooms consequent on crowding .
In illustration of this point the authors cite a series of experiments made in the Library of the Royal Society during the evening of the conversazione in June last , on which occasion the following results were obtained:\#151 ; Royal Society 's Number of micro-organisms Library .
found in 10 litres of air .
June 9 , 1886 .
9.20 p.m. ... ... ... ... ... . .
326 10.5 " ... ... ... ... ... 432 June 10 , 1886 .
10.15 a.m ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
130 In addition to determining the number of organisms present in a given volume of air , the authors have also , in each case , roughly estimated the number falling on a given horizontal surface by exposing dishes filled with nutrient gelatine and of known superficial area , as in the experiments previously published .
IV .
" On the Intra-ovarian Egg of some Osseous Fishes.** By Robert Soharff , Ph. D. , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor McIntosh , F.R.S. Received November 17 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) These researches were carried out while acting as assistant to Professor McIntosh , at the St. Andrew 's Marine Laboratory .
The chief material consisted of the intra-ovarian ovum of the gurnard ( gurnardus ) .
Many other marine forms , however , were examined . .
The paper has been divided into the following five paragraphs : \#151 ; 448 On the Intra-ovarian Egg of some Osseous Fishes .
[ Dec. 9 , I. The Nucleus and its Changes in the Smaller Ova .
In the smallest ova the nucleus occupies almost the whole of the interior , and the nucleoli are mostly attached to the inner surface of the nuclear wall .
In somewhat larger eggs , the protoplasm surrounding the nucleus has increased , and is seen to be divided into a darker internal portion and a lighter external one .
The ring of dark protoplasm becomes separated off from the nucleus in the later stages , and ultimately disappears .
The dark protoplasm has no doubt originated from the nucleus .
The view that this has been caused by a substance being added from the nucleus is considerably strengthened by an observation made by Ransom , and published in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1867 .
He found in fact that the germinal spots were soluble in some of the constituents of the yolk .
At this stage the spots become vacuolate , and assume a variety of different forms , until , the nucleus enters a new phase in the development of the infra- , ovarian egg described in the following paragraph .
II .
The Larger Ova and the Formation of the Yolh Spherules .
The egg has almost reached its final size , although far from being mature , when the nucleus is seen to have shrunk a little , and from it project protuberances on all sides .
These protuberances or diverticula , most of which contain nucleolar particles , are ultimately constricted off from the nucleus , and travel towards the periphery of the egg .
A similar transformation of the nuclear contents has recently been observed by Balbiani , Roule , and Pol , in invertebrate ova , and by Will , in amphibia .
The buds with their enclosed contents form the yolk spherules , the solid mass in their interior soon breaking up into fine granules .
Both Gegenbaur and Balfour speak in support of the view that yolk spherules originate within the egg .
As the egg reaches maturity the nucleus degenerates still more , but I believe it never entirely disappears .
III .
The Fgg Membranes .
Much has been written on this subject , and it is still doubtful how many membranes exist .
Almost all observers , however , agree that in the mature egg there is a membrane pierced by minute pores , which has generally been called " zona radiata , " though other terms , such as vitelliue membrane , egg-capsule , \amp ; c. , have been applied to it .
In the intra-ovarian egg of the gurnard I found a semi-fluid layer inside the zona , corresponding to the " helle Randschicht " described by Gegeubaur in the ova of birds and reptiles .
It disappears in the ripe ovum .
No membrane external to the zona , such as mentioned by various observers , was seen in this or other fish eggs .
With regard tp the pores in the zona radiata , it seems very probable 1886 .
] On a New Form of Direct Vision Spectroscope .
449 that they are filled with processes from the follicular epithelium , and that the egg is nourished in this manner .
In the ova I examined I could not see any processes , but they have been noticed by other observers in larger eggs of fishes , as well as of reptiles and mammals .
IV .
The Follicular Layer .
The follicnlar layer in the mature ovum consists usually of a layer of closely-set cells , which , seen from above , have an hexagonal appearance .
A peculiar modification of the follicular cells is found in the shanny 's egg ( Blenniuspholis ) .
On one-half of the egg 's surface the cells are elongated , their depth gradually increasing towards a central point .
In this way the depth of the cells varies from 0*007 mm. to 0*032 mm. I never noticed follicular cells passing through the zona radiata , as has been described by many authors .
V. Development .
No observation was made as to the origin of the egg , and it could not be determined whether the ovum originated from a simple transformation of an epithelial cell , or whether several unite , as in " elasmobranchs .
" I am inclined to the belief , however , that Brock 's and Kolessnikow 's views are correct , according to whom only one cell is concerned in the formation of the primitive egg .
In small ova the follicular epithelium is composed of a few large cells .
There are several possible ways in which the follicular layer might have originated , either by an aggregation of epithelial cells round the ovum , as in elasmobranchs , or by a collection of connective tissue cells at the periphery of the ovum , or from the nucleus , as in many invertebrates .
I have not been able to come to any definite conclusion on this subject .
The egg membranes appear after the follicle .
The zona radiata is formed first , and , as well as the zonoid layer , it takes its origin from the yolk .
V. " Note on a New Form of Direct Vision Spectroscope .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor of Natural Philosophy , University of Cambridge .
Received November 18 , 1886 .
Direct vision spectroscopes are very useful in the observation of shifting objects , such as aurorae and other meteors .
They are generally in request for telescopic work , and also in all cases where rapidity of observation is of consequence .
Ordinary direct vision

