]\gt ; 1876 .
] On sis of ( VI .
The culus of Chemical Operatious.\mdash ; Part II .
On the of Chcmicnl By Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. , Professor Chcmistry in the niversity of Oxford .
Janunl ( Abstr iLct .
) ccount is lere g of the of our of the ion of ponderable matter , trded as constituted of 1mits compounded of ' ' cights These considel'ations Jead to systems , and only , in the of is expressed by the ] systems we no nbsolute of selection ; but a preference is given to the system as immcdintely to the lnw of even numbers .
The exception preseJlted by the binoxidc of is then considered , au hypothesis ested to account this allom The object of tlIc work is theu chemical event , we to the events of hich it is compounded ?
Section } of th ations is .
It is multiply and divide a chellicl of the f ] by chenlicnl fuucfion , if the sum of cicnts i is equal but .
A method is by 11 hich eqnation be brought under this form .
Such an is termed " " nor\ldquo ; equ tion , it is an equation on may operate by the ules of It is then that eYery c ) ression of the , is , the coatinued product of lmmbel of than one ) , As nrds the of nolmal tions .
Normal equations express the of of the lation , uot only regnrds matter , but as ) nlso .
Thus the asserts not only that the of units of is ical ith of .
and a mit of oxygen , so an ) nnit ] occupied by units of }}{ hc spacc ) ) ) nnits of hydrogen of It is that equatiou one of the primc of hc ittlted f , nnd the equation srill be Sc cdge of the from { ransmut tions or ents ; ] ) be as of of cnts .
be olnp d compoumd is defined as } hich is tled in ) ) stem of eYents onr ns simple Sir B. C. Brodie on the [ May 18 , cnt is an which is not so regarded .
Thus , for example , take the sysfcm of the ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) The event 4 is a event , being the of the , 2 , 3 ; hereiLS the } Cllts 1 , 2 , that systcm simple events , being capable of such a construction .
Section ) the .
\mdash ; The use of an event is given when the tions are deiined by the agency of which the event occurs .
Def. If tilly chemical the change in th nrrangement of the symbols , by which the composition of the units of ' before and after the event respectively is symbolized , be of such a nature that where iu the ement before the event the symbol.ppears the symbol after the event , and before appears after , so that the two in this respect and this respect lone , then the occurs by the substitution of for , which is the " " cause\ldquo ; of the event .
Hence the same event may rise from more than one nlse .
Thus , for exftmple , the event occurs by the substitution of for of for , for these satisfy the condition given in the bove definition .
It is similarly shown that the evcnt occurs by the ion of for rther , that if equation to auy hcmical c be of the ccnrs by the substitutiollS of for for for for If in these substitutions any , the ClClltoCCttl .
S by the nsfercnce of simple eight thus The in three by the snbsl i of for , the drido of propy ] , , being ] the equation being of the form the is all event ring in ))}{ tho of of bmit t ing eqUiLtion to the ] ] of the CRder , 1876 .
] Analysis of emical Events .
Section Elemejtta a of eve .\mdash ; If the equntion to chclnical event be capable of expression the continued product of rational ctors of the form previously given , and being prime ctors of the equation , the event is a simple event incapable of further resolution ; but ] the equations to events may be expl.essed by rntional fnctols , although not of this form .
In this case they dmit of easy anmlysis into other events of which they are the oggregntes .
Tnkc , for mple , the eqnation or hich may be vritten thus , hence constiments being A , the ing event is the action of chlorosulphuric acid upon This equation is of the form , whence , constituents being The Ilalysis of these phenomena here indicated has been effccted by experimeat .
Scction this section the of tical ] is disussed , chemical fmlctions said to be to one nother lcference to a special substitution if fhey nssumc the snme alue when that substitution is effected in them .
Furthel , a method is givell for the of ctiomj , for tho complete theoretical { nnlysis of auy event \mdash ; the theoretical analysis chemical cvent occurring by all lumbcr of specified substitutions , nftmcly , of fo\ldquo ; ' , . . .
, here to bc effected hell ] differcllt in auy lvty by theso substitutions n cnltuncrated , of hicll constitntes the event estion .
1 hhall not ttempt n of this section , ) is cn mcllloir with as uluch b is istcut ith he compl.eheusion of

