494 On the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
[ June 15 , June 8 , 1871 .
The Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day .
Sir PHILIP GREY-EGERTON , Bart. , Vice-President , followed by Mr. W. SPOTTISWOODE , .
Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Dr. Allman and Mr. W. H. L. Russell were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the following Candidates were declared to be duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; " William Henry Besant , M.A. William Budd , M.D. George William Callender , F.R.C.S. William Carruthers , Esq. Robert Etheridge , F.R.S.E. Frederick Guthrie , B.A. John Herschel , Capt. R.E. Alexander Moncrieff , Capt. M.A. Richard Quain , M.D. Carl Schorlemmer , Esq. Edward Thomas , Esq. Edward Burnet Tylor , Esq. Cromwell Fleetwood Varley , C.E. Arthur Viscount Walden , P.Z.S. John Wood , F.R.C.S. Thanks were voted to the Scrutators .
June 15 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. W. H. Besant , Mr. G. W. Callender , Mr. W. Carruthers , Mr. R. Etheridge , Prof. F. Guthrie , Right Hon. R. Lowe , Capt. A. Moncrieff , Dr. R. Quain , Mr. E. Thomas , Viscount Walden , and Mr. J. Wood , were admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part V. Genus Noto-therium , Ow .
" By Prof. R. Owen , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The genus of large extinct Marsupial herbivore which forms the subject of the present paper was founded on specimens transmitted ( in 1842 ) to the author by the Surveyor-General of Australia , Sir Thomas Mitchell , C.B. They consisted of mutilated fossil mandibles and teeth .
Subsequent specimens confirmed the distinction of Nototherium from Diprotodon , and more especially exemplified a singular and extreme modification of the cranium of the former genus .
A detailed description is given of this part 1^71 .
] Dr. J. Casey on Cy elides and from specimens of portions of the skull in the British Museum , and from a cast and photographs of the entire* cranium in the Australian Museum at Sydney , New South Wales .
The descriptions of the mandible , and of the dentition in both upper and lower jaws , are taken from actual specimens in the British Museum , in the Museum of Natural History at Worcester , and in the Museum at Adelaide , S. Australia , all of which have been confided to the author for this purpose. .
The results of comparisons of these fossils of Nototheriumwith the answerable parts in Phascolarctos , and Phascolomys are detailed .
Characters of three species , Nototherium Mitchelli , N. inerme , and N. Victories , are defined chiefly from modifications of the mandible and mandibular molars .
A table of the localities where fossils of Nototherium have been found , with the dates of discovery and names of the finders or donors , is appended .
The paper is illustrated by subjects for nine quarto Plates .
II .
" On Cyclides and Sphero-Quartics .
" By John Casey , LL. D. , M.R.I.A. Communicated by Prof. Cayley , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The curves and surfaces considered in this paper are , I believe , some of the most fertile in properties in the whole range of geometry .
For the pur- , pose of giving a full and comprehensive discussion , I have divided the paper into several chapters .
The following is an outline of the method of investigation pursued , together with a statement of some of the results arrived at .
If we take the most general equation of the second degree in ( a , ft , y , where these variables denote spheres instead of planes , ( a bedlmnpqy\gt ; S , )2=0 , we get the most general form in which the equation of a quartic cyclide can be written .
Setting out with this equation , I have proved that a quartic cyclide is the envelope of a variable sphere , whose centre moves on a given quadric , and which cuts orthogonally the Jacobian of the spheres of reference ( a , / S , y , B ) .
The Jacobian of ( a , ft , y , B ) can be written in a form identical with that of the imaginary circle at infinity in the system of quadriplanar coordinates .
The square of the Jacobian can be expressed by an equation of the second degree in a , ft , y , B. This equation assumes a very simple form when a , ft , y , B are mutually orthogonal .
By means of it I have shown that every quartic cyclide can be written in the canonical form , ace + bft2 + cy2 + + ee2 = 0 , where a , ft , y , B , e are five spheres mutually orthogonal .
These are spheres of inversion of the cyclide , and by incorporating constants their equations are connected by an identical relation , a2 -J- / l2 + ya+o2+12=0 .

