XV .
" On the Structure of certain Microscopic Test-objects , and their Action on the Transmitted Rays of Light .
" By CHARLES BROOKE , M.A. , F.R.S. , Surgeon of the Westminster Hospital .
Received June 1 , 1854 .
In order to arrive at any satisfactory conclusions regarding the action of any transparent medium on light , it is necessary to form some definite conceptions regarding the external form and internal structure of the medium .
This observation appears to apply in full force to microscopic test-objects ; and for the purposes of the present inquiry it will suffice to limit our observations to the structure of two well-known test-objects , the scales of Podura plumbea , and the siliceous lorice or valves of the genus Pleurosigma , freed from organic matter : the former of these is commonly adopted as the test of the defining power of an achromatic object-glass , and the several species of the latter as the tests of the penetrating or separating power as it has been termed .
The defining power depends only on the due correction of chromatic and spherical aberrations , so that the image of any point of an object formed on the retina may not overlap and confuse the images of adjacent points ; this correction is never theoretically perfect , since there will always be residual terms in the general expression for the aberration , whatever practicable number of surfaces we may introduce as arbitrary constants ; but it is practically perfect , when the residual error is a quantity less than that which the eye can appreciate .
The separation of the markings of the Pleurosigmata and other analogous objects , is found to depend on good defining power associated with large angle of aperture .
The Podura scale appears to be a compound structure , consisting of a very delicate transparent lamina or membrane , covered with an imbricated arrangement of epithelial plates , the length of which is six or eight times their breadth , somewhat resembling the tiles on a roof , or the long pile of some kinds of plush .
This structure may be readily shown by putting a live Podura into a small test-tube , and inverting it on a glass slide ; the insect should then be allowed for some time to leap and run about in the confined space .
By this means the scales will be freely deposited on the glass , and being subsequently trodden on by the insect , several will be found , from which the epithelial plates have been partially rubbed off , and at the margin of the undisturbed portion , the form and position of the plates may be readily recognized .
This structure appears to be rendered most evident by mounting the scales thus obtained in Canada balsam , and illuminating them by means of Wenham 's parabolic reflector .
The structure may also be very clearly recognized when the scale is seen as an opake object under a Ross 's ~-lth ( specially adjusted for uncovered objects ) , illuminated by a combination of the parabola and a flat Lieberkuhn , as the writer has elsewhere described* .
The underside of the scale thus appears as a smooth glistening surface with very slight markings , corresponding probably to the points of insertion of the plates on the contrary side .
The minuteness and close proximity of the epithelial plates will readily account for their being a good test of definition , while their prominence renders them independent of the separating power due to large angle of aperture .
The structure of the second class of test-objects above mentioned differs entirely from that above described ; it will suffice for the present purpose to notice the valves of three species only of the genus Pleurosigma , which , as arranged in the order of easy visibility , are , P.formosum , P. hippocampus , P. angulatum .
These appear to consist of a lamina of homogeneous transparent silex , studded with rounded knobs or protuberances , which , in P.formosum and P. angulatum , are arranged like a tier of round shot in a triangular pile , andi n hippocampus , like a similar tier in a qua* See British Association Reports for 1850 .
drangular pile , as has frequently been described ; and the visibility of these projections is probably proportional to their convexity .
The " dots " have by some been supposed to be depressions ; this however is clearly not the case , as fracture is invariably observed to take place between the rows of dots , and not through them , as would naturally occur if the dots were depressions , and consequently the substance thinner there than elsewhere .
This in fact is always observed to take place in the siliceous lorice of some of the border tribes that occupy a sort of neutral , and not yet undisputed , ground between the confines of the animal and vegetable kingdoms ; as for example the Isthmnia , which possesses a reticulated structure , with depressions between the meshes , somewhat analogous to that which would result from pasting together bobbinnet and tissue paper .
The valves of P. angulatum and other similar objects have been by some writers* supposed to be made up of two substances possessing different degrees of refractive power ; but this hypothesis is purely gratuitous , since the observed phenomena will naturally result from a series of rounded or lenticular protuberances of one homogeneous substance .
Moreover , if the centres of the markings were centres of greatest density , if in fact the structure were at all analogous to that of the crystalline lens , it is difficult to conceive why the oblique rays only should be visibly affected .
When P. hippocampus or P.formosum is illuminated by a Gillett 's condenser , with a central stop placed under the lenses , and viewed by a quarter-inch object-glass of 70 ?
aperture , both being accurately adjusted , we may observe in succession , as the object-glass approaches the object , first a series of well-defined bright dots ; secondly , a series of dark dots replacing these ; and thirdly , the latter are again replaced by bright dots , not however as well defined as the first series .
A similar succession of bright , dark , and bright points may be observed in the centre of the markings of some species of Coscinodiscus from Bermuda .
These appearances would result if a thin plate of glass were studded with minute , equal and equidistant plano-convex lenses , the foci of which would necessarily lie in the same plane .
If the focal surface or plane of vision of the object-glass be made to coincide with this plane , a series of bright points would result from the accumulation of the light falling on each lens .
If the plane of vision be next made to coincide with the surfaces of the lenses , these points would appear dark , in consequence of the rays being refracted towards points now out of focus .
Lastly , if the plane of vision be made to coincide with the plane beneath the lenses that contains their several foci , so that each lens may be , as it were , combined with the object-glass , then a second series of bright points will result from the accumulation of the rays transmitted at those points .
Moreover , as all rays capable of entering the object-glass are concerned in the formation of the second series of bright focal points , whereas the first series are formed by the rays of a conical shell of light only , it is evident that the circle of least confusion must be much less , and therefore the bright points better defined , in the first than in the last series .
If the supposed lenses were of small convexity , it is evident that the course of the more oblique rays only would be sensibly influenced ; hence probably the structure of P. angulatum is recognized only by object-glasses of large angular apertures , which are capable of admitting very oblique rays .
The writer has recently , in an address to the members of the Royal Institution , proposed to explain the extreme darkness of the dots , under certain conditions of focus and illumination , by the hypothesis that some of the oblique rays are thrown out of the field by internal reflexion , being incident at the upper surface at an angle too large for emergence ; but this does not appear to invalidate the present hypothesis respecting the course of the transmitted rays .
It does not appear to be desirable that objects should be illuminated by an entire , or , as it may be termed , a solid cone of light of much larger angle than that of the object-glass .
The extinction of an object by excess of illumination may be well illustrated by viewing with a one-inch object-glass the Isthmia illuminated by Gillett 's condenser .
Whien this is in focus , and its full aperture open , the markings above described are wholly invisible ; but as the aperture is successively diminished by the revolving diaphragm , the object becomes more and more distinct , and is perfectly defined when the aperture of the illuminating pencil is reduced to about 20 ? .
The same point may be attained , although with much sacrifice of definition , by gradually depressing the condenser , so that the rays may diverge before they reach the object ; and it may be remarked generally that the definition of objects is always most perfect , when an illuminating pencil of suitable form is accurately adjusted to focus , that is , so that the source of light and the plane of vision may be conjugate foci of the illuminator .
If an object-glass of 120 ?
aperture or upwards be used as an illuminator , the markings of Diatomaceae will be scarcely distinguishable , with any object-glass ; the glare of the central rays overpowering the effects of structure on those that are more oblique .

