I. " Letter to the President from Mr. WILLIAM LASSELL , F.R.S. , dated Malta , May 13 , 1862 , giving an account of Observations made with his large Equatorial Telescope .
" Received May 22 , 1862 .
9 Piazza Stierna , Malta , May 13 , 1862 .
DEAR GENERAL SABINE , -I have ventured to think that a word of my proceedings may be acceptable to you , though I have been much more tardy in getting into observing order than I had expected .
It is indeed only now that I am able to make observations without finding some one part or other of my apparatus capable of improvement .
At length , however , I find my hopes exceeded in the perfection , precision , and facility with which my colossal equatorial is directed and carried on : the driving motion is indeed as perfect and uniform , I believe , as that of any telescope with which I am acquainted .
For the luxury of observing two assistants are necessary , [ May 22 , 108 when the observer has really nothing to do but keep his eye at the telescope .
We have passed through what was called , for this climate , an unusually cloudy winter , and it is only now that the weather is becoming settled for the summer , and only now that I may be said to be entering upon regular work .
I have indeed carefully observed some of Lord Rosse 's nebulae , and in at least two or three instances can fully confirm the spiral character attributed to them by his Lordship , -not , I think , when the objects are well seen , to be overlooked , even when the mind is not previously possessed with the idea .
I am making careful drawings of these nebulse as I see them , some of which closely resemble Lord Rosse 's , while others are so different as to suggest ( with the fact of the lost nebula in our remembrance ) the idea of a real change of form .
With new objects , however , of so much delicacy it is necessary to survey them again and again , under different circumstances , in order to arrive at a trustworthy conclusion .
One object , on which I scarcely intended to bestow any attention , has fascinated me greatly-I allude to the moon , in which I see minute details with a hardness and sharpness and reality I have never seen before .
My opportunities of scrutiny have , however , been fewer than might have been supposed , from my having frequently been engaged in showing this very popular object to many visitors .
Yet , notwithstanding that I have thus been able to see more into the moon than ever before-so much so that I believe , if a carpet the size of Lincoln 's Inn Fields were laid down upon its surface , I should be able to tell whether it was round or square , -I see nothing more than a repetition of the same volcanic texture the same cold , crude , silent and desolate character which smaller telescopes usually exhibit .
Saturn is just now an object of much less physical beauty than when I was here in 1852 .
I observed , however , on the 15th of April , the passage of Titan on to the disk of the planet , near the northern limb , a phenomenon which of course can only be observed in or near the present position of the ring , and therefore interesting from its rarity .
With respect to the climate , I have not yet used this telescope in its most favourable season .
In 1852 I may be said to have gauged the purity of the sky during the Indian summer with an aperture of two feet ; now I have been gauging it during a less favourable season 1862 .
] 109 with a four-foot aperture ; and therefore it is no wonder if I find nights of the requisite degree of tranquillity somewhat more rare .
Yet I find my own physical strength insufficient to allow me to use up half the quantity of available sky , and my next want will probably be some efficient and energetic assistance in the duty of observing .
To General Sabine , I remain , &amp;c. , President of the Royal Society , ec .
WM .
LASSELL .

