On the Structure and Uses of the Spleen .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 26 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 45 .
] Mr. Home , in the course of his late investigation of the functions of the stomach , having observed that the pyloric and cardiac portions of that cavity were separated in many animals by a permanent division , and in most by at least a temporary muscular contraction , during the process of digestion ; and having also found that the food in the pyloric portion has in general nearly the same consistence , was led to consider by what means the quantity of fluid frequently taken at meals could be absorbed from the cardiac portion ; and he imagined the spleen , from its contiguity to the stomach , to be the most natural channel for that purpose .
To ascertain whether liquids do really pass from the stomach by any other channel than the pylorus , that passage was secured by a ligature in a living dog , and five ounces of fluid coloured with indigo were injected into the stomach .
At the end of half an hour , 'two ounces were brought up by vomiting ; and the dog being killed , one ounce was found remaining in the stomach ; so that two ounces had escaped .
The spleen was turgid : and upon making a transverse section of it , the cut surface presented an appearance of molecules or vesicles of a white colour , surrounded by the small ramifications of the arteries and plexuses of small veins .
In Mr. Home 's next experiment , he endeavoured to detect the course of the fluid from the stomach of a dog , by employing a decoction of madder ; but though the urine appeared to be somewhat tinged with the madder , no such colour could be discerned in the spleen .
At the suggestion of Mr. William Brand , he next substituted tincture of rhubarb , the presence of which might be made very evident by the addition of an alkali , which occasions it to assume a brownish red colour .
After having learned , by various trials , by what time and within what period the effect of rhubarb might be perceived in the urine of a man , he again made a dog the subject of experiment ; and after he had tied the pylorus , about three ounces of a mixture of tincture of rhubarb with water were at intervals injected into his stomach .
Upon killing this dog , at the expiration of eight hours and a half , his bladder was found distended with urine highly tinctured with the rhubarb .
The spleen was turgid ; and , when cut through and examined by a magnifying-glass , appeared to consist of two parts intermixed , but very distinguishable from each other by their colour ; the one was transparent , in the form of small circles or ovals , and surrounded by a different structure , which was vascular , of a red colour , but of a lighter hue than the substance of the liver .
This spleen was immersed in water , and being cut into small pieces , the water became discernibly impregnated with the rhubarb , as was rendered manifest by the test of alkali .
On the contrary , an equal portion of the liver of the same dog , treated in the same way , gave no such colour to the water , but only tinged it with blood of a red colour .
Although fluids are thus found to pass from the stomach to the spleen , the vessels by which they are conveyed have not been detected , nor does Mr. Home entertain much hope of such a discovery .

