On a new Register-Pyrometer , for measuring the Expansions of Solids , and determining the higher Degrees of Temperature upon the common thermometric Scale .
By J. Frederic Daniell , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 17 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trcas .
1830 , p. 257 .
] In the year 1821 , the author published in the Journal of the Royal Institution an account of a new pyrometer , and of some determinations of high temperatures , in connexion with the scale of the mercurial thermometer , obtained by its means .
The use of the instrument then described was , however , limited ; and the author was subsequ.ently led to the invention of a pyrometer of a more universal application , both to scientific researches and to various purposes of art .
He introduces the subject by an account of the late attempt of M. Guyton de Morveau , to employ the expansions of platina for the admeasurement of high temperatures , and for connecting the indications of Wedgwood 's ' pyrorneter with the mercurial scale , and verifying its regularity .
The experiments of that philosopher were by the contraction of porcelain , and by actual comparison with those of the platina pyrometer , at rno higher temperature than the melting point of antimony ; but they are sufficient to establish the existence of a great error int Wedgwood 's original estimation of his degrees up to *that point .
This he carries on by calculation , on the hypothesis of uniform progression of expansion , up to the melting point of iron ; the construction of his instrument not admitting of its application to higher temperatures than a red heat , in which platina becomes sof ' and ductile .
Mr. Daniell shows , by an examination of M. Guyton 's results , that he has failed in establishing the point he laboured to prove ; namely , the regularity of the contraction of the clay pieces .
The pyrometer of the author consists of two distinct parts ; the one designated the register , the other the scale .
The first is a square tube of black-lead , 8 inches long , cut out of a common crucible of that material , closed at one end , and having at the other a portion of about six tenths of an inch in length cut away

