A Series of Observations of the Satellites of the Georgian Planet , including a Passage through the Node of their Orbits ; with an introductory Account of the telescopic Apparatus that has been used on this Occasion ; and a final Exposition of some calculated Particulars deduced from the Observations .
ByWilliam Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read June 8 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 293 .
] Since in the examination of objects so minute and so distant as these satellites , it is necessary not only to magnify for the purpose of removing them from the body of the planet itself , but also to collect as much of their light as may be , in order to render the impression they make on the eye sensible , no instrument less than a 20-feet telescope is sufficient for discerning them ; and even with an instrument of this description it is but with a favourable atmrosphere , and through a small part of their orbit round the primary , that Dr. Herschel has been able to make his observations ; and he has also occasionally availed himself of the greater light that is to be obtained by concave eye-glasses , notwithstanding the smallness of the field of view , and other objections to their use .
The magnifying powers employed on these occasions have been from 300 to 800 times ; sometimes one , and sometimes another being used , according to the states of the air or moon , or other circumstances .
The observations here recorded , were made principally from the year 1787 to 1798 inclusive , and they are given in the order in which they occurred with all the phenomena noticed each time , and notes of correction added from subsequent observations respecting stars mistaken for satellites , or satellites wrongly numbered .
For Dr. Herschel always added a configuration to his descriptions , in order to avoid mistakes , and in general made , by previous estimate , a sketch of the places where known satellites might be expected ; some misconceptions were unavoidable , in consequence of the interruptions to his observations from cloudy or moon-light nights , as well as from small stars that unexpectedly interfered .
From all the observations thus made , and from accurate measures taken by different micrometers , the author infers the nodes of the two first satellites to have nearly the same longitude of 1651 ?
; that their inclination is also the same , 78ยง 58 ' ; and the motion of both , from their ascending node to the greatest elongation , retrograde. .
The periodic time of the first is found to be 8'1 161 " 56 " 55 ; and that of the second 13d Ilh 8"1 19s ; their distances at greatest elongation 36 " and 48 " respectively .
To these determinations respecting the orbits of the satellites , Dr. Herschel adds his estimate of the distances to which they must move from the body of the planet before they become visible by his 20-feet telescope .
The first requires to be at more than half its greatest elongation .
The second also becomes invisible when it is within half its greatest elongation .
If there be an interior satellite , as large as the first , he imagines it would be visible through so small a part of its orbit , as not to be seen for two nights together .
Notwithstanding this difficulty , the author thinks lie has seen an interior satellite .
And with regard to exterior satellites , though nothing has been correctly ascertained , the number and positions of different objects recorded is such , that the author enumerates as far as a supposed sixth satellite .

