9 .
" Physiological Remarks on several Muscles of the Upper Ex ?
tremity .
" By F. O. Ward , Esq. , Medical Student at King 's College , London .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. There is a remarkable fold in the tendon of the pectoralis major muscle , described by all anatomists , but the purpose of which has never yet , as the author believes , been explained .
The muscle itself consists of two portions , one smaller and upper , arising from the clavicle , and passing downwards and outwards to an insertion in the humerus at a greater distance from the shoulder-joint than the place where the tendon of the larger and lower portion of the muscle , which arises from the sternum and ribs , and has a general direction upwards and outwards , terminates .
Thus the respective portions of tendon belonging to the two divisions of the muscle are found to cross each other ?
the margin of that proceeding from the lower division passing behind , and appearing above that which proceeds from the upper fibres of the muscle .
The forces exerted by each portion of the muscle being thus applied to parts of the bone at different distances from the fulcrum , act with different mechanical powers ; which the author finds in every case to correspond exactly with the variations in the effects required to be produced , under different circumstances , by these mucular actions .
Those muscular fibres , the tendon of which is inserted nearest to the centre of motion , and which consequently act by a shorter lever , are adapted to motions requiring a less force , but a greater velocity : and such is precisely the mechanied condition of the lower portion of the pectoralis major , which is employed more especially in bringing down the arm , when previously raised , as in striking with the hammer , pickaxe , &amp; c , where velocity is chiefly required , the weight of the instrument held in the hand sufficiently sup ?
plying the diminution of force .
On the contrary , the lever by which the upper portion of the same muscle is enabled to act being , from the more distant insertion of its tendon , of greater length , is calcu ?
lated to procure force at the expense of velocity , and is therefore peculiarly fitted for the performance of those actions by which the arm is elevated and weights raised ; these being precisely the actions in which such muscles are employed .
Adverting , also , to the respective obliquities in the direction of their action , the author traces the same express correspondence between the mechanism employed and the purpose contemplated .
He pursues the same line of argument and obtains the same results in extending the inquiry to the structure and uses of those muscles , such as the coraco-brachialis , and the anterior fibres of the deltoid , which cooperate with the upper division of the pectoralis major ; and the teres major and latissimus dorsi , which combine their actions with that of the lower division of the pectoral muscle .
This diversified adaptation of parts , he observes , forms the chief characteristic of the mechanism of Nature .
Operating with unlimited means , she yet works with scrupulous economy ; in all her structures no power is redundant , nor a single advantage lost : so that , however completely an arrangement may be subservient to one primary purpose , we find , on renewed examination , an equally accurate ad ?
justment to various secondary and no less important ends .
The author then proceeds to inquire into the methods employed for determining the absolute and relative strength of muscles ; and proposes , for that purpose , the application of the constant and equable stream of galvanism afforded by the new battery invented by Mr. Daniell .

