]\gt ; The Properties of Systems .
I.\mdash ; The Osmotic Pressure of Congo-red of some other Dyes .
By W. M. BAYLISS , , Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
( Received April 19 , \mdash ; Read May 6 , 1909 .
) nents made in by Linder and Picton*upon solutions of arsenious sulphide indicated that colloidal solutions possess a real osmotic pressure , although the authors themselves claim no quantitative value for their results .
In 1905 further experiments were made , but great culties were met with , and , although it seemed evident that osmotic pressure present , the numerical values obtained were irregular and small .
The first definite proof that certain colloidal solutions are able to exert a not inconsiderable osmotic pressure was given by in the case of the colloids of blood-serum .
When separated by a gelatin membrane from a solution obtained by filtration of some of the same serum through Martin 's gelatin filter , the pressure rose to about 30 mm. of mercury .
Waymouth ReidS found that solutions of carefully purified haemoglobin an undoubted osmotic pressure when separated from water by a membrane of parchment-paper , but regards this fact as evidence that obin forms a true solution .
Moore and Parker determined the osmotic pressures of the colloids of white of egg , of serum , and of soap solutions , while Moore and made measurements of those of -proteins , of gelatin , and of gum-acacia .
Hufner and Gansser and , somewhat later , independently of one another , made careful determinations of the osmotic pressure of hcemoglobin solutions , to which reference will be made in a subsequent It will be noticed that , in all these cases , with the exception of arsenious sulphide and soaps , the chemical constitution of the body investigated is nncertain , although the molecular weight of haemoglobill has been calculated from its content in iron .
The experience of those who had worked with arsenious sulphide and with soaps was not for further research , 'Chem .
Soc. Trans vol. 67 , p. 72 , 1895 . .
Soc. ' vol. 87 , p. 1909 , 1905 .
Journ. Phybiol vol. 19 , p. 322 , 1896 , and vol. 24 , p. .318 , 1899 .
S 'Journ .
Physiol vol. 33 , p. 12 , 1905 .
'Amer .
Journ. vol. 7 , p. 261 , 1902 .
'Biochem .
Journ vol. 2 , p. 34 , 1907 .
'Archiv .
Physiol. ' elmann ) , 1907 , p. 209 .
'Physiol .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , in 'Journ .
Physiol vol. 39 , 1909 .
Dr. W. M. yliss .
[ Apr. 19 , so that it seemed desirable to investigate the behaviour of colloids of known chemical constitution and nJolecular weight , the latter to be as small as possible , in ordel that the osmotic pressure should be sufficiently great .
By this means it might be possible to estimate the number of molecules taking part in the formation of " " ates \ldquo ; or colloidal elements , and also to obtain more definite information as to the effect of electrolytes on the osmotic pressure .
Certain of the aniline dyes folYn colloidal solutions , if we may take Graham 's criterion of non-diffusibility through parchment-paper as decisive .
One of these dyes is congo-red , whose constitution and molecular are well known .
My attention was first called to the fact that solutions of this body have a considerable osmotic pressure by phenomena met with in purifying it by dialysis .
It was striking and , in fact , a matter of some inconvenience , to find that the contents of the parchment-paper tubes rapidly increased in volume by taking up water and , unless some of the fluid was emoved , continuously overflowed .
-red , therefore , formed the startingpoint of the observations to be recorded in the present paper .
Owing to their high colouring power , the aniline dyes present many advantages for the study of colloidal properties .
In the investigation of osmotic pressure , for example , the slightest leak in the membrane of the osmometer is detected at once .
The particular form of osmometer used was that of Moore and Roaf , * modified in order to at will the fluid on the side of the membrane opposite to the solution under investigation .
Bepeated distilled water could be made until no further change in the osmotic pressure occurred , while the effect of the presence of various electrolytes or other bodies could be examined .
A diagram of the apparatus is given in fig. 1 .
Congo-red , as obtained from Kahlbaum , was foumd to contain an appreciable amount of sodium chloride .
In order to remove this , hydrochloric acid was added until the red colour had vanished and the free acid , precipitated , was washed on .
a filter with distilled water .
It was soon found that the free acid went into a beautiful deep blue colloidal solution , which passed through the filter .
( This observation has been published by PeletJolivet and Wild , since my experiments were made .
) I was obliged , therefore , to resort to prolonged dialysis against distilled water .
This dialysed solution was placed in the osmometer .
It gave a very small oslnotic pressure , about 6 mm. .
Subsequent experiments , to be described elow , were made to determine the osmotic pressure of this blue colloid .
1909 .
] The Properties of Systems .
more accurately .
Dilute solution of sodium hydroxide was then run through the lower chamber in order to convert the free acid into the sodium salt .
This solution was replaced at intervals of 24 hours until the outside solution remained permanently slightly alkalin this process the osmotic pressure rose gradually to about 40 mm. .
Repeated changes of , Osmometer of Moore and Roaf .
, Mercury manometer , read by means reading microscope .
-tube , with inner smaller tube , to allow a current of water , or other fluid , through the outer , lower , chamber of the osmometer .
, Tube , connecting the two chambers when the stopcock is .
This is done in order to control the zero of the manometer at any ) , Inlet tube to the lower chamber .
, Outflow .
, Soda-lime tube to exclude atmospheric , Tube from flask of distilled water or other fluid .
The osmometer was immersed in a thermostat .
distilled water were then similal'ly run as lon , as the pressure continued to rise .
After ten days , equilibrium was attained with a pressure of mm. Hg at a temperature of C. The molecular weight of congo-red ( the -sodium salt of benzidinetetrazo-di-naphthylamine-di-sulphonic acid ) is .
On the basis of an osmotic pressure of atmospheres for a molar solution ( as true solution ) at , a l-per-cent .
( grammes per litre ) solution at should have a pressure of mm. Hg .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , At the end of the above experiment , the solution was pipetted out of the osmometer and its concentration determined by evaporating to dryness a known volume and drying the residue to constant weight in a toluene bath in the usual way .
It was found to be per cent. , so that , if the dye had been present as separate molecules , the osmotic pressure should have been mm. Hg .
The actual value found was 793 mm. Hg , or 97 per cent. In other experiments the agreement with theory was not so good , e.g. 207 mm. , instead of a theoretica1228 mm. , or 91 per cent. , for a -percent .
solution at instead of 84 , or 92 per cent. , for a -percent .
solution at ; and 128 instead of 146 , or 88 per cent. , for -per-cent .
solution at It is obvious that these values could only be obtained if the greater part of the elements responsible for the production of osmotic pressure were present as single molecules , since any value greater than one-half the theoretical implies that a of the active elements consists of single molecules .
When the molecular weight of haemoglobin is calculated from the content in iron , a value of about 12,000 to 14,000 is obtained .
* Now this is the same number obtained from the osmotic pressure determinations of Hufner and Gansser , and of Roaf .
Haemoglobin , therefore , exists in solution in single molecules , although , like congo-red , it does not pass through parchment-paper .
The molecular weight of -red , however , is very much less than that of haemoglobin , only about one-twentieth in fact , so that it is more surprising to find it to behave as a colloid .
On this account it is advisable to examine how far -red exhibits other properties associated with colloids .
To what degree does a moJecule of such dimensions show the characteristics of matter in mass , possessing surfaces ?
In the first place , what appearance does a solution of congo-red show in the ultra-microscope ?
Acco.rding to MichaelisS the particles present are copic , that is , resolvable into separate bright points .
The same statement is made by Pelet-Jolivet and Wild My observations are not entirely in agreement with those of the investigators mentioned .
There are undoubtedly , a few scattered } points to be seen , but these only * See Schultz , ' Die Grosse des Eiweissmolekuls , ' p. 31 , Jena , 1903 .
S 'Deutsche Med. Wochensch No. 42 , 1904 .
1909 .
] Properties of Colloidal Systems .
account for a very small part of the total quantity of the dye present in the solution , as can easily be shown as follows : The blue colloidal free acid of congo-red , even in extreme dilution , shows the track of the beam of light filled with shining points of a beautiful copper colour and of nearly equal size , so far as their diffraction images enable one to judge .
If a drop of dilute alkali be added to this solution , the track of the beam suddenly vanishes , occasionally a bright point moves into the field and back again .
These few particles seem to be slightly larger than those of the acid .
When the illumination is carefully adjusted and made as brilliant as possible , close attention shows that the track of the beam is very faintly visible as a bluish grey haze , not resolvable into separate points , at all events not with the means at my disposal , viz. , arc light , Zeiss objective .
As I am inclined to interpret the phenomena , the faint haze is the optical expression of the part of the dye present in the molecular state , and the rare points are due to aggregates of a number of molecules , produced by the action of traces of electrolytes , to which -red is enormously sensitiye , as will be shown below .
The solutions described by observers as being resolvable into particles by the ultra-microscope were , in all ) robability , not sufficiently free from electrolytes .
The ultra-microscope , then , does not throw much on the nature of solutions of congo-red , since , although it does not contain particles large enough to be visible by means of this instrument , other undonbted colloids , such as ferric hydroxide , are similarly non-resolvable , but show a faint haze .
* Moreover , the phenomena described above in the case of congo-red are very like those qeen by Michaelis in certain protein solutions , namely , a part visible as ] and the rest not so resolvable .
The property of carrying an electric charge , not as an ion , but on undissociated molecules , is shared by -red with nlntter in 1nass .
In Whetham 's boundary apparatus the dye moves as a whole towards the anode and is , therefore , negatively .
The origin of the charge is obscure , but is , perhaps , derived from electrolytic dissociation .
In accol.dance with its nature as an electro-negative colloid , -red is aggregated or cipitated by cations , especially powerfully by and -valent ions .
It is also precipitated by an electro-positive colloid , such as toluidine-blue or ferric hydroxide .
The precipitate has the properties of an adsorption- * Zsigmondy , ' Sir ErkenntIliss der Kolloide , ' Jena , p. 148 .
chiv , ' vol. 179 , pp. 205\mdash ; 208 , 1906 .
phenomena seen in the boundary apparatus are of complexity , being accompanied by slight electl.olysis .
These will more properly form the subject of a separate paper .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , compound , in that its composition varies with the relative concentrations of the two colloids present in the solution .
As I have shown elsewhere , behaviour of -red in respect of adsorption by cotton and other materials is that of an electro-negative colloid .
The statement is sometimes made that colloids have no definite point of saturation .
Congo-red , on the contrary , has , in a certain sense , a somewhat indefinite limit of solubility .
It appears , however , that many colloids , especially the inorganic ones , tend to gregate and deposit when their particles are brought into too close apposition ; it may be that traces of electrolytes are responsible for this behaviour , which is thus not the same as the crystallisation of a super-saturated true solution .
Recent research tends to show that there is no real line of demarcation to be drawn between colloids and crystalloids .
Congo-red is evidently one of those interesting cases which have some of the properties of both classes .
In any case , it does not seem reasonable to expect fundamental differences as ards properties dependent on dimensions of the active elements between a large molecule such as congo-red , containing some 70 atoms , and a particle of colloidal gold containing a similar number of atoms .
The properties referred to are those dependent on diffusion , such as osmotic pressure and those dependent on surface development .
The fact that , in the case before us , true solution and colloidal solution are one and the same thing suggests several interesting questions .
At what molecular size do bodies begin to show properties due to surface developlnent , although still in the condition of single molecules ?
Again , why should we not be able to reduce the number of molecules in the of colloidal gold until they consist of single molecules ?
In this case we should have a true solution of gold in the metallic state , not in the ionised condition .
It is possible that differences of electric potential and surfacetension oppose obstacles to such a phenomenon .
The great sensitiveness of ed to traces of electrolytes has already been incidentally referred to and this fact makes it a matter of considerable difficulty to obtain the maximum readings of the osmotic pressure as given above .
For example , a solution of congo-red , containing per cent. of the dye , dialysed ainst repeated changes of ordinary distilled watel until no further rise of pressure took place , gave an osmotic pressure of only 118 mm. Hg , whereas on using wacer which had been distilled after the addition of potassium anate and sulphuric acid and a sccond time after the addition of barium hydroxide , kept from contact with air by sodalime tubes , the pressure rose to ) .
Hg .
The ordinary distilled water * ' Biochem. Journ vol. 1 , pp. 175\mdash ; 232 , 1906 .
1909 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
used above was a fairly good sample , a conductivity of not more than 5 gemmhos at while the purer water had a conductivity of gemmhos .
If still better water had been used , no doubt the full theoretical value of 228 mm. for the osmotic pressure would have been reached .
Since the ordinary distilled water contained carbonic acid , I tried the effect of water through which carbon dioxide gas had been passed until its conductivity was 23 gemmhos .
By titration , this solution was found to contain gra1nme per litre .
The osmotic pressure fell from 207 to 120 mm. Hg .
The powerful action of so weal an acid as carbonic is rather and makes it to subject stronger acids to detailed investigation .
When the solution of carbonic acid in the above experiment was replaced by a decinormal solution of sodium chloride , the motic pressure fell in the course of 24 hours to 15 mm. Hg .
When equilibrium was established , the concentration of sodium chloride on both sides of the membrane would be about one-twentieth normal .
Linder and Picton*foun that when aggregation of arsenious sulphide was brought about by an electrolyte , it was impossible to reverse the process by washing with distilled water .
Similarly , although repeated changes of distilled water were passed through the osmometer after the sodium chloride , until the issuing water gave no reaction with silver nitrate , the osmotic pressure onJy rose to about three-quarters of its initial value .
It is possible that very much more dialysis have produced further effect , but it seemed more important to use the apparatus for other since all these experiments are of necessity of long duration .
This washing with water was , in one case , continued for three weeks , and , although after this process the osmotic pressure had risen only to three-quarters of what it was before the action of sodium chloride , no further was to be detected on the mercurial when a fresh of water was added .
If a more delicate manometer had been used , it is quite possible that the pressure would have been found to be qtill 1ising very slowly , since the extreme slowness of } oval of the last tlaces of electrolyte is characteristic of adsorption phenomena .
In to test the action of alkali , a solution of the blue free acid placed in the osmometer .
Only a small pressure of a few millimetres obtained , too small to read accurately on the mercurial manometer .
When dilute sodium or ammonium hydroxide was run into th lower chamber , the pressure rose rapidly as long as the alkali combined with the dye-acid .
Biochem Journ , Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , When excess was present , as shown the permanent alkaline reaction of the solution , the pressure fell again .
The explanation is , no doubt , that the aggregating action of the cation made itself felt .
In view of the results of Moore and Roaf* on the augmentation of the osmotic pressure of protein solutions under the action of alkali , the fact noted by me is of some interest .
It seems probable bhat , in the case of proteins , the rise of osmotic pressure is the result of the formation of new colloids by chemical action , these " " salts\ldquo ; having smaller " " ates \ldquo ; than the colloid .
If we were unaware of the chemical nature of congo-red and observations were being made of the osmotic pressure of the solution of tlJe free acid , we might imagine that alkali caused a large increase in the osmotic pressure of this body .
The fact is that the blue colloidal solution of the free as will be shown later , consists of large particles , easily resolvable by the ultra-microscope , and producing only a small osmotic pressure .
When alkali is added , the salt , ordinary congo-red dye , is produced , and this , as above , exists in solution in single molecules with high osmotic pressure .
The fact that , as an electrolyte is added in stages , pausing sufficiently long between each addition to allow equilibrium to be Qhed , there is a definite osmotic pressure for each step , so that a continuous smooth is obtained , shows that the action of a low concentration of electrolyte must be exerted on a part only of the molecules present .
For example , it is not every molecule that unites with another one , since , if so , there would be intermediate between full and half osmotic pressure .
From the fact that these stages do exist it follows that a number of molecules nre left .
The process is to the association which takes place in ethyl when dissolved in benzene , where the apparent nlolectl ] weight of the alcohol rises from 00 to 208 in , radation as the concentration rises from to rammes to 100 of This can only be explained by the assumption of a steadily increasing numl ) of molecules becoming associated with others , while the rest remain free .
Ultra-microscopic observations of the actions of electrolytes on congo-red , although so1newhat difficult to interpret , confirm the results riVen by nleas]re- ments of osmotic pressure A dilute solution , showing only a very few catered bright points , on the addition of a solution of carbonic acid or a natural salt contains a greatly increased number of these bright pal.ticles , which vary considel.ably in size .
In this respect they contrast with the particles seen in the colloidal solution of the acid , which are strikingly , .
66 .
Lillie , ' Amer . .
of Phyf , ' vol. 20 , pp. 127\mdash ; 169 , 190 Walker , ' Introductiou to ) emistry , ' 4th 1907 .
1909 .
] The ties of Systems .
unifolu1l in size .
It appears that the action of an electrolyte is , so to speak , selective , leaving some molecules free , while others to aggregate into particles , consisting themselves of very different numbers of molecules .
Faraday showed , more thau 50 years ago , *that the ruby-red solutions of gold which he prepared by reduction of gold oride were suspensions of minute pal.ticles of metallic gold .
He also noticed that the colour of the solution ecame blue under the action of sodium chloride in dilute solution , and was precipitated by solutions .
Both these effects were absent if a snlall amount of " " jelly\ldquo ; had previously been added to the gold solution .
This latter " " \ldquo ; action of " " stable\ldquo ; colloids is now well known , tlJe basis of Zsigmondy 's " " gold mlber \ldquo ; as a characteristic of proteins Congo-red behaves , as regards this protection from precipitation by electrolytes when a stable colloid is present , in the same way as the ianic colloids .
It may be noted , in passing , that this is a phenonlenon usually ascribed to surface properties .
The dye also is protected from adsorption by paper , under the influence of electrolytes , when a trace of gelatin is present .
It was , therefore , of interest to examine the influence of stable colloids on the reduction of osmotic pressure produced by elecGrolytes .
Since my experiments on adsorption above referred to indicated that this protective action was greater when the stable colloid had an electric charge of the same sign as that of the dye , or of opposite to that of the precipitati1ig ion , I chose for the present experiments a dialysed solution of Grubler 's serum-albumin , to which a trace of ammonium hydroxide was added in the first experiment .
The solution in the osmometer contained about per cent. of the dye and per cent. of serunl-albumin .
When dialysed ainst tilled water , the osmotic pressure rose to 42 mm. of mercury .
was then displaced by a decinormal solution of sodium chloride .
To my surprise , the pressure fell to zero in about 14 hours .
Moreover , as in the experiments without stable colloid , it was found that after 14 days ' changes of distilled water the ) ressure could only be back to three-quarters of its original value .
Measurements of the electrical conductivity of the water after interchange with the colloidal solution showed that the latter rted with its electrolytes very slowly .
They were probably held in a of adsorption by the protei11 as well as by the dye .
In another experiment I first tested the particular solution of serumalbumin used and found in the proportion of 5 c.c. to ) .
of o1lethousandth normal -red solution , precipitation by oue-hundredth 'Phil .
Trans vol. 14 ) : As to the Nature of the Solutionls , see pp. 160 and 172 ; Precipitation by Salt , p. 166 ; Protection from Action of Salt by " " Jelly p. 175 .
BiochenL Journ vol. 1 , p. 201 , 190 Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , normal calcium sulphate was prevented , in the absence of the protein complete precipitation occurred .
In order to be quite certain of adequate protection , I added 10 .
of the albumin solution to 50 .
of the dye and placed the mixture in a Schleicher and Schull diffusion thirnble of parchment-paper tied on to a glass tube fitted with a cork and a long narrow tube to act as manometer .
This was placed in water contained in a large test-tube and then immersed in a thermostat at C. The osmotic pressure rose to 200 mm. of water in the course of 30 hours , being 94 per cent. of the theoretical value .
Calcium sulphate in one-bundredth normal solution was then put into the outer tube instead of the water .
In about 24 hours the pressure had fallen to 50 mm. and no further fall took place .
In this case a certain protection was shown , since , without the albumin , the pressure would have gone down nearly to zero .
The apparent disagreement between the results of osmotic pressure measurements and the naked eye appearances are , I think , to be explained in the following way .
When the contents of the osmometer in the last experiment were poured into a glass vessel and observed carefully , it was obvious that , although no precipitation had taken place , the solution was distinctly more turbid than a similar one to which no calcium sulphate had been added .
On examination under the ultra-microscope , the former was resolvable into a multitude of distinct , but not brilliant , particles ; whereas solutions of congo-red itself , as already shown , are not resolvable .
It is clear , therefore , that a certain degree of regation had in reality taken place , although the particles formed are much smaller than those formed when calcium sulphate acts upon congo-red in the absence of a protecting colloid .
In this latter case , they are large enough to fall as a precipitate .
The actual values of the osmotic pressure observed , 200 and 50 mm. , show that , under the conditions of this experiment , aggregates of four molecules are formed .
It appears that , so far as congo-red is concerned , the mode of action of a stable colloid is to form , under the influence of an electrolyte , a colloidal complex with the dye , which complex , although consisting of several molecul and therefore , when formed , causing a large fall in the osmotic pressure of the solution , is yet in particles sufficiently minute not to fall as a precipitate .
The reason why the regates formed are small is , no doubt , connected with the of surface-tension caused by the protein .
It is to be noted that , unless the solution of albunlin electrolyte had been compared with a similar solution without the ectrolyte , it would have been supposed that complete protection from the action of the electrolyte had been brought about , since no true precipitation occurs .
1909 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
Results similar to the above have been obtained in the case of arsenious sulphide , aggregation without precipitation also occurs here .
In order that the albumin shall be efficient as a protecting colloid it is necessary that it be of the same sign as regards its electric charge as the arsenious sulphide , that is , ative ; if electro-positive , it tends to aid the action of the electrolyte .
I am unable , at present , to state definitely whether the same considerations apply to the action of electrolytes and stable colloids on gold hydrosols , the " " gold number\ldquo ; in fact .
I cannot make out any difference in the appearances under the ultra-microscope of mixtures of gold hydrosols and serum-albumin , with and without calcium sulphate .
To the naked eye , there is perhaps a slight tendency to a more purple colour in the case of the former , but nothing approaching the blue of the mixture of gold and electrolyte in the absence of the albumin .
The ultra-microscope shows also that the particles in the blue solution are larger and less numerous than in the ruby-coloured ones .
It is possible that complexes of gold particles and protective colloid , of the kind described by Zsigmondy , be formed without change of colour of the .
The whole series of phenomena in these cases of protection are of much complexity and in need of further investigation .
It is somewhat remarkable that congo-red is the only dye which I have been able to make use of which shows this combination of non-diffusibility through parchment-paper with existence of molecules in solution .
The greater number pass through parchment-paper with more or less rapidity , although many colloidal properties , so that no permanent osmotic pressure can be obtained .
Aniline-blue , with a molecular weight of 734 , does not pass through .
A solution containing per cent. an osmotic pressure of mm. Hg instead of the theoretical one of mm. Hg , a mean " " gregate \ldquo ; of two molecules .
It must be stated , however , that this solution was apparently not free from electrolyte , since , although when the experiment ceased no further permanent rise in osmotic pressure was produced by change of , there was still a certain amount of " " initial osmosis The displaced water , also , showed a fairly high conductivity , 40 gemmhos , which did not diminish the last five days .
This outer solution was always faintly blue , due , as I shall show in another paper , to dissociation of the dye and permeability of the membrane to the products of this dissociation .
In a similar way , the dialysate of congo-red is very faintly red .
the ultra-microscope the appearance of the solution removed from the osmo1neter was very like that 'Zur Erkenntnis der Kolloide , p. 116 , Jena , 1905 .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , of -red , as described above ; a faint haze , with bright particles here and there , these bright points much more numerous than in congo-red .
I am inclined , therefore , to attribute the low osmoti pressure found to incomplete removal of electrolytes , the solution really being one of single molecules , but , to the electrolytes , a large number of these are ated to particles , the rest being single .
The free acid of congo-red , as already stated , forms a deep blue colloidal solution , with comparatively large particles , easily resolved by the ultra- microscope .
These particles are of a very nearly uniform slze .
In view of the debated question to the source of osmotic pressure , it is of interest to see whether an unquestionable suspension , such as this is , has an appreciable osmotic pressure and , at the same time , to determine the number of particles present in unit volume .
Since , as shown above , the salts of this acid have so considerable an osmotic pressure , while that of the particles of the acid would probably only be small , it is obviously of the greatest importance to ensure the absence of traces of alkali , whether in the water used or from glass vessels .
The apparatus shown rammatically in fig. 2 was devised for this purpose .
It will probably be found of use in the investigation of other colloids sensitiye to traces of electrolytes , such as arsenious sulphide .
All the tubes in contact with the fluids in the osmometer are of quartz and the containing vessel of glass is thickly coated with paraffin inside .
The membrane is a Schleicher and Schull parchment-paper thimble , as used by Waymouth Beid and by Hufner .
It is necessary to test these thimbles very carefully for holes and , for my purpose , to extract before use with hydrochloric acid and distilled water to remove soluble salts .
In future experiments it would perhaps be better to use membranes of collodion .
The distilled water must be carefully prepared .
I found it best to distil tap water ( New River ) after adding potassium anate and sulphuric acid , and again after the addition of barium hydroxide .
When essential to exclude carbon dioxide entirely , the water from the quartz condenser drops directly into the osmometer , as shown in the figure .
In an actual experiment congo-red acid , the outer water was at first made acid with hydrochloric acid to ensure the absence of any salt of congo- red in the contents of the osmometer .
The solution in the inside had been dialysed for a long time against distilled water .
The concentration at the end of the experiment was per cent. of the free acid .
At the beginning of the experiment no measurable osmotic pressure was obtained ; the acid was in the form of a precipitate , due to the presence of rochloric acid .
Distilled water , from potassium permanganate and sulphuric acid , was then allowed to flow from the condenser , gradually the hydrochloric The Properties of Systems .
acid .
It is interesting to note that the osmotic pressure rose distinctly , while the outflowing water still gave reactions with silver nitrate and with FIG. 2 .
on to which the parchment-paper thimble is tied .
This tube has branch , connected by a short piece of rubber tubing to , and thus , wheu the clip on tubing is released , the inner and outer chambers are put in counection .
This is of importance to control the zero poiut .
, Narrow bore tube , serving as manometer .
, Outlet tube from outer chamber .
, Tube conducting water from the quartz condenser , , Flask to collect the outflowing water , apart from contact with the atmosphere .
, Tower containing dilute sulphuric acid .
, Soda-lime tower .
, Flask for boiling water .
, Trap to collect spray .
, Glass wool .
, Outlet for water in vessel is thickly coated with paraffin and kept iu a thermostat .
The tubes , and are of quartz .
Gunzberg 's test , and , in fact , the pressure had risen to 60 mm. of water when 60 c.c. of the water neutralised c.c. of ammonia .
The distilled water , containing carbonic acid no basic substance , was rum in intervals VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; B. Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , of 24 hours umtil no further rise in the osmotic pressure took place .
The value attained was 91 mm. of water , or 68 mm. at C. There seems no possibility whatever of the presence of a salt of the dye in the above conditions .
In any case , there was a fairly large pressure when free hydrochlorio acid was detected in the outer fluid .
A further reason for denying the presence of alkaline bodies in the water used is that , if this had been so , the pressure would have continued to rise as long as fresh water was run in , until finally the reat pressure of the salts of -red would have been reached and the contents of the osmometer converted enbirely into the salt .
The conclusion must be that a definite osmotic pressure can be exerted by a solution consisting of an undoubted suspension of particles , resolvable under the ultra-microscope .
When water distilled from over barium hydroxide was run in , there was not much further rise in the osmotic pressure , the maximum being only a few millimetres higher .
It appears , therefore , that this colloid is not particularly sensitive to traces of free acid .
If now we proceed to calculate , from the concentration of such a colloidal solution as that of the above experiment , what the osmotic pressure should be if the dye were present in single molecules , we find that it is 20 times that actually found .
Assuming for the present that the kinetic theory of the osmotic pressure of colloids is , this means that the number of molecules forming a colloidal particle of the free acid of congo-red is 20 .
This being so , and the separate particles being easily seen in the ultra- microscope , it seemed to be a point of interest to attempt to estimate ths dimensions of the particles in the manner described by Siedentopf and Zsigmondy .
For this purpose a part of the contents of the osmometer at the end of experiment was diluted 1300 times , so that the particles might be sufficiently far apart to be counted .
This counting was somewhat difficult , owing to the rapid movement of the particles .
The mean of a number of determinations was between 8 and 9 in a volume of cubic millimetre .
The undiluted solution , therefore , contained in 1 .
There is , however , a possibility not to be lost sight of .
As I shall show in a later aper , this acid of -red appears to be very slightly soluble in water at , in true solution , ionised .
amoullt dissolved at room is infinitesimal , it may be sufficient to vitiate collclusions drawn from solutions necessarily very dilute .
Accordhave made determinations , siluilar , with solutions of one and a-half and of twice the dilution of that one .
The three are laced together in the table for .
It will be seen that the values are , utionD d 1909 .
] Properties of Systems .
Now , the total weight present in 1 .
of the original solution is milligrammes , so that the weight of each particle is Further , the specific gravity of the solid acid is , determined by hing under toluene in a pyknometer .
* Hence , the diameter of each particle is 310 We may , perhaps , go even further still .
to the osmotic pressure measurements and assuming the kinetic origin of this pressure , each particle contains on the average some 20 molecules ; so that , if this theory be correct , we ought to be able to obtain an approximate value for the molecular dimensions of this body .
When calculated from the data given , the weight of a molecule of congo-red acid comes out to be amme , or nearly times that of hydrogen .
And the diameter The molecular weight being , the number of molecnles contained in 1 gramme-molecule comes out The number of molecules in a -molecule of a perfect is usually estimated at about Considering the many sources of error , the iesult obtained for the molecular dimensions of our colloid does not seem very out .
This being so , the hypothesis of the kinctic of oslnotic pressure is , so supported .
The chief difficulty the estimation of the nlber of particles under the ultra-microscope is , in the case before us , the lively ovements they * Ostwald-Luther , ' Phys.-Chem .
Mess Auil .
, p. 147 , 1902 .
Walker , ' Introd .
to Phys. 4th ed. , p. 217 .
See Perrin , ' omptes Rendus , ' vol. 147 , ) , 1908 .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 19 , manifest .
In order to stop this movement , I mixed a part of the diluted solution , as used for the previous measurements , with an equal volume of a 2-per-cent .
solution of gelatin , warmed just sufficiently to liquefy it .
This method was used by J. Duclaux , his ations of ferric hydroxide .
Although the gelatin used by me had been soaked in repeated changes of toluene-water , it retained a certain amount of its adsorbed electrolytes ; so that on adding the bluo colloid to it , a distinct change of colour towards purple resulted .
Althouoho the particles were seen to be immobilised , it did not seem worth while to proceed further with the laborious determinations , since the change of colour indicated a change in the colloid .
The determinations of molecular dimensions given above are intended to show the possibilities of the method .
The exact numerical data are , no doubt , capable of correction when a more satisfactory means of immobilising the particles has been found .
The values obtained appear high , even for a molecule containing 70 atoms , such as the one in question .
From Zsigmondy 's observations with colloidal gold it would seem that particles of these dimensions should be resolved by the ultra-microscope .
It is trus that the impression given to the observer is that the solutions of congo-red are just on the .
Moreover , the fact that molecules of -red are unable to pass parchment-paper shows that they far exceed in dimensions those of crystalloid bodies .
Further experiments are in progress , as also others in the manner of those of Perrin with suspensions of gamboge .
It would be premature to draw conclusions from the results of the } pages as to whether the particles as wholes are responsible for the osmotic pressure , or whether only a part of each one , such as adsorbed ions , alone is active in this respect .
So much may be said , that my observations speak decidedly in favour of the kinetic theory of the osmotic pressure of colloids .
According to this theory the ' ' Brownian movement\ldquo ; of the particles corresponds to the molecular movement assumed in the kinetic theory of gases .
Important recent confirmation ' of this vie is to be found in the experiments of Perrin already alluded to , which show that the kinetic energy of a colloidal particle is identical with that of a molecule .
This observer shows that , if we take the number of molecules contained in one gramme-molecule of a perfect gas to be 6 or 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 147 , pp. 131\mdash ; 138 , 1908 .
, regards size of pores in parchment-pnpel ; see Bechhold , 'Zeit . .
Phys Chem. , vol. 64 , pp. 328\mdash ; 342 , 1908 .
Ctes Rdus , ' vol. 146 , pp. 967\mdash ; 970 , and , pp. , 1908 .
1909 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
as iven by the kinetic theory , the osmotic pressure of a solution containing , olecules per unit volume is atmos .
When deduced from the rate of fall of the particles in a gamboge suspension , Stokes ' formula to apply , and taking to refer to particles , the oslnotic pressure works out to be tmos .
When deduced from the distribution of particles in a ] column , after attaiment of equilibrium , the formuia atmos .
From my observations , determining the concentration of particles by direct enumeration under the ultra-microscope , the formula atmos .
Such close approximations to the theoretical value must be more than mere coincidence .
Ramsay and Senter*also concluded , from experiments on the density of arsenious sulphide solution taken by differe1lt methods , that the particles behave as if in true solution .
On the other hand , it is evident that my experiments no support to the theory according to which the osmotic pressure of a colloidal solution is due , in some not clear , to ions associated with the colloidal .
It is difficult to uuderstand how these ions can still exert their osmotic pressnre when of a complex system , must move and act as a whole .
This much may be -red am motic pressure which is at its highest when foreign olytes most excluded .
This must be mderstood as in no way as the uItimate source of the negative , electrolytic dissociation of colloid itself .
It is very doubtful ether electrolytes in the state of adsorl ) tion are ionised at all .
Ruer finds that the chlorine present in colloidal zirconium hydroxide vives no reactiott with silver Similarly i the case of ferric hydroxide , the chlorine can only be detected after lction of the colloid by nitric acid .
The general conclnsion to is , I think , whether a body present in solution be in the of rticles , or ions , ench of * B. A. Reports , 1901 .
In Journ. Phys. made the lggestion that BrowIlian llovement in colloids is to nluvement in true solutions .
'Zeits . .
Anor .
Chem vol. 43 , pp. 83\mdash ; 93 , 1905 .
The Properties .
Colloidal Systems .
these acts as an individual and equivalent element in the production of osmotic pressure .
Summa:ry .
Congo-red , although a colloid in the sense of not bein diffusible through parchment-paper and exhibiting certain other colloidal properties , has an osmotic pressure equal to that which would be given if it were present in true solution in single molecules .
The solutions are not resolvable into particles by the ultra-microscope .
The theoretical osmotic pressure is only to be obtained in the complete absence of extraneous electrolytes .
Even the carbonic acid present in ordinary distilled water is sufficient to cause a marked fall in the osmotic pressure .
The manner in which electrolytes produce this fall is by causing aggregation of molecules to particles .
This is the same whether acid , alkali , or neutral salt be in question .
The action of a stable colloid in protecting against the effect of electrolytes is shown to consist , in the cases of congo-red and arsenious sulphide , in the production of minute aggregates , which , although causing fall in osmotic pressure by diminution of effective concentration , are not of sufficient size to precipitate .
Hence the protective power can only be regarded as a limited one , due probably to the formation of complex colloids .
The free acid of congo-red forms a blue colloidal solution when dialysed .
This is easily resolvable under the ultra-microscope , but gives a definite and measurable , though small , osmotic pressure , about 14 mm. Hg for a 1-per-cent .
solution .
Assuming the kinetic theory to be correct , this means that the ates contain , molecules .
Estimation of molecular dimensions are given on the basis of enumeration of the number of particles in unit volume by means of ] ultra-microscope .
The values found are considerab]y lal.ger than the accepted ones for water , etc. The whole of the results are capable of explanation on the assumption that colloidal particles possess the letic e of but do not lend sUppot.t to any view which postulates the necessary presence of electrolytes .
expenses were by a rant from the Government Grant Conlltittee of the Royal Society .
)

