442 The Apex of the Leaf in Osmunda and lodea .
[ Mar. 20 those -which are solely connected with this convolution .
Accordingly it is found that there is a considerable difference in the amount of paralysis for voluntary movement produced in the different muscles and especially that some of them are found to undergo a considerable amount of recovery in the course of a relatively short time , while others remain permanently and completely paralysed .
The paralysis ( for volitional impulses ) is most pronounced in the muscles of the toes and hind feet , and in the hamstrings and glutsei .
The paresis is sufficiently obvious , hut less marked in the arm-muscles than in those of the lower limb , while in the trunk-muscles it is extremely difficult to determine what movements are purely voluntary , what are associated movements , and wffiat are purely reflex movements .
We are unable , therefore , " to say positively how far the influence of the will over these muscles has been abolished by the establishment of the lesion.* Tt will , " therefore , be more advantageous to defer the complete account of the condition of " these animals until the opportunity is afforded by post mortem examination of verifying the extent of the lesion and of tracing the resulting secondary degenerations .
II .
" Preliminary Note on the Apex of the Leaf in Osmunda and Todea .
" ( From the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
) By F. 0 .
Bower , F.L.S. Communicated by W-T .
Thiselton-Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received March 7 , 1884 .
It has long been accepted , in accordance with the investigations of Sadebeck , that there is at the apex of the young leaf of the fern a two-sided , wedge-shaped , apical cell , and that , after this cell has lost its identity by periclinal , and subsequently by anticlinal divisions , the growth of the leaf is continued at the margin by the persistent activity of a linear series of marginal cells .
It is true that this is the mode of development of many fern-leaves , but , as my observations show , it does not apply for all cases , while those exceptional cases are particularly interesting as occupying an intermediate position in this , as also in other , respects between the true ferns , on the one hand , and the Marathacece and Cycadece on the other .
It is among the Osmun- * Since the above was -written we have removed in two other animals the excitable portions of the external surface , in addition to the excitable portion of the marginal convolution .
Complete hemiplegia has been the result j the paralysis affecting not only the muscles of the limbs but also those of the head and neck and of the trunk , whereas in animals in which only the excitable portions of the external surface ( the motor regions of Ferrier ) have been removed the paralysis is but partial , and confined chiefly to muscles of the limbs.\#151 ; ( Note added March 20 , 1884 .
) 1884 .
] On the Most Widened Lines in Sun-spot Spectra .
443 dacece that these exceptional cases occur .
In the young leaves of Todea superba and of Osmunda-cinnamomea it was found that the apex is occupied by a well-marked , three-sided , conical , apical cell , from the three sides of which , segments are cut off in regular succession , as at the apex of the stem of Equisetum .
The apical cell is so placed that one side faces the ventral side of the leaf , while the remaining two sides are obliquely disposed with regard to the dorsal side of the leaf .
No clearly marked marginal series of persistently active cells have been found , giving rise to the pinnae , as is stated to be the case for the typical ferns .
Further , there appears to be no strict relation between the points of origin of the pinnae and the segments cut off from the apical cell .
The pinnae arise in acropetal -order .
In itself no great importance is to be attached to the difference between a three-sided and a two-sided apical cell .
For example , it has been clearly shown in a paper by Treub , on the vegetative organs of Selaginella Martensii , that the two forms of apical cell are to be found on different shoots of the same species .
But in the case of the leaf of the fern , the whole development , as described by Sadebeck and by Ruy , is so closely connected with the'existence of a two-sided cell that a departure from that arrangement is to be regarded as of more importance than would otherwise be due to it , and it appears to me to supply an intermediate step towards the more complex leaf of the Marathacece and Cycadece .
Finally , it is believed that this is the first described case of a clearly marked , three-sided , apical -cell occurring in the leaf of any plant .
Hole asserts that there is a wedge-shaped apical cell at the apex of the leaf of Angioptris , and describes it as being " of irregular cross-section .
" My own observations on this point , which will shortly be described in detail , show that there is no single , functionally active , apical cell in the leaf of Angiopteris evecta .
III .
" On the most Widened Lines in Sun-Spot Spectra .
First and Second Series , from November 12 , 1879 , to October 15 , 1881 .
" By J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received February 22 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) A preliminary report by Mr. Lockyer , written before the reduction of the observations given in the present paper was complete , was read to the Royal Society on December 15 , 1881 , and printed in the Proceedings ( vol. 33 , p. 154 ) ; In the present paper the author describes the plan of the observations and of their discussion , and presents some general conclusions .

