On a Method of examining the Divisions of astronomical Instruments .
By the Rev. William Lax , A.M. F.R.S. Lowndes 's Professor of Astronomy in the University of Cambridge .
In a Letter to the Rev. Dr. Maskelyne , F.R.S. Astronomer Royal .
Read June 1 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 232 .
] Since the utmost precision in making astronomical observations , and in reading off the indication given by any instrument , will be of no avail if the instrument itself be not divided with proportional accuracy , the author felt the importance of estimating the probable amount of errors that might occur in Bird 's method of dividing by continual bisection , and has also contrived a method of examining the divisions of any circle , and of measuring , within certain limits , the actual errors in every part of it .
The apparatus by which this examination is effected , is first minutely described , and consists of a brass arc , rather more than 900 in length , placed concentric with the circle to be examined , and firmly attached to the frame which supports the microscopes .
On this arce an upright pillar is made to slide , carrying a micrometer microscope , which may thus be fixed at any distance not exceeding 90 ?
from one of the microscopes belonging to the circular instrument ; and as the position of the microscope is inclined , it may be made to point to the same division upon the circle that is under the micrometer itself .
In the process of examination which follows , the position of the point of 1800 having been first ascertained by means of the opposite micrometers belonging to the instrument , the arcs of 90 ?
on each side are next examined by the moveable microscope , and the errors noted accordingly + or - .
The microscope is then placed at the distance of 60 ?
from the micrometer , and the first sextant is thus compared with every succeeding arc of 60 ?
in the circle ; and in the same manner , the first octant is compared with every succeeding arc of 450 , and the first arc of 30 ?
with so many of the succeeding arcs of 300 as are necessary for determining each 15 ?
of the whole circle .
The next intervals employed by Mr. Lax are those of 50 and 3 ?
, from which , and from their multiples , the value of 10 , 20 , and 40 , are derived ; and , in a similar manner , all the succeeding intervals down to the smallest interval to which the circle happens to be divided .
However , since the method of examination itself is liable to some error , the author computes the extent to which this may possibly amount ; and upon a circle of one foot radius , he finds the greatest aggregate error to which he could be liable , in points most remotely deduced , might be 9'f63 : but in a circle of three feet radius , the error would be reduced to 3 " 121 ; and with glasses of higher magnifying power , and by frequent repetition of the reading off , the true position of every point might be determined with sufficient exactness for every practical purpose .
The time required for such an examination is estimated to be about ninety-eight hours , and the labour , no doubt , is very considerable ; but when the errors thus ascertained have been duly noted in a table , Mr. Lax considers the utmost pains that can be bestowed upon any instrument to be amply compensated by the confidence given to every subsequent observation by means of it .
It is also proposed occasionally to obviate the effects of unequal expansion in any particular observation , by comparing the arc by which any angle has been measured with several succeeding equal arcs , until the multiple exceeds the whole circumference , and thereby includes the opposite errors , which arise from this cause in different parts of a circle , and correct each othlier .

