292 Lord Elphinstone and C. W. Vincent .
[ Nov. 20 , degree , the power of absorbing the ultra-violet rays of the spectrum , though they are inferior in this respect to benzene and its derivatives , to which class of bodies they are so closely allied .
2 .
Terpenes with the composition C16H34 have a greatly increased absorptive power for the more refrangible rays , that is to say , they withstand dilution to a greater extent the greater the number of carbon atoms in the molecule .
3 .
Neither the terpenes themselves nor the oxidised or hydrated derivatives occasion absorption bands under any circumstances when pure , but always transmit continuous spectra .
4 .
Isomeric terpenes transmit spectra which generally differ from one another in length , or show variations on dilution .
5 .
The process of diluting with alcohol enables the presence of bodies of the aromatic series to be detected in essential oils , and even in some cases the amount of these substances present may be estimated .
Several diagrams in illustration of the kind of absorption exerted 4\gt ; y the different substances are presented with the complete paper .
III .
" Preliminary Note on Magnetic Circuits in Dynamo- and Magneto-Electric Machines .
" By Lord Elphinstone and Charles W. Vincent , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Received July 26 , 1879 .
The experiments which form the subject of the present note were made in connexion with an investigation as to the best form for the construction of a dynamo-electric machine , intended to furnish currents of high intensity in great quantity .
The principle deduced applies equally to magneto-electric machines .
The source of power in all dynamo-electric machines being electromagnets whose cores are already slightly magnetic , it appeared to us necessary to consider the conditions under which the initial force of such machines is best obtained .
For this purpose we made use of a ( J electro-magnet having a core of soft iron 2 inches in diameter and 36 inches long .
The arms of the [ ) were 4 inches apart .
The exciting helices were two sheet copper reels , 12 inches long , fitting closely upon the uprights of the [ J , but readily removable .
Each of these reels was coiled with 200 yards of No. 14 double covered copper wire .
Two cores of soft iron , of the same diameter , and each 12^ inches long , and which could be magnetised by the same helices , were also .employed .
The principal armature was of soft iron , 8 inches in length , by 2 inches in width , and 1 inch thickness , rounded at the ends .
Its face 1879 .
] On Dynamo- and Magneto-Electric Machines .
295 fitted approximately close to the poles of the U magnet , whose faces it completely covered when placed upon them .
Other armatures and magnets were employed , the form of which we propose to describe in a future paper .
The iron of which the ( J and the straight cores were made was found to be exceedingly plastic as regards molecular magnetic polarity .
In a few seconds after the cessation of an electric current from twenty quart Bunsen cells acting through the above helices , they were incapable of attracting and holding even fine iron filings .
The U magnet tested with a suspended magnetic needle was found to retain some magnetic polarity after many days ; in fact , it is doubtful if the magnetism ever entirely disappeared , except when the core was subjected to special treatment .
On the other hand , the straight cores lost their induced magnetism more rapidly , and when , having been demagnetized either by time or by the mode described further on , they were placed in the line of the magnetic dip , they showed poles in accordance therewith ; and on reversing the position of the core , these poles were immediately reversed without its being necessary to resort to striking the bars or other means of putting them in a state of vibration .
It was thus demonstrated to our minds that if iron of similar quality , and in this form , were made use of for the electro-magnet cores in a dynamo-electric machine , the initial force producing the electric currents of the machine could not be due to residual magnetism , but rather to the lines of magnetic force of the earth .
The current from four Bunsen cells sent round the U magnet fixed the armature so firmly that it could not be pulled , or even slid off , by the utmost exertion of one man 's strength .
On breaking battery contact , if both poles were completely covered , a direct pull failed to separate armature and magnet .
The armature could , however , though with difficulty , be slid off ; the difficulty of movement greatly increasing as the edge of the poles was approached .
For instance , on attempting to slide ..the armature off the north , the south , or both poles , the resistance became greater as the point of final communication between the poles through the moving armature was approached .
This was found to be the case whatever time had passed between the rupture of contact and the first movement of the armature .
( Sometimes many days elapsed .
) In very many experiments it was found , moreover , that , provided neither pole had been completely uncovered , on sliding back the armature to its normal position , the magnet , which with its stand and coils weighed over 58 lbs. , could be lifted by it .
A current from four Bunsen cells , almost momentary in duration , sufficiently magnetised the core to produce all the above effects .
If , whilst the current flowed round the ( J magnet , the armature 294 Lord Elphinstone and C. W. Vincent .
[ Nov. 20 , rested on one pole only , it was of course strongly held ; but on breaking contact it was at once set free , and fell off if not balanced ; the magnetism of the JJ core immediately falling to its minimum , as shown by suspended test needles .
If , however , the most minute point of connexion existed between the armature and the other pole , in addition to its complete contact with the one it covered , it continued to be firmly held long after battery contact was broken .
It being thought that possibly the effects described were partly due to molecular attraction of the iron atoms when brought into close contact under magnetic stress , the poles were coated with a layer of tallow , but if this was sufficiently thin , the magnet could still be lifted by the armature after breaking battery contact .
" When the tallow was broken into small lumps , allowing light to be seen between magnet and armature , the same result was obtained .
Thus absolute metallic contact was found to be unnecessary for the retention of a considerable amount of magnetism by the U core and its armature , when in magnetic circuit .
With a piece of writing paper interposed between the poles and armature , they were held together with great force long after battery contact was broken ; but when the distance was increased by the interposition of cards , nails , or wires , to of an inch , the residual attractive force was very much lessened .
When the magnetic circuit becomes more open the residual magnetism dies away in about the same proportion as the attractive force of core and armature , whilst under the influence of the battery current it becomes less when the distance between them is increased .
Interposition of thick glazed note paper caused such a diminution of the residual magnetism that the magnet could no longer be lifted by the armature .
The experiment was varied by putting lengths of fine silk thread straight across between the armature and the magnet ; in this , as in the former experiments , the armature was firmly held , and the magnet could be lifted by it .
There was no point of actual metallic contact , and light could be seen over both magnetic fields , except at the thin lines where the silk threads were .
The 581b .
magnet , when lifted by the armature , was thus literally suspended in the air ( like Mahomet s coffin ) by the magnetism remaining in the almost closed circuit , and this long after the exciting electric current had ceased .
( The experiments were made at intervals of four hours , twenty-four hours , three days , four days ; the armature had always ultimately to be wrenched off .
) The same result was obtained with plates or slips of zinc , copper , platinum , silver , and aluminium foils , gutta-percha tissue , embroidery cotton , \amp ; c. , and appeared to depend entirely on the distance between poles and armature , irrespective of the nature of the interposed body .
1879 .
] On Dynamo- and Magneto-Electric Machines .
When the straight cores were placed on the poles'of the U magnet , and a current passed round the latter , attraction ceased the moment the battery contact was broken ; but if , while the current was passing , the armature was placed on the poles of the cores , the whole system was firmly held together , though the current no longer flowed .
There would appear to be no limit to the length of time during which the stored-up magnetic force exerts itself in such metallic circuits ( closed , or nearly so ) as are described above , for it was found that , after periods varying from one to fourteen days from the time of a momentary passage of an electric current round the cores , the attractive force was as great , or even greater , than at the first moment .
A small electro-magnet , ( J -shaped , with limbs 6 inches long , having a core of f-inch iron , and helices consisting of 4 layers of No. 16 covered copper wire , had for its armature a similar ( J core uncoiled .
The uncoiled ( J was hung up , and the electro-magnet held beneath it , the poles of each being opposed : a current from four Bunsen cells was then sent through the coils for a few seconds .
Not only did the electro-magnet ( weighing , with its coils , several pounds ) remain firmly attached to its armature , but the hanging on to it subsequently of 8 pounds additional weight failed to detach it .
A further proof of the large amount of magnetism held captive in a circuit thus closed was afforded by the following experiments .
On connecting the ends of the wires from the helices with a galvanometer and resistance-coil , deflections varying from 40 ' to 90 ' were obtained with a resistance of 1,700 ohms in circuit each time the armature was forced away from the poles of the large ( J magnet , after the passage of a current from four cells of a few seconds ' duration .
By careful manipulation , sparks between the ends of the helix wires were also obtainable each time the closed magnetic circuit was opened .
( In ope case a week had elapsed betwixt the passage of the current and obtaining of the spark .
) In all these experiments , when the circuit was completely closed there was no external magnetism apjJhrent , but on slightly breaking contact between the poles and armature , magnetic poles could be detected .
Slight irregularities of the surfaces in contact likewise caused the development of poles .
A heavy magnetic needle , 4 feet distant from the magnet , if deflected by the y magnet , uncovered by its armature , 45 ' , would fall back to 5 ' when the current ceased .
If the poles were now covered by the armature , the needle went to 0 ' .
Passage of the current from four cells would now give a deflection of about 38 ' ; on the current ceasing the needle would come back to 0 , and rise again to 5 on removal of the armature : but if , instead of immediately pulling off the armature , the two ends of the wires of the helices were connected 296 On Dynamo- and Magneto-Electric Machines .
[ Nov. 2(L together , and then the armature was forced off , the needle would swing 20 ' and fall back to 5 ' very slowly ( in about fifteen minutes ) .
If both poles of the ( J magnet were caused to be of the same name , and the armature placed upon them , there was no attraction after breaking battery contact .
The straight cores , if placed upon the ( J magnet connected by the armature , and then magnetised in such a way that the poles of the cores faced like poles of the ( J magnet , retained no magnetic polarity when taken away from the system , whereas when they formed part of such a closed circuit as we have above described , the bars retained sufficient polarity to affect a magnetic needle for some time .
We may here remark that the attractive force of electro-magnets for each other , in what we call open circuit , is not nearly as great as in a closed circuit .
For instance , the ( J magnet could not be lifted by the straight cores placed upon its poles , even with a current from sijc -Bunsen cells running round the helices ; but on bridging the circuit with the armature the whole mass , weighing 82 lbs. , could be raised from the ground with the current of only two cells , and quite irre1879 .
] On the Transit of Venus .
297 spective of the position of the exciting helioes , whether both were on the magnet , both on the cores , or one on the magnet and one on a core .
From the foregoing experiments it appears clear that the more near the approach to a closed magnetic circuit , the stronger is the field of force , and the longer is retained the magnetism of the mass or masses of iron constituting the circuit .
The same rule holds good with regard to permanent magnets .
In closed circuits the attractive force is at its height , and diminishes in intensity as the magnetic field is more extended .
But the parallel goes beyond this , for the more open the magnetic field , the more rapidly is the magnetic force itself dissipated .
These principles have guided us in the construction of a dynamo-electric machine of whose magnetic circuits we here present a sketch , and which we hope to describe more fully in a future paper .
In the accompanying diagram six fixed electro-magnets are shown , having alternate poles , opposite to which , and at a very short distance , are placed three other electro-magnets so arranged with opposing poles as to form three nearly closed circuits .
Coils of wire are made to revolve so as to cross the intervals between these opposing poles , and the electric currents induced in the moving coils are made to pass round the electro-magnets .
IY .
" Further particulars of the Transit of Venus across the Sun , December 9 , 1874 ; observed on the Himalaya Mountains , Mussoorie , at Mary-Villa Station , Lat. 30 ' 28 ' N. , Long. 78 ' 3 ' E. , height above sea 6,765 feet , with the Royal Society 's 5-inch Equatoreal .
" Note III .
By J. B. N. Hennessey , F.R.S. Received October 4 , 1879 .
1 .
The object of the present note is to add to Notes I and II* some particulars of the transit not detailed*)^ !
those notes .
The latter contained only sufficient extracts from my observatory notes in connexion chiefly with the three contacts which I observed ; as , however , various other facts , besides the contacts , were developed in course of the transit , and elicited remarks from me at the time , it seems desirable that a complete transcript of these observatory notes should also be put on record ; both in connexion with what hereafter follows , and also to meet any possible future requirements of details , such as expressed by Captain Tupman in his discussion of the mean solar parallax , f * See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. .
" Vol. xxiii , pp. 254,379 .
t Royal Astronomical Society , " Monthly Notices .
" Vol. xxxyiii , p. 452 .
VOL. XXIX .
Y

