Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Effects of Stress .
1881 .
] violent agitation of the gills by the muscle attached to the stigmatic pit would become useless , supposing an exposure of the gill-lamellae to the atmosphere became by degrees habitual with the ancestral Arachnidan .
In proportion as these hypothetical creatures acquired the habit of aerial respiration\#151 ; the deepening and arching in of the stigmatic pit would be favoured , and the atrophy and final disappearance of the muscle which was attached to its inner surface , and had mechanically brought it into existence , would also be directly promoted .
# .
A further confirmation of the view now advanced is found m the remarkable Javanese Arachnidan T This Arachnid has not four pairs of lung-sacs like Scorpio , but only two pairs , corresponding to the two foremost lungs of Scorpio , and to the second and third gill-book-pairs of Limulus .
Nevertheless , the four segments of the abdomen posterior to these are each marked by a pair of shallow stigmata placed in line with the orifices of the pulmonary sacs of the two anterior segments .
When the internal structure corresponding to these parts is examined , it is found that a large muscle ( similar to the similarly placed muscle of Limulus ) is inserted into each of the four right and four left stigmata in the segments posterior to the pul-monary sacs .
The two segments into which the two pairs of pulmonary sacs are sunk , have no such muscles .
The pulmonary sacs are , therefore , in this case , also , to all appearance , enlarged muscular stigmata , from which their former muscles have disappeared by disuse and atrophy .
XI .
" Effects of Stress on the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals .
Part I. " By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the University of Tokio , Japan .
Communicated by Professor Fleeming Jenkin , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This investigation was undertaken , in the first instance , with the view of finding whether the gradual mechanical change which goes on with lapse of time after stretching wires ( which the author described in a former paper , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 510 ) is associated with a corresponding change in thermoelectric quality .
But the experiments brought to light some very unexpected results with regard to the immediate effects of stress , and the present communication deals with , these only .
Part I is further limited to the effects of longitudinal pull on iron .
The author is proceeding to extend the same inquiry to other metals and to other modes of stress .
Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Effects of Stress on [ June 16 , The method consisted in applying load to wires by the weight of a hanging tank containing water , which could he run in and run out at any desired rate , the junction between the stressed and unstressed parts of the wire being kept at 100 ' C. and 18 ' C. approximately .
The thermoelectric effects were measured by the deflections produced in a short-coil mirror galvanometer , adjusted for great sensibility .
The effect of applying a moderate amount of longitudinal pull to iron wirefe was found to be negative ( that is to say , the position of iron in the thermoelectric series , with the given condition of temperature , was shifted towards antimony ) .
This result was merely a confirmation of the observations of Sir William Thomson ( " On the Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals , " " Phil. Trans. , " 1856 ) .
But , instead of increasing up to the breaking point , the effect reached a negative maximum , after which it decreased and sometimes even changed to positive before the wire broke .
This result was confirmed by a large number of tests of different wires .
When loading was stopped shortly before the wire broke , and the load was gradually withdrawn , the thermoelectric effect passed back through a negative maximum , different from the first , and , finally , with no load , it reached a positive value as a consequence of the stretching which had taken place .
( This positive effect due to previous stretching when the load was withdrawn had been observed before by Magnus and by Thomson .
) The fact that the thermoelectric quality passed back through a negative maximum during unloading showed that the maximum which had occurred during loading was not the result of an antagonism between the influences of stress and strain .
A second loading of the same wire gave a series of thermoelectric values greatly different from those got in either of the two former processes of first loading and unloading , and showing another negative maximum long before the new limit of elasticity was reached .
When that limit was passed , the subsequent drawing out of the wire was associated with a relatively rapid change in the thermoelectric quality towards positive .
When , after a wire had once been stretched , any given load was gradually applied and removed successively within the new elastic limit , the thermoelectric effects for equal intermediate amounts of stress during loading and during unloading were widely different , but passed through a cyclic series of values for each repetition of the cyclic change of stress .
This effect is shown in the paper by curves which give the relation of stress to thermoelectric current .
The curves got by putting on load ( not exceeding the elastic limit ) and by taking it off are far from coincident , but form a closed figure containing a wide area .
This cyclic phenomenon is experimentally studied at length in the paper , and the thermoelectric effects of various cycles of loads are 1881 .
] the Thermoelectric Quality of Metals .
401 shown graphically in a number of diagrams .
To apply a load , remove Lrfc of it re-apply it , and continue the application , forms a wide but \#163 ; \#163 ; loop on the " on\#187 ; curve .
Similarly , to remove tad stop during the removal , and replace pari , and then go on again " fh ttremoval forms a loop of a like kind on the " off " curv* The curves got during the gradual removal of load always show a negative maximum , eyen though the applied load has been less than that required to pass the negative maximum during loading .
The effect of beginning to reload a stretched wire which has been unloaded is at first feebly positive , passes a positive maximum , becomes negative , passes a negative maximum , and finally , if the wire does not break too soon , becomes once more positive before rupture takes place .
The leading characteristics of the cyclic action mentioned above are sufficiently obvious from the diagrams , but can scarcely be described verbally , except at great length .
The curves show a lagging of thermoelectric effect when the stress is changed .
It is proved that this lagging of effect is not a time action , for it is shown to be independent of the rate of increment and decrement of the stress .
Moreover , the thermoelectric vqlue associated with any load ( not exceeding the elastic limit ) , arrived at in any manner , is constant so long as the load is constant . .
' * .
, One very remarkable feature of the curves is that the first effect of reversal from loading to unloading , or from unloading to loading , is to continue the same hind of thermoelectric change which has been gomg on just before the reversal takes place .
For example , if the wire bad been becoming negative when loading was stopped and unloading began , it continued to change towards negative during the very first part of the subsequent unloading .
This law appears to be general .
As a consequence of the cyclic action it follows that there may exist between a stress and its associated thermoelectric effect any relation which can be expressed by a point within the wide area enclosed between the most distant " on " and " off " curves .
To attempt , therefore , to assign a relation irrespective of the preceding states and changes of stress would be altogether futile .
Instances are given of " molecular reminiscences " of previous stress-actions , exhibiting themselves by modifying the form of the curves m the next succeeding experiments with the same wire .
It is shown that mechanical vibration greatly reduces , if it does not wholly destroy , the distinction between the " on " and " off " curves of thermoelectric quality and stress , if the wire be kept in a state of vibration during the application and removal of the load .
It is also shown that two widely different values of thermoelectric quality , got by reaching the same stress in two different wrays ( namely by addition of load from zero and by partial removal of load from a high value ) , become almost equal to each other when the wire is Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June 16 vibrated , not during , but after , the changes of load through which the given state has been reached .
It is also shown that this approximate equality produced by vibration continues after the vibration ceases .
Also , that when a cycle of loads is gone through , afterwards , without vibration , the old difference between the " on " and " off " curves reasserts itself .
It is suggested that the cyclic phenomenon so conspicuous in this investigation is not peculiar to the thermoelectric effects of stress , but is probably present in other effects of stress , and may perhaps be found to occur in the .
changes of any quality of matter which is a function of another variable quality ( such as temperature ) when the latter quality is subjected to increment and decrement .
Lastly the results of certain independent experiments made by others in other branches of physics are referred to in confirmation of this suggestion .
XII .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
No. VIII .
( Iron , Titanium , Chromium , and Aluminium .
) " By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of .Cambridge .
Received June 2 , 1881 .
In our last communication on this subject we observed ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 29 , p. 405 ) that iron introduced as metal , or as chloride , into the electric arc , in a lime crucible , in the way which had proved successful in the case of many other metals , gave us no reversals .
We succeeded , however , in reversing some ten of the brightest lines of iron , mostly in the blue and violet , by passing an iron wire through one of the carbons , so as to keep up a constant supply of iron in the arc .
Considering the great number of iron lines , and that so many of them are strongly represented amongst the Fraunhofer lines , it seemed somewhat surprising that it should be difficult to obtain a reversing layer of iron vapour in the arc enclosed as we use it in an intensely heated crucible .
A like remark might be made respecting titanium , which is almost as well represented as iron in the Fraunhofer lines , but has heretofore given us no reversals .
Almost the same might be said of chromium , except that the number of chromium lines is so much less than that of either of the other two metals .
We have since found that most , if not all , of the strong lines of these three metals may be reversed by proper management of the atmosphere and supply of metal in the crucible .
Indeed , with regard to iron we have found that the method employed with other metals was successful so far as the ultra-violet rays were concerned , though it

