168 Sir Norman Lockyer .
tion with high powers , these rodlets are seen to multiply by division into equal , or sometimes slightly unequal , halves .
By this method the author hopes also to determine whether the change in shape arises from fusion of two or more individuals or by branching .
Their multiplication by division leads to the conclusion that these organisms are members of the Schizomycetes ; whether or not they are true Bacteria must , however , still he undecided , until the final stage in their life history has been fully followed .
The X , Y , or Y-shaped bacteroid , when once formed appears to be incapable of further growth .
These organisms are aerobic in character , their power of fixing atmospheric nitrogen is to be tested in connection with their growth on silicic acid gelatine .
Commercial " Nitragin " consists of minute micrococcus-like bodies , all straight and immobile .
They multiply rapidly on gelatine media , and in pea extract become converted into " bacteroids " as well as straight rods .
Nitragin does consist of the tubercle organism , and as a result of the inoculation of either seeds or soil with it , tubercle formation takes place .
Crossing of kinds supplied for different genera and species is quite successful within the tribe Viciese .
In order to test the possibility and conditions of direct infection of the roots , seedling peas , starting both before and after germination , were grown in sterile tubes , by which means the whole plant was kept under control .
This method showed that direct infection of quite young radicles is tolerably certain , also of older roots , provided the conditions under which germination occurred are maintained after infection .
In order to secure infection it is not necessary that the organism should pass through the soil , and the age of the root-hair at the time of infection seems to be without effect upon the result .
An accumulation of CO. , round the roots is not the cause of failure in direct infection .
The " addition of nitragin to soils rich in nitrates appears to be inadvisable , but a supply of it to soil poor in nitrates results in an increased yield , though better results are obtained if instead of nitragin , nitrates be added to the soil .
" Preliminary Note on the Spectrum of the Corona .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , E.R.S. Received November 11-Read November 24 , 1898 .
( Plate 4 .
) The announcement by Professor Nasini of the possible presence of the characteristic green line of the corona in the spectrum of the gases collected at the solfatara of Pozzuoli , * renders it desirable that I should at once publish some of the results of an investigation relating to the spectrum of the corona with which I have lately been occupied .
* 'Nature/ yol .
58 , p. 269 , July 21 , 1898 .
On the Spectrum of the Corona , 169 In the course of my early observations of the spectrum of the chromosphere , I discovered on June 6 , 1869 , a bright line at 1474 on Kirehhoff 's scale , which I stated to be coincident with a line of iron * During the total eclipse of the sun on August i , 1869 , a green line was recognised by Professor Young as belonging to the spectrum of the corona , and the position of this line was also stated to be 1474K .
Although other determinations of the position of the green line of the corona during eclipses have not all agreed absolutely with Youngs observations , the differences have been attributed to errors of observation , so that Young 's statement of the coincidence of the coronal and chromospheric lines , and their correspondence with the solar dark line at 1474K has been generally accepted .
No special attention appears to have been directed of late years to the measurement of the corona line itself .
This and other coronal radiations were photographed as rings by the use of prismatic cameras in 1893 , 1896 , and 1898 , but a full list of them has only so far been published for the photographs taken by Mr. Fowler during the eclipse of 1893.1 Among the brightest of these rings , which is common to all three sets of photographs , is one about wave-length 4231 , which probably is identical with the corona line photographed by Schuster in 1886 , and stated to have a wavelength of 4232'8 on Angstrom 's scale ( 4233-4 Rowland ) .
Schuster stated that this line was " probably the same line as 4233*0 often observed by Young in the chromosphere."+ The chromospheric lino at this wave-length has since been identified as an enhanced line of iron , of which the precise wave-length is 4233-3 .
Captain Hills photographed this corona line with a slit spectroscope in the last eclipse , and he gives its wave-length as 4233*5 , S which within the limits of error might be considered coincident with the enhanced line of iron .
The later researches on the spectrum of iron have shown that the iron line which I observed in 1869 to be coincident with the bright chromospheric line at 1474K ( 5316*79 Rowland ) is also an enhanced line , agreeing absolutely with Young 's latest determination of the wave-length of the 1474 chromospheric line , j| with which , according to his eclipse observations , the green line of the corona is coincident .
According to these results then , two of the chief lines in the spectrum of the corona would be coincident with enhanced lines of iron .
The remaining corona lines , which have so far been measured , are not , however , coincident with enhanced lines .
It did not seem * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 18 , p. 76 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 187 , p. 593 .
X 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 180 , p. 341 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 54 .
II Scheiner 's ' Astronomical Spectroscopy ' ( Frost 's translation ) , p. 425 .
170 On the Spectrum of the .
possible , therefore , that two of the enhanced lines of iron should be present without the others , even if it be admitted that the corona may have a temperature high enough to produce any enhanced lines .
It appeared then , either that the coincidences of the chromospheric and coronal lines about 423 and 531 were accidental , or that they were hot real coincidences at all .
A careful examination of the eclipse photographs of 1896 , taken by Mr. Shackleton , and those of 1898 , taken by Mr. Fowler , has therefore been undertaken , with special reference to this point .
\#166 ; The wave-length of the coronal ring at 4231 , already published in the case of the 1893 photographs , has been confirmed .
The 1896 and 1898 photographs further indicate that the corona , line near 4231 is not coincident with the chromospheric line to which reference has been made , and show that while the chromospheric line is Coincident with the enhanced line of iron at A. 4233*3 , the corona line lias a wave-length of 423T3 .
With regard to the ring in the green , the lack of sufficient photographs on isochromatic plates in 1893 does not permit of a final determination of wave-length .
Important data , however , were obtained , both in 1896 and 1898 .
A measurement of the position of the chief ring in the green , as shown in these photographs , comparing the ring with the spectrum of the chromosphere and a solar and iron spectrum taken by the same prisms , shows beyond all question that the wave-length is very different from that generally accepted .
The mean result of measurements of different parts of the ring made by Messrs. Fowler and Shackleton and Dr. Lockyer is 5303*7 , or about 13 tenth-metres more refrangible than 1474K ( 5316*79 ) .
Although the new wave-length is not to be regarded as final , for the reason that the conditions under which the photographs were taken necessitate certain small corrections which have not yet been fully worked out , it is not likely that it can be in error by so much as 1 tenth-metre .
The examination of the photographs , which has been undertaken in the first instance by Mr. Fowler , indicates that other important conclusions are to be drawn from the admirable series obtained by him* among them the possible existence of one or more new gases , some of the lines of which , as gathered from the dispersions as yet available , appear also in the spectra of some stars and planetary nebulae .
The photograph which accompanies this paper has been prepared by Mr. Fowler .
DESCRIPTION O PLATE 4 .
1 .
Spectrum of Corona and upper Chromosphere .
\gt ; 2 .
Spectrum of lower Chromosphere , showing that the chromospheric line at 1474K is not coincident with the corona line .
3 .
Solar Spectrum .
Lockyer .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , Yol .
64 , Plate 4 .
04 00

