]\gt ; .
E. Wilson .
The Kelvin Quadrant time than mammals or frogs , and the difference is so striking one attribute it to the abssnce of in Teleosts , and assume that the corticgland is not absolutely to the the animal .
The longest time that a frog survive removal of capsules is , according to Abelous and Langlois , *twelve or days , and this periodis shortened in the summer to forty-eight Mammals usually die in a day or two .
The validity of these experiments depends obviously upon the fact that all suprarenal material has been actually removed at the operation .
This has been verified in two ways .
In the first place , previous study of the anatomy of the organs in many individuals has shown that the suprarenals are never more than two in number , Secondly , all three animals have been carefully dissected post mortem , and no trace of suprarenal bodies has been found to be left behind . .
has described a true physiological compensatory hyper .
trophy of one suprarenal in the eel after the other one has been removed .
This ndicates a seereting function for this cortical gland .
Pettit looks upon this organ in the eel as the fundamental type of the suprarenal capsule ; but this view is quite umtenable in the face of the facts that it has none of the characters of the double of mammaIs , and its removal does not cause death .
" " The Kelvin Quadrant Electrometer as a Wattmeter yoltmeter By ERNEST VILSON .
Communicated Dr. J. HOPKINSON , F.R.S. Received January 11 , \mdash ; January 27 , 1898 .
During the past seven years the author has had continued ence with the Kelvin quadrant electrometer , both in connection scientific l.esearch and the training of electrical engineering in the Siemens Laboratory , King 's ] leg , London , This embodies a good deal of the experience which he has gained with rument , and he has been fortunate in that two of these ments were available .
The numbers of the instruments are 71 184 .
The writer was therefore able to test the one as a using the other for the purpose of atincr the rate at which work was being done by aIternate instrument used as a Wattmeter ( No. 184 ) is of comparati For the animal which lived 119 days this statement has been verified fessor schafer .
sir les Capsuies Surrenales , ' These .
Paris ( Felix Alcan ) , ometer as a Wattmeter and con struction , and differs from the other principally in the of the guard tube in the immediate vicinity of the needle portion of the needle axis , and the wire connecting needlc to the acid inside the .
The induction plate employed the old is done away with , and the terminals are fixed to the quadrants in this new instrument , otherwise , so as the author can see , thoy are identical .
These instruments to Dr. J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. , the old form tlJe same hat he used many years , connexion with which be read Physical Socicty on I ration of Clerk fiper .
alludsd to , it is shown that the sensibility of the instrument ( No. 71 ) increased with the charge on the needle up to a poiub , and for further increase of the charge on needle the scnsibility diminished .
The complete explanation of this ; not given , and the :luthor believes Professors Ayl.ton and Perry were the first to point out this effect is due to the portion of the guard ) in the immediate of the needle .
To this point the new iustrument a Kelvin vertical electrostatic voltmeter was across the needle and case , a constant tipplied to the , one being put bo the jnr was then charged by from an electrophorus , adings lake]l ou the voItmeter and electrometer cale .
charge was continually increased until disruption occurrtween t and the lantern which supports the to about 2,450 volts on the needle the sensiincrcased , and so far as the author .
old see ttIe needle was there deted as the charge was increased up to the point of disruption , ) of being off the scalc .
No reat care was taken tlJi s experiment , since it was only carried out for the purposc } ascel.taining if diminished sensibility could be obtained with charge .
The results are given in fig. 1 .
In Clerk 's ectricity and netism , ' vol. 1 , p. 273 , edition 1873 , it shown that deflection of the needle of a quadrant should , where is potential thu needlc , and A and the potentials of the two pairs of .
In fig. 1 the E.M.F. between the quadrants was less than 1 volt , was constant .
By the formula the quctient should in case be constant where is the observed deflection .
It varic.s iu unils from to as the value of varies about to 2,450 voIts .
This is working the instrument * Sce ' April , 1885 .
beyond the range which it is intended , since when the gauge is in proper adjustment the value of is only about 550 volts .
In the following experiment ths highest E.M.F. employed is 115 volts , and since a square root of mean square value equal to 100 volts was the maximum potential difference about to be used by the author in a series of experiments upon alternate current Watt-hour meters , it was necessary to see that within this range of potential the formula above given is verified : The instrument was connected as before with one pair of quadrants to the case , the other pair being insulated and the electromotive forces applied to the quadrants , as also to needle , were supplied by storage ceIls , and accurately measured by Poggendorff 's method , the standard of compal'ison being Clark 's cell .
The results are given in Table I. The instrument in the above experiment mounted on a slate base in the upstairs room of tlJe Siemens Laboratory .
The spot of light when working on this base with this instrument is never perfectly steady , and this may account for the errors observed in Table I. ltlethod of Tesf .
Fig. 2 gives a diagram of connections bow the electrometer lvas used as a Watbmeter for alternate currents , and how it was tested when being so used .
In the formula , .
E. Wilson .
The Kelvin Quadrant In the Siemens Laboratory there are two alternate rent m ' coupled together in such manner that any desired phase differene{ between their armatures can be obtained .
In fig. 2 , and represent the armatures of these machines .
On the shaft of one these alternators is fixed a revolving contact maker , lA , which maket contact between two brushes once in a period , that is six times in revolution of the alternator , since there are twelve poles .
It of a gunmetal disk keyed to the shaft of the alternator , and carrying two rings , one of ebonits and the other of gunmetal insulated from the disk by means of the ebonite ring .
Into the ebonite ring are in .
serted six contact-making strips of gunmetal one-sixteenth of an inch thick , equally spaced out on the circumferencs and soldered into gunmetal ring .
An insulated copper brush bears on the gunmetal ring , and an insulated steel brush bears on the surface of the ebonite ring , touching each of the contact-making strips as the contwt maker revolves .
The epoch at which such contact is made by the small steel brush can be varied and observed by means of a pointer moving over a fixed circle divided into 360 equal .
The diameter of this revolving contact maker is 13 inches .
is the No. 184 electrometer used as a Wattmeter .
is the No. lectrometer used in connsction with the revolving contact maker the purpose of determining the instantaneous values of the current and potential differsnce .
is a Kelvin balance or Siemens electro-dynamometer for ths measurement of current ; is the thick wire circuit or circuits of the Watt-hour meters being tested ; is a Kelvin multicellular voltmeter ; are non-inductive resistances of comparatively large value for the purpose of reducing the potential difference applied to the electrometer , when measuring potential difference ; the pressure circuits , , of the Watt-hour meters are placed aoross are made np of a manganin strip mm. wide and mm. thick ; ohm at about C. ; are non-inductive resistances of considerable magnitude for reducing the potential difference applied to when necessary .
The junction between and is connected to the case of ; the quadrants of this lment are connected respectively to the extreme ends of whilst the needle of the electrometer is connected to the other pole of .
In connec lon In with is a two-way switch for 2 , observing potentials across or ; is the ordinary switch plied with the electrometer which short-circuits the quadrallffi when moved to its central position , and in two other positions revers es the charge on the quadrants ; is a condenser , which can be val.ied full description of these machines is given in the 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 187 ( 1896 ) , p. 281 .
Electrometer as a Watt and oltineter .
from to 1 microfarad , its capacity being 1 microfarad during bhe experiments , ths results of which are given in Table II .
Before giving the results of the experiments it is well to explain the method dopted of treating the curves for the purpose of arriving at the Watts due to the alternate current , the relation between which the of the electrometer used as a Wattmeter it is desired to find .
It is also necessary to examine the limits of accuracy enable by this method .
Tn any one experiment the frequency employed is kept constant as nearly as possible : the phase difference between current and potential is adjusted to any desired and bhe amplitude of these quantities is kept constant by ob ; their root of mean square values on the instruments F. The ; contact maker is en seb to different positions of the phase , the number employed being at least ten equal divisions to the half period , and for each position , leadings taken on the electrometer when the switch is in each of its two positions .
lf the deflections so obtained be plotted in terms of the position of the revolving contact maker , the forms of the curves are those due to the instantaneous values of the potential difference applied to the needle of the electrometer , and the current which gives the of potential difference applied to the quadrants of By multiplyiug of deflections together , and by a suitable constant of the sensibility of and the resistances ; , or , the neous rate at which work is being don ho ltcrnate cnrrent can be inferred in Watts .
The aver of .
a half period gives the average rate , and this can obtained plotting tho instantaneous product and taking the with a , or the average of the algebraic sum a period can be taken .
The author found the latter method agrced so well with the former when the number of intervals at which vations are taken is ten , that he has adopted it in this ) , that is to say , the two electrometer deflections for a given position of are multiplied together , ths average of these over half a pel.iod , and such multiplied by a constant to redu to The best way , ) , to tcst the limits of accuracy is to adjust current itnd llntil they are exactly iu phase .
The voltnleter and mperemeter give bhe square root of mean square alues , product of these should agree with the average resnlts ) itined f curves .
The time required to take one set of valiuns is generally about twenty minutes , during this time for voIts , amperes , and frequency is taken .
The anthor finds from experience that if care be takeu an agreement bel ween tt results got from the curves , from the product of voIts and ampercs , can be obtained to within one two per .
It .
E. Wilson .
The Kelvin Quadrant musb be remembered that for each position of the contact four oservations on the electrometer scale have to bs that is , two for potential and two for current corresponding to two positions of for each position of tfle difference iu case giving the net double deflection .
This method is bsst , eliminates any zero error there may be .
In working the , a wooden tapper mallet is employed , since in every meter there must be viscosity due to the fluid , and by gentIy tapping the slate base for each deflection very consistent results can be tained .
This viscosity is in winter , and it is advisabls keep the instrument in a warm room , although with this method lapping the author does not find this necessary .
The trouble in the of the elecbrometer undoubtedly arises from dust settling on the surface of the acid in the jar , thereby making the angular movement of the wire hangino from the needle ] than it would be if such brake action did not .
This takes place when the acid in the jar is old , and if the surface be agitated by blowing through a glass tube near where the wire dips inbo the acid it can be to a great extent remedied .
Whatever the state of the acid the author finds he gets the mosb consistent results by gentle tapping .
The electrometer is not so sensitive as old form and the effect due to the acid in it has not given so much trouble .
The sensibility of when the idiostatic gauge is adjusted is such that one CIark cell gives a deflection zero of inches scale 12 feet from the mirror .
The potential of needle is in case about 350 volts .
Experimenfal Bcsults .
In .
a test of the eltomet er as an alternate cnrrent attmeter we have the following variables fo deal :\mdash ; 1 .
The frequency of the altcrnate current .
2 .
phase dilference betwcen current and potential , that is betwcen nd A or B. 3 .
The amplitude of and A or B. 4 .
The shape or wave form of the curve of potential and currenf .
The resuIts obtained are tabulated in ble II and are divided three groups ( a ) ( b ) .
In group ( a ) two fi7eq11encies are givcn , namely and 83 complete periods .
second .
The potential on the needle is constant at about 100 voIts .
The difference potential and current and the current itself each varied .
When the phase difference is , it is onIy to take the product of he lues to deduce altbough in section ( b ) three instances given in which phase d zero , the uced ) Etectrometer as a Wattmete'and erage Watts per division given by section ( a ) are for all gles of phase leaving out the two valnes deduced by aid of bhe for angles of and .
It will be seen that under contions of section ( a ) Wattmeter be said to be verified within limits of accurncy inabl e by the method of test .
The wave rm of the unlonded alternator is given in and marked ; is is the wave form of potential applied to the necdle in all ents in sections and ( b ) .
A sine curve havin .
maxinm ordinttte is superposed for the purpose of } .
The has diffel.ent wave form according to the load on the ternatol ' .
small cull'ents it approximates to in fig. 3 .
The lrve , fig. .3 , the form for current 74 amperes , is the ximum we employed .
distortion of the potential curve was brought about placing a considerable non-inductive resistance in series with choking coil , and taking potentials across the choking coil .
ltllent under these conditions gives trustworthy results .
place difference on o1ie or two occasions was such that ) indicated no work , the deflection under these conditions was The ximum angle of deflection of the needle from position was , and were made from time to with ) large } ) otontials on the needle , to see if the instrument in proper adjustment , by placing both pairs of quadrants nection with the case , and noting the agreement between ibs zero and the zero when and needle were put to the is when the nent was totally discharged .
To effect of dismounting the instrument the needle was taken suspension and the instrument moved to another room and another purposo , December 10 , 1897 .
On continuing he menLs it was up by the level on , and found to be ustment .
results of expel1iment before and emoval a given in Table II .
as a Wattmeter oltmeter .
Seeing from fig. 3 how grent was the deviation from the sine law , would have been to analyse each ctlrve ) yFollrier 's if the subject was to have been treated mathematically , phase difference being given .
The current curve form with different , and this would have necesobserving in each case , so that nothing was to be by method of treatment .
The potenbial curve , fig. 3 , and can be expressed by the equaThe -efficients are as follows:\mdash ; see that is important , being bout 6 per .
of ; so that th !
cosinc ] could not ) expected to hold .
In , , the is } ) plied in two instances for pose of strd tion .
It ves ) as against for the per of scnle , for ; and as insb 1 for small } docs 1lot appear to be so reat .
ions a from these experiments that be used with as a in tho ) of any an .
Hopkinson , it is necossaly that of polentials applied , 's formul1 , , best by inoo , teady potentia ] I ints , and mensuring these by Clark 's stan cell as the unit of I itlso be by applying alternating the curves being in pJlase .
lf is to nse potentials of high value , such , a ansfortlcr could be on the needy .
Such unloaded could rimary and lary otromoti in of hc wave no error wonld inlrod ed. ' trician , tugust 3 , 1894 , 617 .
' Philosophical Magazine , ' , 1885 .
Flectrician , iebruary 1 Quadrant as Wattmeter and r1Contact Maker .
The olving contact maker , fig. 2 , exhibits a worth noting .
It is in itself the seat of an electromotive force , demonstrated by placing it across the electrometer , and the machines without excitation .
A deflection of 68 scale corresponding to volb , is given if the elt.meter has capacity .
across its terminals , that is , if is zero .
A gives the same effect as a steel one .
As soon a is given a sbantial value as compared with the electrometer itself , this tion ears .
When actually observing potentiaIs in the way , let the value be a given position of the contact maker the tion varied , as shown in , in the ordinates are deflections , and ssae the cciprocals of the capaoity of microfal'ads .
We see that when has 1 microfarad capacity , the tion is practically what it would be if , and farad the results verify with the value .
ctive effect certainly rendered negligible by sufficient capacity , and it is fore wise to examine effect when with a maker , each one may have its own peculiarities .
in Strip .
The strip , fig. 2 , is lengbhs of 5 feet , material has altered resistance , as shown rfable [ .
mounted on Novembcr 1 , ) , { llld submitted ) varying from 100 ampores downwards .
On , it adjuHled for .
The that there is an diminutiou of , and that theJJ the resi semni n tant .
is this mnterial ; th time , ccotlnt of its ) : is varni s to the th .
room .
The :arc th fore not ronst ubility t the tzing .
I. ttlH { H. H. Hodd ( ivcn ) ) i11 of this ) , but out of the bIlIts .
) , { tudcnt ]ratol .
in the me .
1 to thi ; to cntlcmcn .
( .
of hnost 1 Iron By Inunic Dr. J. th iron supplied by ] the , Io ir Abel , , 1 whom he1lt to .
John Hopkinson , and is to l'ure this pnrc iron not beexl dircctly for di of duc to netic hystcresis , it would be interest i tc ) .
Soc. l'ro ol .
)

