2 .
Notice of a Comet seen from HM .
Brig Penguin off the Coast of South Africa .
Sept. 29 , 1853 .
' Sir , -I am not aware that it can be of any service , still I have thought proper to write you , for the information of the Royal Society , that on the lst of May 1853 , on board H.M. brig Penguin , in lati .
35 ?
0 S. , long .
21ยง 52t E. , 2 at G6h 30m P.M. I observed a comet bearing N.W. by W. I W. , measuring from the centre star in the belt of Orion 14ยง 30 ' , the altitude of the comet being 26ยง 191 , its length being about 5 ? .
It went down at 9h 10m , bearing W. ?
N. , and from the altitude , time , and rate it appeared to move at , it must have been the first evening of being seen .
On first observing it , it appeared to be making a retrograde motion , or tail first , and not travelling as fast as the two small stars above it , as by the time it set it had approached very close to them : the weather fine , warm , and cloudy .
On the 3rd of May a gale came on which lasted till the 7th , after that time it became rather indistinct , not being seen but when very clear , or by the aid of a glass .
Having sailed on the 29th April from Simon 's Bay , Cape of Good Hope , and not hearing there , or seeing anything of a comet , in either the Nautical or Cape Almanacs , I concluded it had not as yet been observed , and therefore have thought it my duty to forward a rougi sketch of its appearance on the days mentioned , and its positions , as near as 1 could place it with my left hand , my right unfortunately having been partially smashed and disabled on the night the gale commenced , and which also prevented me from measuring its distance from any of the stars , &amp;c. A copy of the latitude , longitude , and bearings is from the ship 's log .
I found on our arrival at Quilemane that it had been observed by the other two cruisers , but not till the 6th of May .
I must apologize for troubling y ou with the above , but considering it as a point of duty that I shoulddo so , I have the honour to be Sir , your very obedient Servant , " The Secretary , 'W B. BEDWARDS , Royal Society .
" " Master H.M. Brig Penguin .
"

