]\gt ; -VELOCITY CURVE however , represents the area of a curve whose ordinates are .
This curve is plotted below the velocity axis in fig. 1 and is marked 2 .
Points on it are quickly found by the aid of the slide-rule .
The magnitude of corresponding toa particular velocity is scaled off Curve 1 and the quotient is calculated , and arbitrarily any convenient soale , this quotient is plotted vertieaUy downwards against the velocity .
The black area markedA represents thevalua of the between the ] and .
Seleoting The distance represented by the area depends upon the time scale and the velocity scale which have already been chosen .
Thus 1 inch represents feet second ; 1 inoh represents 2 second\amp ; Therefore 1 square inch tk area represents feet .
Distance is set out to the arbitrarily \amp ; n soale lin\amp ; feet .
ider now the change of direotion in the trajectory caused by the action of gravity .
..bt Os fig. be the velocity of the projeotile at a point in the Before this can be integrated must be known as a function of the time .
But as a function of the time is given by curve No. 3 .
Therefore take a series of values of the time and plot the auxiliary curve .
No. 5 by measuring off the velocity corresponding to a given time , and then by means of a slide-rule calculating the value .
Then integrate curve No. 5 with respect to the time .
Thus the area represents the direction in the time OT .
This area plotted to any convenient scale gives the point and other points found in the same way determine the curve No. 6 .
The change of direction represented by the area depends upon the time scale and the scale on which the values of are plotted .
In the figure the original scales were : 1 inch horizontally units , 1 inch downwards represents 2 .
Therefore 1 square inch of the area represents on the original drawing a change of direction of radian or degrees .
And the scale on which change of direction is plotted is approximately 1 inch degrees or radian .
The change of direction is integrated in relation to the diagram time .
The change of direction given by the ordinates to Curve 6 measured horizontally from the time axis is , therefore , the diagram change .
The actual change of direction is found by multiplying this diagram change by the ballistic coefficient of the projectile .
Curve No. 7 shows the linear kinetic nergy in foot-tons stored in the projectile per pound weight of the projectile .
The striking energy corre- sponding to any terminal velocity can be obtained from this curve .
The actual striking energy in foot-tons is the energy found from the curve multiplied by the weight of the projectile in pounds .
The group of curves shown fig. 4 constitute the ballistic diagram .
Let be any given muzzle velocity , and let be the final velocity .
Through V and draw vertical lines to cut the time-velocity ourve No. 3 , and these points draw horizontal lines to cut the time-distance curve in X and ; finally draw vertical lines through X and to cut the distance axis in and .
Then is the distance travelled by the

