II .
" On the Gyroscope .
" By AlTHURu HILL CURTIS , Esq. Communicated by Professor BOOLE .
Received Sept. 20 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to deduce on strict mechanical principles all the known properties of the gyroscope .
The only assumption made is that the velocity of rotation impressed on the instrument is very great compared with that which the attached weight would produce on it if acting alone for an instant in a direction perpendicular to the axis .
The theorems which the author establishes are the following : THEOREM I.-The curves described by the extremity of the axis of the gyroscope are a system of spherical cycloids generated by the motion of a point on the spherical radius of a circle , which , constantly remaining on the same sphere , rolls without sliding on the circumference of another fixed circle situated on the same sphere .
These cycloids may be either ordinary , curtate , or prolate-including the case when the system degenerates into a circle , in which case the generating point becomes the centre of the rolling circle .
Their species depends on the direction of the initial velocity communicated to the axis , the direction in which the instrument is set rotating , and the position of the attached weight ; when , for instance , no initial velocity is communicated to the axis , the cycloids will be ordinary at first , and would continue so if the gyroscope were a perfect instrument for illustrating the motion of a body round a fixed point ; but the inertia of the rings on which it is mounted , and of the attached weight , as well as the resistance of the air , after a short period has elapsed , has the effect of imparting to the axis a certain velocity which modifies the curves described by it , and at last causes the motion of the axis to become for a time sensibly one of uniform progression ; it then becomes oscillatory again , the amplitudes of the oscillations being smaller than before .
THEOREM II.-If the outer ring be fixed in any position so as to restrict the axis of the gyroscope to a fixed plane , the motion of the axis , when a weight is attached as above , is the same whether the instrument be set rotating or not .
It is proved that the angular motion of the axis is determined by an equation of the same form as that of a circular pendulum , which does not involve the angular velocity of rotation impressed on the gyroscope .
THEOREM III.-If the gyroscope be set rotating rapidly , and its axis of figure be constrained , as in Theorem II .
, to move very freely in a plane fixed with regard to the horizon , the axis will tend to take the position of the projection on the given plane of the line drawn through the centre of gravity of the gyroscope , parallel to the axis of the earth , in such a way that the earth and the gyroscope may turn in the same direction ; while , if the axis be perfectly free , it will move exactly in the same way as the axis of a telescope directed constantly towards the same fixed star , their initial positions being supposed parallel , as established experimentally by M. Leon Foucault ( Comptes Rendus , September , 1852 ) .
To prove this theorem , the angular velocity of the earth round its axis is resolved into an equal and codirectional motion of rotation round the line through the centre of gravity of the gyroscope parallel to the earth 's axis , and a motion of translation , the direction of which is constantly changing , common to all parts of the earth .
Of these motions the latter is communicated to the gyroscope by the friction of its base , and does not modify its position with regard to the horizon .
The first alone requires to be considered .
In order to estimate its effect , a rotation equal to it and round the same axis , but in an opposite direction , must be supposed to be communicated both to the earth and the gyroscope .
This does not affect their relative motion , and simplifies the problem , as it enables us to consider the earth at rest .
The relative motion of the gyroscope may therefore be found by adding to the three components , round its principal axis , of its instantaneous angular velocity of rotation , as found from its equations of absolute motion , the components of this introduced velocity of rotation , the moment of resistance of the given plane being taken into account in forming the equations of motion , and its intensity supposed such as to counteract that part of the total angular velocity of the axis which is perpendicular to the given plane .
The equation which determines the motion of the axis is shown to be identical with that of a circular pendulum , and the motion consequently one of oscillation , the mean position of the axis being that in which it approaches , as close as the conditions of the question permit , to the line drawn through its centre of gravity parallel to the earth 's axis , and in which it rotates in a direction similar to that of the earth 's rotation .
Similar reasoning establishes the second part of the theorem , which is theoretically true whether the gyroscope be set rotating or not .
This result is , however , in practice modified by the effects of friction ; but when a rapid rotatory motion has been impressed on the gyroscope , it acquires a stability which enables it to overcome to a great extent these effects .

