]\gt ; ( in Cm.rent ofessor H. G. Seeley 's ection to the importation of the Amphi .
bian plan in expIanation of a part of the Plesiosaurian shoulder girdle , of which other parts have been explained by reference to the Chelonian plam of construction , has not , I venture to think , reaf weight , since , of the early Reptilia , from the time when their first began to be studied , has been a frequent remark that their skeletons comprise structural ements which in existing animals , found separately .
Moreover , it is tlJought by some of the ablest comparative anatomists that the Cheloniat ?
skeleton shows closer approach to the Amphibiqn than is to be found eIsewhel'e .
' On Current Curves By Iajol R. L. HIPPISLEY , R.E. Communicated by Major , F.R.S. Received May 12 , \mdash ; Read June 2 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The object of the present paper is to show how to determine expressions for the current in circuits iron cores , similar to the well.known equations and for cuits without iron , which will enable the current curves to be pre.determined by calculation and plotted independently of experiment .
In circuits with iron valoe of in the originaI differential equations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) , . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) continualIy alters as changes .
If we could obtain an expression terms of snbstitution of this expression and ( 2 ) old lead us to the required result .
But , though such an expression can be found , its substitution will lead to differential equations which cannot be solved by known methods .
2 .
In the case repl'esented by ( 1 ) , where the applied Ei .
M.F. is constant , we can determine by 's formula of interpolation VOL. LII .
B. L. Hippisley .
the equation to the curve of the particular core consideratio ] ] .
This will be of the form .
( 3 ) , where is one less than the number of observed simuItaneous values of and from which the equation is calculated ; whence . . . . .
( 4 ) , substituting in the equation Fi\mdash ; ( 5 ) , we .
( 6 ) .
which is easily able ; and integrating between the proper limits we get reduction -\amp ; c. , to .
( 7 ) .
The corresponding equation when the E.M. .
is removed and the current is dying away is . .
( 8 ) , the , \amp ; c. , being the coefficients of the powers of in the equation to the descending curve , which is , of course , different to the ascending 2 .
method is not applicable to the case in which the impres.scd E.M.F. is sinusoidal , on account of difficulties of ration .
But cases be treated in anobhel of points on the curve of the iron core , such that chords oinin o. them practically coincide with the curve itself .
Let ] be the coordinates of consecutive points .
The equation to t , he curve between theso points is approximately where and ffibween these limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 10 ) .
During time that the current from to , and and rise and to and , and riscs from to we . . . . .
and therefore . . . . . . .
( 12 ) , which is true to a very close approximation for any simultaneous values of and between the above limits .
From equation , since and are both zero , we can determine in succession times at which the current has the known values , . . . .
\amp ; c. , using that value of which applies to that particular value of under consideration .
In this way the current curve can be plotted .
On making in the original differential equation .
, and observing the proper limits , we get . . . .
- . . . . . . .
the equation to tho curve } ) .
the dying Wfty of the when the E.M.F. is withdrawn ; determined from the curve .
Fig. 1 and Table I give the results of calculation for a circuit with the constants :Resistance , ohm ; E.II .
F. .
; self-induction ( without iron core ) , henry .
On Current to , we must employ the general solution of ( 14 ) , }which for interval is . .
( 1.5 ) , in order that the current at the commencement of the interval may have the same value which it had at the end of the interval .
The complementary function enables us to ensure this condition ; for , by taking the co1lstant of such a value that equation ( 15 ) is satisfied when and , there is no abrupt change in the current .
The complementary function , in fact , represents the gradual dying away of whatever excess or defect of current there would be in the circuit when changes .
Equation ( 15 ) is true for all values of between and ; and , therefore , enables us to find the time at which the current attains the known value By changing into we obtain similarly the time at which the current has the value , and so on .
Thus the determination of is made to depend upon , and inorder to make a start we must assume that the value of is known for some definite value of .
When the number of alternations per second is not great , it is not of much consequence what } tion , within reason , is made , as , though the calculated curves will vary with the assumption made , they will all eventually merge into the true periodic current curve at some point which will be exhibited when the first evanescence of place .
As this complementary function is a continually decreasing quantity , it becomes negligible when it is allowed time enough .
This opportunity is afforded when the straighter porbions of the culve are reached , and where the points on the cnrve can be taken further apart .
When , however , the period of alternation is short in comparison with the time-constant of the circuit , the evanescence of does not so readily take place ; and it will generally take several cycles before the current shakes down into its truly periodic form .
The preliminary assumption ought therefore in such cases to be made with care if it is desired to avoid the labour of calculating the first cycles .
But , if the periodicity is quick enough , can be taken as a constant , at any rate during he shorter intervals .
Fig. 2 gives the plotted curve calculated for a circuit of 500 turns surrounding an anchor ring , having a coefficient of selfinduction ( without the core ) of and a of On Cur.rent Curves .
ohm .
The impressed E.M.F. is volts .
The .
periodicity is being 6 cycles per second , and the true periodic curve seen appear before the end of the first half period .
Curve A is calcuthe preliminary suppt when , an Curve on the assumption that when , neithel .
of which is strictly correct .
Fig. 3 gives the curve , and Table III the observations upon which as , it is based of the iron core under consideration .
5 .
The method of this paper cau be applied to the pre-determination of the of the primary and currents in transformers and of the curve of netic induction with regard to time .
[ For , when there is supposed to be no magnetic leakage in the core , the expressions for the primary and secondary currenbs are\mdash ; . . . .
( 16 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 17 ) , whel.e ' being resistance of primary .
that of secondary , the mber of primary turns , the number of secondary turns , the of the mary .
From ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) , the total magnetic force on the core ( being reduces to .
( 18 ) , where L. Now equation ( 18 ) tl.eated in the same way as ( gives ) simultaneous values of and that is , of and .
These latter substituted in ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) the simultaneous values of and and and Major R. L. Hippisley .
Jf there is magnetic leakage it is necessary to discriminate between the of the pl.imary core and the of the secondary core ; these respectively\mdash ; ( 19 ) , MS sin and , derived respectively from and , where ( 21 ) , and EpmM - .
( 22 ) .
In these equations is the self-induction of the secondary , is the mutual induction , is the radicle in the denominator of ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) , hile ' RS eptember , 1892 .

