268 Mr. Slielford Bidwell .
On Negative " On the Negative After-images following Brief Retinal Excitation .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received April 15 , \#151 ; Read May 13 , 1897 .
The experiments to be described were undertaken with the object of ascertaining the true nature of certain phenomena referred to in a recent communication , which had been left over for further examination .
For full details reference should be made to the former paper , * bat it will be convenient to recapitulate very shortly one or two of the results which were arrived at .
It was found that if the image of a bright object upon a dark background were suddenly formed upon the retina , the object generally appeared to be surrounded for about one-tenth of a second by a narrow red border .
As a consequence of this circumstance , a black line drawn upon white paper appeared for a moment after it was first exposed to view to be entirely red .
Methods were described by which these coloured borders could be seen continuously for any length of time , so that , for example , a design in black lines appeared as if drawn with red ink .
The red border was explained by supposing a momentary sympathetic affection of the red nerve-fibres just outside the boundary of the luminous patch projected upon the retina .
But , in some experiments , it was noticed that , when the intensity of the illumination was increased beyond a certain limit , the colour of the transient border was modified .
Under very strong illumination the colour of the border was greenish-blue ; sometimes ( as in Experiment II , p. 371 ) it was of two colours\#151 ; greenish-blue within and red without .
It was with regard to the cause of these greenisli-blue and particoloured borders that I then considered it preferable to " refrain from any speculation .
" It has now been ascertained , almost beyond doubt , that the greenish-blue colour is due simply to the negative after-image of the red this after-image being in certain cases so much more conspicuous than the red band which originates it , that the latter altogether escapes notice .
The experiments upon which this conclusion is based gave results of a remarkable and unexpected character ; there is no record , so far as I am aware , that anything of the kind has been previously noticed .
It should be stated that the negative after-images here referred to are of the kind which appear upon a white ground after the gaze has been directed for a time upon a coloured object .
The tints of such after-images are generally said to be always complementary to colours of the objects which excite them ; they are , however , rather weak or impure , being largely diluted with white light .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1890 , vol. 60 , p. 368 .
After-images following brief Retinal .
2G9 Apparatus .
The only apparatus employed was a rotating disk of which one-half of the surface was black and the rest white , a sector of 45 ' being cut out at the junction of the black and white portions .
The disk , which was 8 inches ( 20 cm .
) in diameter , was made of tinplate ; a piece of thick brass wire was fixed along the arc bounding the open sector to restore the balance .
Half the disk was covered with black velvet , for no pigment among several that were tried appeared sufficiently black in a strong light ; the remaining portion of the surface was coated with white paper .
The disk was turned in such a direction that the open sector was preceded by black and followed by white .
It was usually illuminated by an electric lamp of 25-candle power with a ground glass bulb , the intensity of the illumination being regulated by varying the distance of the lamp ; sometimes sunlight or diffused daylight was employed .
The objects under examination were placed on the other side of the disk and viewed intermittently through the open sector .
Experiment I. A card with black letters printed upon it was placed behind the disk , which was illuminated in front by the lamp at a distance of 2 feet ( 60 cm .
) .
When the disk made about six turns per second , the black letters appeared to be bright red ; this was of course so far merely a repetition of the old observation .
The lamp was then gradually brought nearer to the disk , and as it approached the aspect of the letters underwent a change .
At first they exhibited a peculiar shimmer , independently described by a great number of persons as either a " silvery , " " lustrous , " or " metallic " appearance ; it was plainly due to flashes across the letters of some tint much lighter than the red , by which they were still mainly characterised .
When the distance of the lamp was diminished to about 4 inches ( 10 cm .
) , all trace of the red had disappeared , and the letters assumed a luminous greenish-blue tint .
Experiment II .
A card was substituted upon which were printed words and figures in both black and red .
It was found possible , by suitably adjusting the intensity of the light and the speed of rotation , to make such a perfect match between the letters which were actually red and those which only appeared so , that an unpractised observer could not distinguish between them .
When the lamp was placed near the disk , all the letters , both black and red , appeared greenish-blue .
The greenish-blue tint of the actually red letters was , moreover , more 270 Mr. Shelford Bidwell .
On Negative intense or saturated than that acquired by the black ones .
Bright diffused daylight produced nearly the same effect as the electric lamp at 4 inches .
These two experiments together tend to show that , whatever may be the cause of the subjective red border , the nerves of the retina when under its influence behave very much in the same way as if excited by an external red object .
'Experiment III .
It was remarked in the former paper ( p. 3/ 6 ) that the greenish-blue tint appeared to be of the hue that is complementary to led .
Consideration of this fact , in conjunction with the others that have been mentioned , suggested the question whether this tint might not be referable to a negative after-image of the red border .
At first sight such a , supposition appeared to be an exceedingly improbable one .
It is known that under ordinary circumstances a conspicuous after-image can be seen only after prolonged staring at the coloured object , and it seemed incredible that after an excitation lasting for not more than about one-fiftieth of a second there should be developed an after-image of such intensity as to completely overwhelm the primary impression , so that the latter was altogether unnoticed .
When , however , the question was tested by experiment , the results were found to be consistent with the conjecture .
Several cards , measuring about 5 inches by 3 , were covered with paper and silk of different colours , and observed through the opening in the rotating disk while the 25-candle power lamp was at a distance .of about 6 inches .
In every case the original hue entirely vanished , and was replaced by a pale tint of the complementary colour .
In order to assist in the recognition of these tints , it was found useful to cover the cards with two different colours , which weie approximately complementary to each other .
Thus , for example , one-half of a card was covered with red silk , and the other half with green .
Under the rotating disk the red portion becomes pale greenish-blue , and the green portion rose-pink , these two hues being recognized by an inexperienced person without the slightest hesitation .
The immediate reversal of the colours which takes place when the disk is suddenly stopped is very striking .
It should be remarked that there is no blurring of the image upon the retina when objects are viewed through the rotating disk ; even the texture of the coloured silk fabrics is seen quite distinctly .
The most suitable speed of rotation is not exactly the same for all persons ; the disk should generally be made to turn some six or eight times per second .
After-images following brief Retinal Experiment IV .
What may he regarded as the negative after-image of a black spot upon a white ground is shown by the ordinary method of observation as a patch of more intense whiteness .
It was of interest to ascertain whether , by means of the disk arrangement , a black object could be made to assume a continuous appearance of abnormal whiteness .
Several broad bands S inch wide were painted with " artist 's black " upon a white card .
When this was placed behind the rotating disk and exposed to direct sunshine , the effect was exceedingly striking , the painted portions appearing as bands of glittering whiteness upon a ground which by contrast seemed to be of a neutral grey tint .
With strong lamplight or diffused daylight the phenomenon was almost equally remarkable ; but , for some unexplained reason , the ground seemed to acquire a very pale purple tint instead of being , as in the former case , quite neutral .
All the above observations can , of course , be accounted for quite easily in the ordinary way by the Young-Helmholtz theory of vision .
The only novelty in connection with them consists in the demonstration of the fact that the action of light after a period of darkness ( which need not exceed one-twentieth of a second ) can appreciably diminish the sensibility of the retinal nerve-fibres in a space of time .so extremely short that if the light be coloured its colour is not consciously perceived .
The experiments clearly indicate the origin of the greenish-blue borders which I was unable to explain at the time when my former paper was written .
If the hypothesis suggested in that paper is correct , it now seems that the coloured borders produced by sudden changes of illumination are , whatever their hue , in all cases primarily due to sympathetic action of the red nerve-fibres of the retina .
iSTote added May 6 .
[ The transient blue border which ordinarily appears to surround a black patch suddenly formed upon a white ground ( .
cit. , p. 375 ) becomes transformed under strong illumination into a pale red one .
White letters printed upon black paper , when seen through the disk turning the reverse way , appear to be blue under ordinary illumination , and red wlmn the lamp is brought very near the disk.\#151 ; May 6 .
]

