]\gt ; Prof. W. E. Ayrton and Dr. W. E. Sumpner .
III .
' The Measurement of the Power given by any Elecffio Current to any Circuit By W. E. AYRTON , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Physics in the City and Guilds of London Institute , and W. E. SUMPNER , D.Sc .
Received March 16 , 1891 .
I. During the meeting of the Electrical Congress at Paris in 1881 , one of us*devised a method of using am electrometer for measuring the power given to any circuit by any current .
The accuracy of the method is wholly independent of the nature of the , which may possess self-induction , mutual induction capacity , and an E.M.F. , as well as of the nature of the current , which may be constant , intermittent , or alter .
nating , according to any funotion of the time .
This method is the only electrical one published up to the present date the accuracy of whioh is not based on assumptions , either as regards the nature of the current or as regards the entire absence of self- and mutual induction from a circuit some portion of which is sarily of a solenoidd form , or as regards the nature of the circnit the power given to which we desire to measure .
In view then of the present wide nse of alternating currents fox industrial purposes , it might have been expected that this electro .
meter method of measuring the power given by any intermittent alternating curl'ent to an inductive cuit would have been employed .
Unfortunately , however , as pointed out by one of us in conjunction with Professor Perry , the use of this method is ricted by the fact that Sir W. Thomson 's quadrant electrometers do not geIlerally obey the mathematical law given for these instru ments in text-books , as it was supposed they did when eIectrometer method of measuring power was first suggested .
And hence the main result that has , up bo the present time , followed from the tion of this method has been the stimulation of minds to devise forms of electrometers in which the text-book lavr ie strictly fulfilled .
In 1888 , Mr. Blakesley published a very ingenious method fot using three dynamometers to measure the power given by an * This method was simultaneously arrived at independently by Professor gerald .
' Journal of Soc. of Tel. Engs .
and Elects vol. 17 , 1888 .
We may mention that an investigation on Quadrant lElectrometers going on from time to time at the Institution for the last five we had hoped to have communicated the complete report long before this to Society .
Power given by any Electric Current to any Circuit .
425 current to the primary coil of a transformer .
His original proof , geometrical one , was based on various hypotheses , amorigst others , that the primary and secondary currents and the flux were sine functions of the time .
Recently , one of us , in conjunction with Mr. Taylor , has published* an analytical proof showing that Mr. Blakesley 's three dynamometer method of measuring power gives equally true results , whatever functions the curremts and magnetic flux bs of the time .
There still however , remains a serious objection to this method , , that it assumes the absence of magnetic leakage in the transformer , or in other words , that the number of lines of force embraced by one convolution of the primary coil at any moment is the same as the number of lines of force embraced by one convolution of the secondary .
Further , the three dynamometer method cannot be used to measure the power given to a single circuit , as the coils of one of the dynamometers have necessarily to be put in different circnits .
The employment of an electromagnetic wattmeter for the measurement of electric power is well known , and investigators have considered the error that is introduced into wattmeter measurements made with alternating currenls on account of the fine-wire circuit of the wattmeter possessing ction .
This fine-wire circuit usnally consists of a suspended coil in series with a so-called noninductive stationary high resistance , and various devices have been adopted by different experimenters to make the effective self-induction of this fine-wire circuit nought .
One of the simplest of these devices we ventnre to think is that proposed by one of us in conjunction with Mr. Mather , and which consists in winding the stationary so-called non-inductive resistance in such a way that the capacity of this doubly-wound coil practically neutralises the effect of the self-induction of the suspended coil .
II .
Several months ago , however , while working at alternate currenl mterference , we noticed that it was possible to employ extremely simple method , based on the differeIlce of phase of the P.D. and the current , for measuring the power by any current to any .
This method , which has since been in regular use in the laboratories of the Central , is quite independent of any assumptions as to the nature of the current , or of the circuit , the power given to which it is to measure , and it has the further great advantage that the only measuring instrument required is the ordinary alternate-current voltmeter of commerce .
In series with the circuit ab ( fig. 1 ) , the , power given to wltich desire to measure , connect -inductive resistance of ohms .
* Meeting of Physical Society , , 1891 .
Prof. W. E. Ayrton and Dr. W. E. Sumpner .
FIG. 1 .
Let , and be the readings of the voltmeter when applied between and and , and and respectively ; then , if be the mean watts supplied to the circuit , we have in all cases , whatever the nature of the current , or of the circuit ab\mdash ; .
For , let , and be the instantaneous values of the P.D. between and and , and and at some moment then .
If be the current in amperes flowing through the circuit at time , then equals the watts given to at that time .
But since the resistance is non-inductive ; Then , squaring we have\mdash ; .
Consequently , or , the equation given above .
If the resistance of be not , or if there be any fear it may be changed by the passage of the current , then an Powepgiven by any Electric Current to any Circuit .
427 mate current ammeter , of course , if alternate currents be employed ) can be in the .
Let be the reading of this nmmeter , and which represents the square root of the mean square of current , then , for in ( l ) we may substitute , or . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) .
When employing this last formula , the non-inductive resistance may be that offiered by incandescent lamps , since there is no objec- tiom to the resistance .
with different mean strenghs of the curoent employed .
This voItmeter method of measuring power was arrived at quite independently of the electrometer method referred to above , but an examination of the electrometer method shows that it is practically equivalent to simultaneous measurements of three P.Ds .
III .
The method which we have described for measuring the power given by any current to circuit may be conveniently employed for measuring the power given to an alternating-curlent arc , or to an alternating-current arc-lamp .
It is known that an alternating-current arc requires a greater current than a direct-current arc to produce the same light with similar carbons ; for example , a 10-ampere direct-current lamp requires amperes , or 25 .
cent. larger current , when 1lsed with an rnating current .
In a masterly paper on " " The Theory of Alternating Currents read before the Society of Telegraph Engineers , on November 13th , 1884 , Dr. Hopkinson refers to a law given by Joubert , that the difference of potential between the carbons in an alternating arc is of approximately constant numerical value throughout the period , and that it reverses sign discontinuously at each reversal of the current .
Using this law as his basis , he works out ihematically some very curious relationships between the variations of current and P.D. with time .
Three of our senior students , Messrs. Kolkhorst , Thornton , and Weeks , have been making a number of experiments on the power BUpplied to alternating-current arcs by using the method of measurpower described above .
From these experiments it would appear that the quality of the carbon employed affects materially the difference in phase between the currents passing through the arc and the .
between the carbons .
If the arc be quite steady and only give out the rhyJhmic hum that accompanies a good arc , such as can be obtained with cored carbons of proper quality , the arc appears to act Practically as a simple resistance , and M. Joubert 's law does not hold .
But if the arc be maintained between uncored carbons of poor 428 Prof. W. E. Ayrton and Dr. W. E. umpner .
quality , and bs hissing , there is considerable difference in pbuo between the current and the P.D. between the terminals ; furtM , the experiments show that current is very far from being a sine function of the time , although produced by a dynamo whose E.M. normally follows a ha , rmonic law .
We do not purpose , in this communication , to enter at length into these on alternate-current arcs , but a few examples of the experimental results that have been obtained will be interesting as illustrating the ready applicability of this new method of ing power to such investigations .
In addition to the dffierence of phase of P.D. and curreut that may be produced in the arc itself , there is the electromagnet to be sidered by which the distance between the carbons is usually regu .
lated in arc lamps .
This electromagnet will introduce lag between the P.D. at the terminals of the lamp and the current passing through the electromagnet and the arc in series ; and hence , even although the arc be perfectly steady , we find , even in the case of It Brush lamp especially intended for alternate ctlrrents , that the true power supplied to the omagnet and arc is 20 per cent. less than the product of the readings of the ammeter and the voltmeter attached to the lamp terminals , and which gives the square root of the mean product of the squares of the current and P.D. If , however , the arc be between common carbons and be hissing , tho difference , we find , is much greater .
With cored carbons this Brush requires a P.D. of about 35 volts to be maintained between its terminals , but if these cored carbons be replaced by common carbons and the arc be hissing , the P.D. between the of the lamp at once rises to 45 or even 50 volts , although the current passing through the lamp and the amount of light given out remain practically as before .
And then we find that the true power supplied to the lamp may be only one-half of the square root of mean product of the squares of the current and P.D. , so that the eadings of the ammeter and volcmeter alone make the apparent power twice as great as the true power .
For the purpose of easily estimating the ratio of the true to the apparent power supplied , formula ( 3 ) may be thus written , . . . . . . . . . . . .
from we see that the expression in the brackets represents the ratio of the true to the apparent power supplied to the lamp or circuit ab ( fig. 1 ) .
Hence the percentage error made.in assuming that the power supplied to any circuit was the product of the am , meter and voltmeter readings would be in all cases , whatever nature of the current or of the circuit , Power given by any Etect.ic Current to any Circuit .
429 The following are samples of [ the results obtained with a handregulated lamp , there being no electromagnet at all in series with FIG. 2 .
the arc ( fig. 2 ) .
The carbons were not cored and the arc was hissing .
The frequency was maintained at 200 periods per second .
Table I. For the purpose of obtaining an idea of , the angle of phase erence produced by the hissing arc , between the current and the 430 Prof. W. .
Ayrton and Dr. W. E. Sumpner .
, we may assume that the P.D. and current are sine functionSof the time ; then , as may be easily proved , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 6 ) and the values of for the two tests given above come out aS and .
It will , of course , be observed that this assump .
tion of a harmonic law for the P.D. and current for the purpose of obtaining some idea of the value of in no way affects the generality of the method for the measurement of power , since this is on no such assumption .
The following are samples of the results obtained with a Brush alternate-current regulated by an electromagnet ( fig. 3 ) , the FIG. 3 .
carbons not being cored , and the arc hissing .
The freqnency maintained at 200 periods per second .
1S$1 .
] Power given by any Electric Current to Circuit .
Table II .
festimating The experiments already descrioed tell us that a hissing arc may cause a considerable phase difference between the P.D. and the current , but they do not enable us to decide whether such an arc causes the current to lag behind the P.D. , or to lead in front of it .
To deeide this point , that is , to decide whether a hissing arc acts like an inductive coil , or a condenser , a variety of experiments were made by putting or capacity in series with the arc .
The following gives the result of one such experiment : series with a handregulated lamp ( and , therefore , containing no electromagnet ) , was placed a condenser of 89 microfarads ( fig. 4 ) .
Uncored carbons were used , and they were adjusted so that the arc was very short at first ; the carbons were then not ouched , and , as they burnt ) the arc grew longer and longer until it finally went out .
The frequency was maintained at 200 periods per second .
FIG. 4 .
Prof. W. E. Ayrton and Dr. W. E. Sumpner .
Table Comparing with the E.N.F. of the dynamo , we see that the arc and the condenser together acted as a condenser on the whole ; but , comparing with , we see that the arc acted as an induction and not as a capacity .
It having been conclusively proved that a hissing arc with uncored carbons acts an induction , it was interesting to compare the impedance it produces with the impedance produced by the ordinary regulating electromagnet of the lamp .
The arc itself seen in fig. 3 was , therefore , short-circuited , and the following measurements made , now being the square root of the mean square of the P.D. between the termihals of the regulating electromagnet , before that between the terminals of the non-inductive resistanoe , that between and , the arc , as already explained , being short-circuited .
The frequency was maintained at 200 periods per second .
able I We have , then , P.D. measurements giving the phase difference of current and P.D. with the arc alone ( Table I and fig. 2 ) ; with arc and regulating electromagnet ( Table II and fig. 3 ) ; and with the electromagnet alone ( Table ) .
Defining impedance in the usual way as the ratio of the square root of mean square of P.D. to the square root of mean square of we find from the two sels of results on Table I , that given by any Electric Current to any Circuit .
433 the impedance of the arc alone equals . . . . . . . . . .
; from the three sets of resuIts given in Table II , that the impedance of the arc and electromagnet equals and from the two sets of results given in Table IV , that the impedance of the electromagnet alone equals . .
In order to test whether the current follows a harmonic law , let us assume that it does , then find what result this assumption leads to , and , lastly , see whether the experiments confirm this result or not .
Let , therefore , the instantaneous current at any moment be of the form ( pt\mdash ; ) , where is the effective resistance in each case , , the ratio of the true watts given to the circuit divided by the mean square of the current in amperes , and where equals being the number of periods per second .
In each of the seven experiments referred to in Tables I , II , and Iy , was 200 .
The seven values of in ohms corresponding with the seven values of the impedance given above are for the Arc alone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aro and electromagnet . . . . . . .
Electromagnet alone . . . . . . . . .
And , since the impedance equals , if the harmonic ] be true , the values of are , for Arc alone. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arc and electromagnet . . . . . . .
Electromagnet alone . . . . . . . . .
434 Prof. W. E. Ayrtoll and Dr. W. Hi .
Sumpner .
But if the harmoniclaw hold for the current , the sum of Lp for arc alone , plus the for the electromagnet alone , must equal the for the arc and electromagnet , since the same value in eaoh case .
Now it is obvious that the condition is far from being with the numbers just given .
Hence the current does not follow a harmonic is interesting to notice that the for the hissing arc alone is actually greater than the for the regulating electromagnet .
The values given above for , being obtained by dividing the true watts by the mean square of the current in amperes , are the of #ective resistances in ohms\mdash ; whether tlJe current follows a harmonic law not .
Hence , by comparing the value of for ths regulating electro .
magnet alone with its resistance in ohms , measured with a steady current , we have a true measure of the waste of energy in the iron oore of the electromagnet due to hysteresis and Foucault currents .
the resistance of this for a steady current is only ohm ; hence 90 per cent. of the energy given to the regulating of this Brush lamp is wasted in heating its iron core when the fi.equency is 200 .
Here again we have a further illustration of the importance of being able to measure , by means of the simple method we have described , the power given by any current to any circuit .
Added Tarch 3 , 1891 .
IV .
The Best to give the Non-Inductive Resistance .
In cases where great accuracy is required in the measnrement the power given to a circuit , it is to consider what valne should be given to the resistance ( fig. 1 ) , in order to reduce to a minimum error that may from possible ' accuracies made in the three of the voltmeter , or on the graduation of its scale .
Since , , where are the errors made in the estimation of three P.Ds .
Let Power given by any Electric Current to any Circuit .
435 where is a small fraction , , let the erro ] be each the same small fraction of the correct value , then the probable value of is , so that . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 7 ) .
Let the non-inductive resistance have uch a value that ( 8 ) , being already defined , the square root of the mean square of the P.D. between its terminals , and the square root of the mean square of the P.D. between the of the circuit the power given to which we desire to measure .
Then we wish to find the value of that will make a minimum .
Let be the angle of lag between the current in the circuit and the P.D. at the terminals of ab ( fig. ] ) , then is the angle of lag between the P.D. at the terminals of and the P.D. at the terminals of .
Hence , since , and being the instantaneous values of the P.Ds .
, ( 9 ) .
Eliminating , and by means of equations ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) , and ( 9 ) , we have Now depends on the circuit , the power given to which we desire to measure , and is independent of .
Hence differentiating with respect to and equating to nought in the usual manner , we find that equal to unity makes aminimum .
Hence , inaccuracies in the three readings of the voItmeter , or in the graduation of its scale , produce the least effect in this method of measuring power when the P.D. between the terminals of the nonlnductive resistance is to the P.D. at the terminals of the circuit under test .
The next point to consider is , what is the percentage error made in meaSuring the power by this method compared with the percentage error made in ding one of the P.Ds .
Let equal unity , then Prof. W. E. Ayrton and Dr. W. E. umpner .
or Now is the ratio of the percentage made in measuring the power to the percentage error made in measuring one of the P.Ds .
and the right-hand side of the last equation we find equals from 4 to 5 for the values of the lag angle that occur in ordinary practice .
If then there were a positive or a negative erro1 of 1 per cent. in each of the measurements of , and thelg would be a probable error of from 4 to 5 per cenb .
in the measure .
meant of the power .
The probable error in the measure .
meant of the power being from 4 to 5 times the error in measurement of each of the P.Ds .
arises from the fact that the expression for , bein depends directly on the difference in the mean squares of the P.Ds , and not on the difference of the square roots of the mean squares nd as all instruments that are graduated for measnring the squar root of the mean square of an alternating P.D. such as a hot-wir voltmeter , an electrostatic voltmeter , \amp ; c. , really measure the mea11 square and not the square root of the mean square directly , it would be belter , if such an instrument were to be employed for the method of measuring powel .
described in this paper , that it should be graduated in mean squares of P.Ds .
and not in the square roots 01 the mean squares .
In that case a similal line of reasoning to thuI employed shows that the probable percentage error in the measurement of power by the method would be from 2 to times the error in the measurement of each of the P.Ds .
It is , of course , clear that these errors to which we have referring are not errors in any way essential to the method for measuring power , by the employment of an graduated voItmeter , by exercising care in taking the readings , if necessary , by repeating the measurements two or three times taking the means of the observations , the power can be any degree of accuracy Power given by any Electric Current to any Circuit .
437 proximate Calculation of the Power from the Three Readings of the Voltmeter .
The calculation of the from formula ( 1 ) easy , especially when the volbmeter is graduated to read the mean squares of the P.DS .
and uot the square roots of the mean squares .
If , however , as is usually the case .
the scale is graduated in square roobs , even the trouble of taking the squares may be saved , when does not differ much from , by using the following method:\mdash ; Let the inductive resistancs be arranged so that is nearly equal to , and let ; tlIen , sinoe we have by equal to and eliminating , and from the last two equations , .
NUW the power that would be given to ab ( fig. 1 ) if there were no lag , or the appareut power , as it may be called , would be ' whereas the power that is actually given to is Hence , apnarent power \mdash ; the power the appatent power \ldquo ; approximately if the lag be very large .
For example , suppose or were 50 volts , and were 98 volts , thon , or Power given by any Electric Current to any Circuif .
would be 4 per cent. Hence the true power would be 8 per cent. than the apparent power .
Or , in other words , to find the true power given to ab ( fig. 1 ) , we should merely lave to diminish by8 per cent. and the answer would be obtained .
If were unknown , and the square root of the mean square of he current were measured instead , then ) obtain the true power for the values of , and given above , we should diminish the apparent power , by 8 per cent. We will finally consider what is the percentage errol made in estimating the power by the method last described , compared with the percentage error made in taking the value of Let us assume that , on account of errol.s in the readi ) of , of and of , or on account of inaccuracies in the graduation of the voItmeter , the value of is taken as half a volt greater its true value , that is , that this expression is erroneously increased by 1 per cent. of if we assume to be 50 volts as above .
will be also increased by 1 per cent. , and since the true power is obtained by subtracting from the apparent power times the apparent power , it follows that the power measured in this way will be estimated as 2 per cent. too if the combined error made in measuring be plus 1 per cent. of VI .
Measuring the out by an Alternate-Current Dynamo .
In conseqnence of the trouble usually experienced in correctly measuring the power given to an inductive circuit , it is usual when measuring the power given out by an alternate-current dynamo use for the outside circmts various resistances , all of which are as far as practicable non-inductive .
But as the construction of non-inductive high resistances that will take large currents is a trouble- some matter , we suggest the following as a convenient method of overcoming the necessity of employing such a non-inductive circuit : Let the circuit extel'nal to the dynamo be ( fig. 1 ) , a portion of which is non-inductive ; then , if and have the values already given them , it is easy to show that the power given to both the indnctive and non-inductive portion of , that is , to circuit external to the dynamo , is .
we te that , if only a small portion of the circuit be strictly non-inductive , this voltmeter method of measuring the power given out by an alternate-current dynamo will give more accurate .
Prof. S. P. Thompson .
On .
439 1ults than can be often obtained by assuming that a so.called noninductive circuit is really non-inductive , and , thorefore , that the ipparent power is the true power .
IV .
" " On GalvaJJo-Hysteresis .
( Preliminary Notice By SILVANUS P. THOMPSON , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Professor of Physics in the City and Guilds Technical College , Finsbury .
Communicated by Professor G. AREY FOSTER , B.A. , B.Sc , , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1891 .
1 .
If a sufficiently strong eutric current is passed through a coil of insulated soft iron wire for a short time , and the wire then disconnected , and if , afber the lapse of any length of time , the wire is placed in the circuit of a galvanometer , and is then subject longitudinal magnetisation or to a succession of alternately directed longitudinal magnetisations , it is found to discharge an electric current through the 2 .
The direction of the current discharged , from the iron wire is found to be the same as that of the curx.ent which was ally passed through it .
3 .
The direction of the discharge curremt opposite to that in which the discharge current would flow if the wire acted as a condenser .
4 .
A which has once produced such a discharge current will not produce a second unless again traversed by a charge .ing current .
5 .
A wire which has not been subjected to any preliminary process of charging , that is to .
say , one since being annealed has not boon traversed by an electric current , does not sensibly show any such Phenomena , either when subjected to magnetisation ol to a nccession of alternate tions .
6 .
The sense of the discharge current is quite independent of the direction of the longitudinal magnetisation used in producing the turbauce which eifects the discharge .
7 .
The time-integral of the discharge cnrrent is independent of the dnlation of the charging current , provided this not too suddenly turned off .
It increases with the strength of the charging current up to a celtain limit , being proportional to it through a tain r ) ndependent oength Fcharging crtain given strength tischarge current fgiven wreatestbroken beurrent ireduced ozero ayits ovary o

