101 fractional ) of a matrix , and thence to arrive at the notion of a rational and integral function , or generally of any algebraical function of a matrix .
I obtain the remarkable theorem that any matrix whatever satisfies an algebraical equation of its own order , the coefficient of the highest power being unity , and those of the other powers functions of the terms of the matrix , the last coefficient being in fact the determinant .
The rule for the formation of this equation may be stated in the following condensed form , which will be intelligible after a perusal of the memoir , viz. the determinant , formed out of the matrix diminished by the matrix considered as a single quantity involving the matrix unity , will be equal to zero .
The theorem shows that every rational and integral function ( or indeed every rational function ) of a matrix may be considered as a rational and integral function , the degree of which is at most equal to that of the matrix , less unity ; it even shows that in a sense , the same is true with respect to any algebraical function whatever of a matrix .
One of the applications of the theorem is the finding of the general expression of the matrices which are convertible with a given matrix .
The theory of rectangular matrices appears much less important than that of square matrices , and I have not entered into it further than by showing how some of the notions applicable to these may be extended to rectangular matrices .
IV .
" A Memoir on the Automorphic Linear Transformation of a Bipartite Quadric Function .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1857 .
[ Abstract .
] The question of the automorphic linear transformation of the function x +y2+ z2 , that is the transformation by linear substitutions , of this function into a function x+ +y,2+ z_2 of the same form , is in effect solved by some formulae of Euler 's for the transformation of coordinates , and it was by these formulae that I was led to the solution in the case of the sum of n squares , given in my paper " Sir quelques proprietes des determinants gauches , " Crelle , t. xxxii .
pp. 119-123 ( 1846 ) .
A solution grounded upon an a-priori investigation and for the case of any quadric function of n variables , was first obtained by M. Hermit in the memoir " Remarques sir un Memoir de M. Cayley relatif aux determinants gauches , " Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal , t. ix .
pp. 63-67 ( 1854 ) .
This solution is in my Memoir " Sir la transformation d'une function quadratique en elle-meme par des substitutions lineaires , " Crelle , t. 1 .
pp. 288-299 ( 1855 ) , presented under a somewhat different form involving the notation of matrices .
I have since found that there is a like transformation of a bipartite quadric function , that is a lineolinear function of two distinct sets , each of the same number of variables , and the development of the transformation is the subject of the present memoir .
V. " On some of the Products of the Destructive Distillation of Boghead Coal."-Part II .
By C. GREVILLE WILLIAMS , Esq. , Lecturer on Chemistry in the Normal College , Swansea .
Communicated by Professor SToKEs , Sec. R.S. Received December 17 , 1857 .
[ Abstract .
] In this paper the author describes the method adopted by him for the separation of the three classes of hydrocarbons forming the more volatile portion of the distillate .
On treatment with bromine in presence of water , the naphtha is entirely converted into a heavy oil , containing the C " H " series chemically , and propyle and benzole mechanically combined .
The two latter may be removed by mere distillation on the water-bath .
They are easily separable by fuming nitric acid , the benzole being dissolved while the propyle is untouched .
The nitro-benzole obtained in this manner , on treatment by Bechamp 's process , yields aniline mixed with a little toluidine , but no bases belonging to any other class .
The bromine compound ( in consequence of its preparation in presence of water ) could not be obtained free from oxygen .
When kept for some time it separates into three layers , the upper being water faintly acidulated with hydrobromic acid , the middle bromine compound , and the lower , hydrobromic acid of 37 per cent. , and the

