On the Myelins , Myelin Bodies , and Potential Fluid Crystals of the Organism .
By J. G. Adami , F.R.S. , Montreal , and L. Aschoff , Marburg .
( Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 7 , 1906 .
) ( From the Pathological Institute of the University of Marburg .
) When , in 1854 , Virchow recognised myelin as , if not a single substance identical with the essential constituent of the medulla of nerves , at least as a class of substances which chemically were closely allied thereto , he described it as possessing the following characteristics :\#151 ; ( i ) When brought into contact with water it swells up , exhibiting a characteristic morphology , and developing processes of irregular and bizarre form having a double contour .
( ii ) Easily soluble in hot alcohol , becoming in part precipitated on cooling .
( iii ) Rapidly dissolved in ether , chloroform , and turpentine .
( iv ) Acted upon but slowly and to a slight extent by weak acids and alkalies .
( v ) Undergoing shrinkage under the action of strong alkalies , with loss of characteristic properties .
( vi ) Swelling greatly under the action of concentrated sulphuric and other strong acids , with eventual dissolution .
Substances possessing these properties to a greater or less extent , and especially the property of swelling in water and exhibiting " myelin forms , " have been recorded during the last 50 years as occurring in very many organs , and these either under physiological or under pathological conditions .
How widespread they are is indicated by the following table , which we give because we have not met with any attempt at a full classification in the recent literature of the subject:\#151 ; I. Intracellular Myelin Bodies.\#151 ; These are small , highly retractile bodies situated within the cytoplasm , which , under the action of water or physiological salt solution , swell up and assume irregular forms .
According to the conditions under which they are found they may be redivided into\#151 ; A. Physiological , or associated with normal regressive processes , in\#151 ; The suprarenal cortex of man and of several vertebrates ( Kaiserling and Orgler ) .
The granular cells of the corpora lutea ( Do .
) .
The thymus gland ( I)o .
) .
Profs .
J. G. Adami and L. Aschoff .
[ June 6 B. Pathological.\#151 ; Fatty patches of the aortic endothelium ( Do .
) .
Atheromatous areas in the arterial walls ( Mettenheimer , Torhorst ) .
Lungs : Alveolar epithelium of the new born ( Hochheim ) , and of adults .
( Wagner ) , lung tissue in general in various diseased states ( Virchow , , Mettenheimer , etc. ) , bronchial epithelium ( Schmidt , Kaiserling , and Orgler ) .
Kidney : Fatty degeneration ( Albrecht , Lohlein and , in certain cases-only , Kaiserling and Orgler ) , cells of renal tubules after arterial ligature ( Albrecht ) .
Crystalline lens in both soft and hard cataract ( Mettenheimer ) .
Tumours ; cells of many tumours , cancerous and sarcomatous ( Kaiserling and Orgler ) .
C. Autolytic , developing post-mortem in the aseptically preserved organ .
Lung , alveolar epithelium ( Albrecht , Hochheim ) .
Kidney and liver cells ( Albrecht , Waldvogel , Dietrich and Hegel , etc. ) .
Skeletal and heart muscle ( Dietrich and Hegel ) .
Here may be included possibly the myelin bodies seen often in morning sputum ( Muller and Schmidt ) , developed in dissociated cells .
The cases of appearance of myelin bodies in the cells of necrosed areas , would appear to form a connecting class between B and 0 .
II .
Diffused Myelin.\#151 ; Myelin not recognisable in the tissues in the form of discrete bodies , but gained from them by digestion with alcohol .
Here are included myelin substances from the brain and nerve tissue-(Berzelius , Drummond , Virchow , Gobley , Liebreich , etc. ) , egg yolk ( Gobley , Virchow ) , spleen , suprarenal medulla and colloid thyroid ( Virchow ) , blood ( Gobley ) , mesenteric chyle ( Beneke ) , red corpuscles-(Albrecht ) , pus ( Virchow ) .
Indeed , most organs if digested with absolute alcohol at 40 ' to 45 ' C. will yield lecithin-like substances which become precipitated in part upon cooling to 0 ' C. and in various fluids afford well-marked myelin forms .
And , as pointed out 44 years ago by Beneke , this form of myelin is widely distributed throughout the animal and vegetable kingdoms .
III .
Myelin-like Substances in Secretions.\#151 ; Bile of gall bladder ( Virchow ) , Contents of small intestine after fatty meal ( Beneke ) .
Leaving aside the second class , in which it would seem that we have to deal with impure lecithin ( for lecithin purified from cholesterin does not , we On the Myelins , etc. , of the Organism .
1906 .
] find , exhibit marked myelin formation ) , it is obvious from the descriptions given of the microchemical characters , either that there are several bodies possessing myelin properties , or , if only one body , that then it exists in very varying degrees of purity , for the reaction with osmic acid varies , as does that with dyes such as Sudan III , neutral red , saffranin and methylene blue .
In one and the same specimen these reactions may vary .
A very characteristic property of a large number of myelin bodies ( shown , we find , very imperfectly by the autolytic group , at least in the early stages of autolysis ) is that of double refraction .
If a section or some of the .expressed juice of the suprarenal be taken , what under the ordinary microscope .appear to be minute fatty globules are seen in part to exhibit double refraction under polarised light .
Between the crossed Nmol 's prisms each little globule exhibits a black cross with four highly illuminated , bright ; and colourless intervening sectors .
This property was first observed by Mettenheimer in 1858 , rediscovered by Apathy for nerve myelin in 1890 , by Muller and Schmidt in 1898 for sputum myelin and again , independently , by Kaiserling and Orgler for suprarenal myelin in 1902 .
The question whether the presence of doubly refracting myelin globules in atheromatous vessels as noted by Torhorst in the laboratory of Aschoff could be reconciled with Klotz 's detection in Adaini 's laboratory of compound soaps in the same areas led to the present investigation .
The following bodies gave negative results : pure fatty acids , the glycerides .of fatty acids ( neutral fats ) , pure lecithin , * pure protagon , cholesterin , sodium , potassium and calcium stearates and palmitates , spermin plus oleic acid .
Under no conditions of heating or employing various menstrua could we with these obtain doubly refracting globules .
The following bodies gave positive results : the oleates of sodium potassium , ammonium and calcium ; the stearate and palmitate of ammonium ; cholesteryl oleate , palmitate , stearate , and butyrate ( obtained by heating together cholesterin and one or other fatty acid ) , lecithin plus cholesterin ( ?
cholesteryl lecithate ) ; clrolin oleate ; lecithin acted upon by ammonia , caustic potash , and caustic soda .
With all these substances by .one or other means it was possible to gain perfect small spherules , highly refractive , affording the characteristic cross when examined between Nmol 's prisms .
It was clear , therefore , that , inter ali , certain bodies of the nature of soaps afford this particidar reaction .
But at the same time , with not a few of these bodies , notably the simple soaps and the lecithin compounds with which the * The form employed was Riedel 's lecithol : the so-called pure lecithin from egg yolk contains abundant cholesterin .
Profs .
J. G. Adami and L. Aschoff .
[ June 6 , investigation was begun , we could not determine with accuracy what were the factors leading to the successful production of the globules .
Of two preparations made apparently alike and subjected to like treatment , one might present them , the other not .
Often , notably in the case of the stearic and palmitic acid compounds , the phenomenon was transient , not to say momentary .
After heating the two components together to form the salt ( or soap ) and this in the presence of water or weak alcohol , upon examining the slide as it cooled , the globules might flash out , sometimes in a perfect rain over the field , and rapidly give place to a general crystallisation .
Globules which cannot persist at the room temperature cannot be taken into consideration as being possibly associated with the doubly refractive myelin bodies of the human organism .
The stearic and palmitic compounds are thus seen to be placed aside .
But even with the simple oleates , potassium oleate , for example , while globules might be present even after several days , in other preparations they might be wholly wanting , being replaced by crystals .
This with the simple soaps was the rule and not the exception .
These uncertainties , coupled with the evident relationship of the globules to the process of crystallisation , and the observation that the condition in the atheromatous aorta disappeared upon heating , to reappear upon cooling , led one of us to consult his colleague , Professor B. Schenck , regarding the nature of these globules , and , as it happened , he consulted one of the authorities upon the subject .
As the work of Lehmann and Schenck is evidently as little known by other pathologists and biologists as it was to us , a short notice of their observations is imperative .
Briefly , these doubly refractive globules are " fluid spherocrystals .
" The present status of knowledge and opinion regarding these is given clearly and succinctly in Schenck 's 'Flussige Kristalle ' ( Leipzig , Engelmann , 1905 ) .
We would here thank Professor Schenck heartily for his aid in this and other matters .
The impression that a crystal is a solid unyielding body cannot be maintained .
It has been known for long that metals like lead and gold can , under pressure , be forced through apertures , as also with ease can solid sodium .
The earlier view was that we had to deal with the gliding of one solid crystal upon the other .
Lehmann 's observations , extending over more than fifteen years , have shown that there exist substances which , when heated , pass into an intermediate state .
From being solid they become fluid , but still , under polarised light , they are seen to maintain the characteristic crystalline feature of being doubly refractive or at least of containing doubly refractive bodies .
Some of these fluids are thick like olive oil , some , as for instance j ?
ara-azoxyphenetol , are more fluid than water .
Heat to On the Myelins , etc. , of the Organism .
1906 .
] a further degree , and the fluid becomes perfectly isotropic without a sign of double refraction .
In this intermediate phase we deal with crystalline fluids , and the individual crystals are fluid crystals , capable of being distorted by slight pressure .
We will not enter into the distinction between flowing , or ductile , and fluid crystals , for the difference is purely one of degree .
Nor is it necessary here to discuss the opposing theories of Tammann and Quincke , that the phenomenon is essentially due to the presence of two substances , the truly fluid matrix and the suspended crystalline body .
Schenck has demonstrated by exact physical methods that it is capable of occurring with absolutely pure bodies of this order .
When the substances of this nature are suspended in an inert matrix , upon passing from the solid to the intermediate state or on being cooled from the isotropous to the intermediate state the separate globules assume the form and characters of anisotropic fluid spherocrystals .
Towards the end of 1905 some 20 substances of this nature had been described .
The majority of these are para-derivatives of anisol and phenetol , with melting points considerably above 100 ' C. and " clearing points " ( when they become isotropic ) from 20 ' to 300 ' C. higher ( this last in the case of silver iodide ) .
Of more immediate interest is a series of esters cholesterin\#151 ; cholesteryl oleate , cholesteryl benzoate , cholestery ] propionate\#151 ; and , for our purposes , of yet greater interest is the oleic acid group .
The cholesteryl soap we have already mentioned ; Schenck reports also the Na , K , and NH3 oleates , dimethyl and trimethyl NH3 oleates .
These have not been so fully studied ; the very weakness of olein as an acid renders it difficult to obtain the substances in a state of absolute purity , free from dissociation products .
Hence their " melting " and " clearing " points have not been determined .
Altogether , towards the end of 1905 , some 20 of these crystalline fluids ( or potentially crystalline fluids ) had been described .
Their number is being rapidly increased .
Lehmann , in one of his test-papers , mentions one observer as contributing a series of 10 new bodies .
It will be seen that , employing the formation of anisotropous spherocrystals as an index , we add a considerable number\#151 ; ammonium stearate and palmitate , cholesteryl stearate , palmitate and butyrate , calcium oleate ( ?
) , * cholin oleate and possibly the lecithates of K , Na , NH3 and cholesterin .
We mention these last tentatively .
Very possibly , these bases dissociate the fatty acids from the lecithin , and the * We have here some doubt , but believe that the crystals here pass through a fluid , perfectly globular state , before passing on to the solid spherolith state , which they are apt to assume .
364 Profs .
J. G. Adami and L. Asctioff .
[ June 6 , ..spherocrystals seen by us are merely dissociation products combined with the introduced base .
One striking feature is possessed by all these crystalline fluids , that , namely , .of dissolving other substances and still undergoing crystallisation .
Ordinary crystalline substances ' can only dissolve substances that are strictly isomorphous ; these can dissolve other fluid-crystalline substances in all proportions and have a generous capacity for dissolving substances of other orders also .
This fact bears intimately upon the varying microchemical reactions exhibited by myelin bodies even in the same specimen .
This dissolving power alone is of high significance if , as indicated , diffused myelin , or myelins of lecithin-like nature , are essential constituents of the cells of most tissues .
The lecithin , present in abundance in the red corpuscles , well fits them to be the common carriers of the organism .
Associated with this is the fact that admixture lowers the melting and the clearing points ; so that of two globules of myelin , one containing admixed more fatty acid or neutral fat than the other , the one may present itself as a .strictly fluid globule\#151 ; isotropous\#151 ; the other as a crystalline fluid , globule\#151 ; anisotropous .
Similarly , the surrounding menstruum has a profound effect .
" We found with cholesteryl oleate that , using water as a menstruum , we could not by any means gain spherocrystals ; at Professor Schenck 's advice we .employed , with success , a minimal amount of dilute alcohol ; using a larger quantity , the result was that the compound remained for days completely isotropous , only as the alcohol slowly dissolved out of the oily mixture did .spherocrystals appear at the periphery .
It may here be noted that pure -cholesteryl oleate is in the intermediate state at room temperature ( 15 ' C. ) , presenting somewhat elongated prism-like crystals which , upon pressure , alter their form , regaining it when the pressure is removed .
The same is true of cholin oleate .
These properties explain the difficulties encountered in developing spherocrystals in our earlier experiments ; a slight excess of one or other constituent of the soap or change in the relative amount of the menstruum materially influences the development and appearance of the spherocrystals .
We are still uncertain whether pure lecithin forms spherocrystals ; it has all the characters of a crystalline fluid ; but for now many months attempting a great number of expedients , we have uniformly failed to develop the globular anisotropous state.* * Here it may be laid down that the formation of myelin processes and of spherocrystals , which , it is true , often exhibited by the same substance , are not necessarily correlated .
A substance may show myelin forms and not be able to exhibit spherocrystals and vice versd .
1906 .
] On the Myelins , etc. , of Organism .
What , then , is myelin ?
We are still unable to state definitely , but believe that the considerations and observations here brought forward lead one step nearer to the solution of the problem .
Various conclusions have been reached , from Beneke ( who regarded it as a glyceride of cholesterin , and laid down that " ohne Cholestearin keine Myelinformen " ) , through Liebreich ( who held that while protagon itself might not exhibit myelin forms it would probably be found that where myelin forms developed , there protagon was constantly present ) , to modem workers upon autolysis ( who ascribe the phenomena to lecithin ) , and lastly , to those who , with Neubauer and Quincke , regard myelin formation as the expression of a physical state common to a very large number of bodies .
There is one significant fact in this connection , namely , that , so , the only crystalline fluids known which are in the intermediate state at the room temperature are certain of the oleic acid compounds in fact , it may be laid down from our observations that almost all the simpler oleates and some like lecithin , of the more complex are in the fluid-crystalline state at 15 ' C Lecithin has definitely been determined to be the main constituent of the diffused myelin of normal tissues , and it is interesting to note that all the bodies , with the exception of cholesterin , which have been adduced as the essential constituent of myelin\#151 ; protagon , lecithin , soaps\#151 ; are oleic acid compounds , and , as regards cholesterin , Beneke 's experiments indicate that he dealt with cholesteryl oleate .
It may be that it is wrong to include lecithin in this group .
There exist in the organism di-stearo- and stearo-palmi to-lecithins , and these are more abundant than is di-oleo-lecithin .
While many considerations indicate that oleic acid compounds in particular possess properties most allied to those of the myelins of the organism , we cannot thus absolutely exclude the other fatty acids .
We may , however , it would seem , confidently conclude that fatty acid is essential constituent of " myelin , " and that of the fatty acids oleic acid plays the most important part .
Is it possible to proceed any further ?
The evidence at our disposal appears to point to at least two different varieties of myelin , one in which cholesteryl oleate is the essential constituent , another in which we have essentially to deal with cholin oleate .
Examining the aorta of a middle-aged man , we found in the thoracic portion a single atheromatous area , affecting the middle as well as the inner coat .
This afforded a small amount of dry atheroma material .
Upon making a smear of this , while it showed abundant and large plates of cholesterin , and abundant fatty globules , there was not a single doubly refracting globule present .
Upon warming the slide gently over the flame and VOL. lxxviii.\#151 ; b. 2 F Profs .
J. G. Adami and L. Aschoff .
[ June 6 , examining when cool , there were now abundant anisotropous globules , with typical black crosses and alternating bright quarters .
These occurred more particularly in the neighbourhood of and lying over the cholesterin plates , which showed some signs of erosion .
The indications pointed to the conclusion that here cholesterin had been taken up by the fatty globules which then became anisotropic.* We have repeatedly noted that after warming specimens\#151 ; smears\#151 ; from the atheromatous aorta , the .
spherocrystals which had been colourless became prismatic , and this prismatic colouring is characteristic of cholesterin compounds .
Virchow 's observation , confirmed by Beneke , regarding the existence of " myelin " in the gall bladder is significant , and when to this we add Hurthle 's demonstration that cholesteryl oleate is a constant constituent of the blood , and that of Aschoff that fat is absorbed actively by the epithelium of the gall bladder , thus affording the most satisfactory explanation yet given of the development of cholesterin calculi\#151 ; cholesteryi oleate being excreted and becoming dissociated\#151 ; we gain strong ground for believing that cholesteryl oleate is a more important factor in myelin formation than has hitherto been held .
If we cannot accept in its entirety Beneke 's dictum " ohne Cholestearin keine Myelinformen , " we recognise that his view , so long discredited , gains a measure of support , at least for some instances of myelin formation .
The case in favour of cholin oleate is more novel .
So far as we are aware , this substance has not hitherto been isolated .
Liebreich , in 1865 , came close to making the discovery , but was misled by his prepossession in favour of protagon , which he was the first to isolate .
He then showed that ( 1 ) protagon alone does not produce myelin forms , ( 2 ) protagon with oleic acid { with which it readily mixes ) also gives negative results , ( 3 ) a trace of neurin ( cholin ) added to the above mixture results in the production of exquisite myelin figures .
And he concluded that bodies , like protagon , which have the power of swelling in water and of being dissolved in fatty acids , develop myelin forms when dissolved in the respective soaps of these acids .
The neurin , he pointed out , must here form a soap with the excess of fatty acid , just as did Ha , K , or HH3 , which gave the same myelin formation .
The fourth experiment , to complete the series , he never attempted .
Had he done so he would have found that the presence of protagon is not essential , that cholin combines with oleic acid in the cold , forming immediately a thick crystalline fluid , a drop of which placed in water forms most extraordinary * As confirming Klotz 's observations upon the differential staining of neutral fats and soaps with Sudan III , it may be noted that in another atheromatous aorta we found that the globules which were doubly refractive assumed a paler stain with this dye , the fatty isotropous globules a deeper red .
1906 .
] On the Myelins , etc. , of the Organism .
myelin figures , more extraordinary even than those of ammonium oleate , long processes being rapidly thrown out , which coil themselves into most complicated knots .
These processes are doubly refracting .
By slightly altering the conditions of the experiment abundant spherocrystals are formed .
Here , then , we have a nitrogenous base , a product of proteid dissociation , uniting with oleic acid to form a soap .
We reserve a fuller description of the properties of this body for another occasion .
We would only point out that cholin is a constituent of both protagon and lecithin : that neither of these , it would seem , afford myelin formation in the pure state : both are unstable and that largely because of the chemically weak fatty acids which enter into their composition .
When , therefore , these bodies are found associated with myelin formation it would seem most probable that the dissociation of the combined cholin permits it to act upon the oleic acid also present and that this is the essential cause of the myelin formation in this group of cases .
There is still , we believe , some debate as to whether the neurin of Liebreich is identical with cholin or no. Employing a solution of " neurin " ( Merck ) , it may be noted that we gained like results .
Lastly it has to be noted that there exist solid , doubly refractive crystalline bodies ( or spheroliths ) as well as these fluid spherocrystals .
They are of two forms , that of solid spheres and that of spherical masses of closely packed , radiating , fine acicular needles .
The appearance under the ordinary microscope serves to distinguish these from the fluid crystals ; they lack the oily appearance of the latter , and even the most spherical of the first class are apt to be nodose on the surface , or to occur in pairs , as with some of the calcium salts , or to be distinctly irregular in shape .
Both forms may occur in the organism and both between the Mcol 's prisms give double refraction .
With the radiate form there is little chance of confusion ; of the more globular form the most frequent example is encountered in the uratie deposits in the renal collecting tubules forming the uratic " infarcts " of the new born .
In our own observations we have obtained exquisite and abundant radiate spheroliths by the action of weak formaline upon cholin oleate ( after several hours ) : of the small globular forms calcium oleate affords excellent examples .
2 f 2 On the Myelins , etc. , of the Organism .
EEFEEENCES TO LITEEATUEE .
Albrecht .
' Verhandl .
d. Deutsch .
path .
Gesell .
, ' Karlsbad , 1902 , vol. 7 .
Apathy .
' Biol. Centrlbl .
, ' vol. 9 , 1889\#151 ; 90 , p. 638 .
Aschoff .
'Yerhandl .
d. Deutsch .
path .
Gesell .
, ' Meran , 1905 .
Beneke , F. W. ' Studien ii .
d. Vorkommen , d. Verbreitung , u. d. Function von Gallenbestandtheilen , ' Giessen , 1862 .
Berzelius .
Quoted by Virchow , lo .
cit. Dietrich und Hegel .
' Arb .
a. d. path .
Instit .
zu Tubingen , ' vol. 4 , 1904 , p. 362 .
Drummond .
Quoted by Virchow , loc. cit. Gobley .
'Comptes Eendus Acad. Sci. , ' May 13 , 1854 .
Hochheim .
' Orth 's Festschrift , ' Berlin , Hirschwald , 1903 , p. 421 .
Hurthle .
' Ztschr .
f. physiol .
Chemie , ' vol. 21 , 1896 .
Kaiserling und Orgler .
' Yirch .
Arch. , ' vol. 167 , 1902 , p. 296 .
Klotz .
' Journ. of Exp. Med. , ' vol. 7 , 1905 , No. 6 .
Lehmann , 0 .
' Fliissige Kristalle , ' Engelmann , Leipzig , 1904 .
Liebreich .
' Yirch .
Arch. , ' vol. 32 , 1865 , p. 387 .
Lohlein .
' Verhandl .
d. Deutsch .
pathol .
Gesell .
, ' Breslau , 1904 , vol. 33 .
Mettenheimer .
' Corresp.-Bl .
d. Yerein .
f. ges .
Arb .
z. Forder .
d. wissensch .
Heilk 1858 , No. 31 , p. 467 .
Neubauer .
' Virch .
Arch. , ' vol. 36 , 1866 , p. 303 .
Orgler .
'Virch .
Arch. , ' vol. 167 , 1902 , p. 310 .
Quincke , G. 'Ann .
der Phys. u. Chem. , ' vol. 53 , 1894 , p. 591 .
Schmidt ( and Muller , F. ) , ' Berl .
klin .
Woch .
, ' 1898 , vol. 73 .
Tammann .
Quoted by Schenck , loc. cit. Torhorst .
' Inaug .
Diss .
, ' Marburg , 1904 .
Virchow .
' Yirch .
Arch. , ' vol. 6 , 1854 , p. 562 .
Wagner .
'Arch .
f. Heilk .
, ' vol. 3 , 1862 , and vol. 6 , 1865 .
Waldvogel und Melter .
' Munch , med .
Woch .
, ' 1906 , No. 9 .
Note during Correction.\#151 ; While this paper has been passing through the press , we have come across an article by 0 .
Stoerk ( " Ueber ' Protagon ' und fiber die gross weisse Mere , " ' Sitz.-Ber .
d. Kais .
Akad .
d. Wiss .
in Wien , ' Math.-Naturwiss .
Kl .
, vol. 115 , Abth .
3 , February , 1906 , 1 ) , in which , from a consideration of certain analyses by Panzer , the author concludes that the myelin of the chronically inflamed kidney is most probably of the nature of a compound of fatty acid and a cholesterin ester .
Other myelins ( although he does not employ the term ) he regards as possibly of the nature of protagon .

