1902.1 On Electromotive Wave accompanying Disturbance .
273 " On Electromotive Wave accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals in Contact with Electrolyte."* By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Prof. Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Professor Reinold , E.R.S. Received March 14 , \#151 ; Read May 15 , \#151 ; Revised May 21 , 1902 .
Take a rod of metal , and connect the two points A and B with a galvanometer by means of non-polarisable electrodes .
( Pig 1\gt ; \#174 ; *)- If the point O is struck , a wave of molecular disturbance will reach A and B. It will be shown that this is attended by a wave of electric disturbance .
The mechanical and the attendant electrical disturbance will reach a maximum and then gradually subside .
The resultant effect on the galvanometer will be due to EA - EB where EA and EB are the electric variations produced at A and B. The electric changes at I 'm .
1.\#151 ; In ( a ) mechanical disturbance applied at O produces similar electrical disturbances at A and B ; there is no resultant effect .
In ( b ) owing to a clamp , disturbance applied at A cannot reach B. A tap or vibration imparted to the end A produces responsive current which flows in the wire from the unexcited B to the excited end A. Disturbance of B gives rise to a current in the opposite direction , ( c ) gives the record of the response to equal stimuli applied to A and B. The ascending part of the curve shows the effect of stimulus , the falling part shows recovery , ( d ) Simultaneous stimulation of A and B gives no resultant response .
( In the records dotted lines represent recovery .
) A and B will continuously balance each other , and the resultant effect on the galvanometer will be zero , ( 1 ) if the mechanical disturbance reaches A and B at the same time and with the same intensity , ( 2 ) when the molecular condition is similar at the two points , and ( 3 ) when the rate of rise and subsidence of disturbance is the same at the two * A preliminary account of this investigation was given in a paper " On Response in Inorganic Substances , " read before the Society , June 6 , 1901 .
VOL. LXX .
U 274 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 21 points .
In order that a resultant effect may be exhibited in the galvanometer , matters have to be so arranged that ( 1 ) the disturbance may reach one point , say A and not B , and vice This may be accomplished by the method of block .
Again , a resultant differential action may be obtained even when the disturbance reaches both A and B , if the electrical excitability of one point is relatively exalted or depressed by physical or chemical means : we thus have two other means of obtaining a resultant effect , ( 2 ) by the method of relative exaltation , ( 3 ) by the method of relative depression .
Method of Block .
The electromotive effect described below may be obtained with all metals .
A piece of " tin " wire ( an alloy of tin and lead used as electric fuse ) will be found to give very good results .
A specimen of wire 1 mm. in diameter , 10 cm .
in length , is mounted in the apparatus .
( Fig. 1 , b. ) Two strips of cloth moistened with water or dilute salt solution are securely tied round two points A and B. They hang loose from EE ' ( non-polarising electrodes\#151 ; Zn in ZnS04 solution ) , so that there is no pull on the wire .
Special precautions are taken so that there is no variation of contact .
If a sharp tap be given to the side A , a transitory electrical current in response to the disturbance will flow round the circuit , which under normal conditions will be found to flow in the wire towards the more excited end A. Disturbance of B will give rise to a reverse current .
For quantitative measurement it is necessary to have the intensity of stimulus maintained uniform or increased or decreased in a definite manner .
Instead of a tap , the stimulus of torsional vibration is more satisfactory .
By maintaining the amplitude of vibration constant or increasing or decreasing the amplitude , we may either keep the stimulus constant or increase or decrease it in a definite manner .
I shall first describe some of the typical results which may be obtained with the simple " straight wire form " of the apparatus .
If worked with care it will give consistent and satisfactory results .
For quantitative measurements requiring the greatest exactitude the " cell form , " to be presently described , will be found preferable .
Recording Apparatus.\#151 ; The galvanometer used is a sensitive deadbeat D'Arsonval ; the period of complete vibration of suspended coil under experimental conditions is 11 seconds .
The records are taken by means of a cylindrical modification of the response recorder described in my previous paper , * or by means of photography .
In the latter method , a clockwork moves the photographic plate at a uniform rate and a curve is traced on the plate by the moving galvanometer spot # " On the Continuity of Effect of Light and Electric Radiation on Matter , " Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' rol .
70 , p. 159 .
1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
275 of light .
The disturbance of molecular equilibrium caused by the stimulus is attended by an electromotive variation , which gradually disappears on the restoration of the molecules to equilibrium .
The rising portion of the response curve shows the electromotive effect , due to stimulus , and the falling portion the recovery .
The ordinate represents the electromotive variation , and the abscissa the time .
Experiments to Exhibit the Balancing Effect .
If the wire has been carefully annealed , the molecular conditions of different portions are approximately the same .
Every portion of the surface will be found nearly iso-electric .
If the wire be held near the middle by the clamp , and a vibration through an amplitude of , say , 90 be given to the end A , an upward deflection will be produced ; if a vibration of 90 ' be given to B , there will be produced an equal downward deflection .
( Fig. 1 , c.)If both the ends are simultaneously vibrated , the electromotive variation at the two ends will continuously balance each other , and the galvanometer spot will remain quiescent .
( Fig. 1 , d. ) The clamp may even be removed , and the wire vibrated as a whole ; the stimulation of A and B being the same , there will be no resultant deflection .
Having found the balancing point for the clamp ( which is at or near the middle ) , if the clamp be now shifted to the left , on simultaneous vibration of A and B , the A effect will be relatively stronger ( inasmuch as the angular vibration of A is increased and that of B decreased ) , and there will be produced a resultant upward deflection .
Thus keeping the rest of the circuit untouched , by merely moving the clamp from the left , past the balancing position to the right we get either a positive or zero or a negative resultant effect .
This can be repeated any number of times .
The experiment shows further that when the amplitude of vibration is kept constant , the intensity of electromotive effect is increased by shortening the wire .
A thick wire produces a stronger response .
The direction of the current of response in the wire is in the majority of metals under normal condition , from the relatively less to the relatively more excited point .
The form of the response curve , stimulus remaining constant , is modified by the molecular condition of the wire .
A wire in a sluggish condition shows feeble response , the recovery is also slow .
The same wire after it has been vibrated for a time exhibits stronger response .
The period of recovery may also then be hastened .
Longer time is required for recovery from the effects of a stronger stimulus .
Comparison of Electric Excitability of Two Points by the Method of Balance .
As has already been said , when the clamp is put at the balancing U 2 276 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 2l !
| position , alternate equal stimulations of A and B produce equal and !
opposite electromotive effects , and when the two ends are stimulated simultaneously there is no resultant effect .
Increased Excitability produced by Preliminary Vibration._If now onehalf of the wire , say the A half , be vibrated for a time , the electric excitability of that half will be found to be more or less permanently augmented , presumably by increased molecular mobility conferred by vibration .
The response of A would now be found to be very much enhanced , as compared with its previous response , the response of B remaining the same as before .
If now both the ends are simultaneously vibrated , the balance which previously existed will be found to be disturbed , the resultant showing that A has been rendered the more excitable .
If B be now vibrated for a time , the former approximate balance will be re-established by the enhanced responsiveness of B. Thus in the following experiment with the clamp at the approximate balancing point--\#151 ; Response of A. Response of B. Resultant response .
Approximate balance .
After .
the end A has been + 5 divisions \#151 ; 4*5 divisions + 0*5 divisions vibrated After the end B has vibrated for an been equal + 105 " -45 " + 60 " length of time . . . . .
+105 " -95 " + 10 " Effect of Chemical Reagents.\#151 ; It will be shown that keeping the electrolyte by which contact is made constant , the electric excitability of the wire depends on the molecular condition of the wire .
Certain electrolytes , such as dilute solution of NaCl , dilute solution of bichromate of potash , \amp ; c. , are normal in their action , that is to say , with such contacts the response to stimulation is practically the same as with distilled water contact .
Contact made with dilute NaCl solution may therefore be regarded as the normal contact .
There are again certain chemical reagents which enhance the electrical excitability j others on the contrary produce great depression , or abolition of excitability .
Electric Comparator .
We may compare the relative electric'excitability conferred by chemical reagents by the method of balance .
Having previously obtained a balance ( with water or dilute NaCl solution contacts 1902 ] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
27 / A and B ) , one contact , say A , is touched with a few drops of Na2C03 , which is an exciting agent .
The electric excitability of A will now be found to be greater than that of B ; on simultaneous vibration of A and B there will be a disturbance of balance , giving rise to an upward deflection ( current of response towards the more excitable A ) .
Both contacts of normal saline * .
Contact A touched with TVTo.nrL solution* . .
* Response of A. Response of B. Resultant response .
+12 + 32 -12 -12 0 +20 L !
' Similarly , when A is depressed by a trace of oxalic acid the electric excitability of A is less than that of B , the resultant deflection being now downwards ( current , of response towards the relatively moie responsive B ) .
It is to be remembered that in all cases the resultant current of response in the wire is towards the more excitable point .
An interesting line of investigation rendered possible by a modification of method of balance described above is to compare the relative excitability induced by various chemical reagents , the influence of the same reagent of different strengths , and the modification of the effect caused by the duration of application .
We may thus compare the effect of the reagent in relation to the normal effect of water or dilute NaCl solution .
There is again an extremely delicate method of comparison of the relative effects of a series of compounds like Na2C03 , K2C03 , \amp ; c. Balance having been previously obtained between the normal sensitiveness of A and B , the two different solutions are now applied at the two points ; the slightest difference in their relative action is at once exhibited by .
the upsetting of the balance during stimulation , the direction of the resultant deflection indicating the more exciting reagent .
j Resultant Response by Method of Relative Depression or Exaltation .
From what has been said , it will be seen that by rendering A and B unequally excitable , a resultant response may be obtained .
The block may be abolished , and the wire may be vibrated as a whole ; the response will now be due to the differential effect at A and B. To produce difference in excitability we may subject one point , say A , to a preliminary vibration , or apply at the point a suitable chemical reagent .
By the application of the latter there will be a small P.D. between A and B : this will simply produce a displacement of the zero .
( By means of 278 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 21^ a potentiometer the galvanometer spot may be brought back to the original position .
) The shifting of the zero will not affect the general result .
The direction of this more or less permanent current , due to the small P.D. , gives no indication of the direction of current of response ; the direction of the latter is determined by the rule that the responsive current flows towards the more excitable point .
The effect of the mechanical stimulus is to produce a transient electromotive force which is algebraically superposed on the existing P.D. The deflection will take place from the modified zero , to which the spot returns during recovery .
I give four records ( fig. 2 ) : in ( a ) A is touched with NaaCO* ( which is an excitant ) : a permanent current flows from B to A : response to stimulus is in the same direction as the permanent current ( positive variation ) ; in ( b ) A is touched with a trace of oxalic acid ( which depresses the excitabilily ) , the permanent current is in the same direction as before , but the current of response is in the opposite direction ( negative variation ) ; in ( c ) A is touched with dilute KHO ( 3 parts in 1000 ) , the response is exhibited by a positive variation ; in ( d ) A is touched with stronger KHO ( 3 parts in 100 ) , the response is now exhibited by a negative variation .
The last two apparently anomalous results are due to the fact ( which will be demonstrated later ) that KHO in minute quantities is an excitant , while in larger quantities it is a depressant .
Fig. 2 .
( a ) Response when A is [ treated with sodium carbonate\#151 ; an apparent pDsitive variation W \#187 ; y\gt ; \#187 ; \#187 ; " oxalic acid\#151 ; an apparent negative variation t ( c ) 9 9 99 99 \gt ; 9 99 very dilute potash\#151 ; positive variation .
00 9i 99 99 99 99 strong potash\#151 ; negative variation .
This response is up when A is more excitable and down when B is more excitable .
Lines thus -------indicate direction of permanent current .
1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
279 Permanent current .
Current of response , j A treated with sodium carbonate 1 * V ** \#151 ; ' \#166 ; n " oxalic acid 1 \#151 ; ' }\gt ; very dilute potash *\#151 ; " , , " strong potash i 1 Current of response is always towards the more excitable point .
Detection of Traces of Physico-chemical Change .
I will now describe an experiment which will show in a striking manner how exceedingly delicate is the method of electric response to stimulation , and how *by its means we can detect and measure traces of physico-chemical changes in different parts of the same solid .
Take a wire and touch two points , one with Na2C03 solution the other with oxalic acid .
Wash the wire .
There is no trace left of the previous treatment .
Let one contact be permanently made at a normal or previously unacted point N. Let the other exploring contact be moved Fig .
3.\#151 ; Electro-molecular Explorer .
280 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 211 along from the other end towards N , the wire being mechanically I stimulated during the test .
The galvanometer spot remains quiescent I as long as the exploring contact is over normal areas .
But as soon as t it touches the zone on which is impressed the invisible image of physico-chemical change , the differential effect of stimulus at once reveals it by producing a vigorous movement of the galvanometer spot .
At Nx there was no movement , but there was an upward movement of response when the explorer came over " Carbonate .
" As the explorer passed on to N2 there was a cessation of movement , but when it reached the area marked " Oxalic " there was a vigorous movement downwards ( fig. 3 ) .
Interference Effects .
I have already described a case of interference in the galvanometric effect when the two points A and B in similar molecular conditions are simultaneously acted on by the same mechanical stimulus .
Under : these conditions the electric variation at the two points continuously j balance each other , and there is no resultant effect .
When one point is acted on by a chemical reagent , not only is its electric excitability changed , but its time relations\#151 ; its latent period , the time-rate of its acquiring the maximum electric variation , and the recovery from the effect of stimulus\#151 ; will also be modified .
Using the block method , we may place a drop of excitant Na2C03 on A and depressant KBr on B. On simultaneous vibration of A and B , the A effect being relatively much stronger than B effect , the resultant would be an upward deflection .
But on shifting the balancing clamp away from A ( thus decreasing the stimulation intensity of A and increasing that of B ) we may find a point where the A effect is equal and opposite to the B effect .
But owing to change of time relations , simultaneous vibration of A and B will no longer give a continuous balance ; instead we obtain a diphasic variation .
The diphasic curve thus obtained is exactly the same as the resultant curve deduced from the algebraic summation of the A and B curves obtained separately .
Continuous Transformation from Positive to Negative through an Intermediate Diphasic Response.\#151 ; In the following record , fig. 4 , I succeeded in obtaining a continuous transformation from positive to negative phase by continuous change in the relative sensitiveness of the two contacts .
I found that traces of after effect due to application of Na2C03 , even after it is washed off , remain for a time , the increased sensitiveness conferred disappearing gradually .
Again , if we apply Na2C03 solution to a fresh point , the sensitiveness gradually increases .
There is another interesting point , viz. , that the beginning of response is earlier when the application of Na2C03 is fresh .
In the experiment whose record is given , the wire is held at one end , and successive uniform vibrations imparted to the wire as a whole at inter- 19021 accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
281 vals of one minute by means of a torsion head at the other end .
( See ifig 2 ) Owing to after effects of previous applications of Na2C03 , the sensitiveness of A is at the beginning great , hence the resultant response is at the beginning positive or upward .
Dilute solution of Na2C03 is kext applied to B. The response of B ( down ) begins earlier , and conFio .
4.\#151 ; Transformation from positive to negative through intermediate diphasic-variation .
Thick dots represent times of application of stimulus .
tinues to grow stronger and stronger .
Hence , after this application , , the response shows a preliminary negative twitch of B followed by positive variation of A. The negative grows continuously .
At the fifth response , the two phases , negative and positive , of the double-response become equal ; after that , the negative becomes very prominent , the positive dwindling into a feeble after vibration .
Modification of the Apparatus into " Cell Form .
" The series in fig. 5 explains the transformation from the " straight wire " to 11 cell " form .
The wires A and B , cut from the same piece , are clamped separately below ; vibration of A ( the amplitude of which is measured by a graduated circle ) gives rise to a responsive current in one direction , vibration of B gives rise to a current in an opposite-direction .
Every experiment may thus be verified by corroborative and reversal effects .
The electromotive effect varies with the substance , and is sometimes considerable , for example , with " tin , " a single vibration may give rise to as high a value as 0*4 volt Or more .
The* intensity of response does not depend on the chemical activity of the-substance , for the electromotive variation in the relatively inactive tin is greater than in zinc .
Again , the sign of response , positive or Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 21 negative , is sometimes modified by the molecular condition of the wire { see below ) .
In the modified form of apparatus the wires in the cell are immersed to a definite depth in the electrolyte ; there is thus a perfect and invariable contact between the wire and the electrolyte The wire in the cell is clamped below , and torsional vibration gives rise to a strong electrical response .
If the wire be now carefully unclamped , and the vibration repeated as before , there will now be found no electrical effect .
As all the rest of the circuit was kept absolutely the same in the two different sets of experiments , these results conclusively prove that the responsive electromotive variation is solely due to the mechanical stimulation of the acted wire .
The excitatory effect due to the disturbance persists for a time .
This may be shown by keeping the galvanometer circuit open during the application of vibration , and completing it at various short intervals after the cessation , when a persisting electrical effect diminishing rapidly with time will be observed .
When the wire is brought to the normal condition , successive responses to uniform stimuli are , in the case of metals which , like tin , show no fatigue , exactly the same .
I usually interpose a high .external resistance , varying from 1 to 5 megohms , so that the galvanometer deflections may be proportional to the electromotive variations ; ( O --W/ // // // // // // // // M 1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
I ?
iG .
5.\#151 ; Successive modifications of the u straight wire ending ( b ) shows how the ends of A and B of the wire may be vibrate ye on e clip-holders , H and H ' .
When A is excited , current of response xn the wire normally speaking , is from the unexcited B to the excited A. e s imu a e wire becomes zincoid .
Note that though the current of response is constant m direction , the galvanometer deflection in ( d ) will be opposite in direction to ( 6 ) .
In ( a ) is shown one of the two graduated circles by which the amp i u e o vibration is measured , the internal resistance of the cell and the variation of that resistance by the addition of chemical reagents being thereby render ^uite negligible .
Ordinarily I use tap-water as the electrolyte .
e responses obtained with tap-water are practically the same as t ose obtained with distilled water .
Zinc wires in ZnS04 solution give responses similar in character to those given by , for example , Pt or n in water .
Character and Intensity of Response dependent on Molecular Condition .
The following experiments show how intimately the response phenomena is connected with the molecular condition of the acted wire:\#151 ; Effect of Annealing.\#151 ; The following photographic record , fig. 6 , shows the equal and opposite responses in A and B wires to a succession of uniform stimuli .
Hot water was now substituted for the cold water ( too high a temperature temporarily reduces the response ) ; the cell Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 21 was then allowed to cool to its old temperature , when a second series of responses were taken , the stimulus intensity being the same a* before .
It will be seen how the responses are enhanced by annealing Fia .
6.\#151 ; Series of responses , to uniform stimuli , of both A and B wires , before and after annealing .
Effect of Previous Vibration.\#151 ; The increased sensitiveness conferred by previous vibration has already been referred to before .
I give below a record ( fig. 7 ) obtained with platinum ( I have obtained similar Fig. 7 .
Photographic record showing the effect of continuous stimulation in enhancing response ( Pt ) .
Each curve shows response ( followed by recovery ) , the stimulus being kept constant throughout .
The series of responses ( enhanced to series ( c ) after continuous vibration ( ) .
records with other metals ) , which clearly shows how the response is enhanced after preliminary vibration .
Sometimes the wire gets into a very sluggish condition , when the response almost disappears ; in other words , owing to some molecular modification , responsiveness is reduced from the normal positive value ( by positive is meant that the acted wire becomes zinc-like or is zincoid ) to zero .
In these cases annealing or preliminary vibration are usually effective in transforming the sensitiveness from zero to a positive value .
Before After ( oj ( b\gt ; ( c\gt ; 1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
2\lt ; S5 Abnormal Response .
But the modification of which I have spoken does not stop short of mere abolition of responsive power , but sometimes proceeds further , and actually reverses the sign of response the excited wire becoming cuproid .
This abnormal effect is sometimes found even in fresh unannealed wires , when feeble vibrations ( of amplitude of 5 ' or less ) may give rise to a negative response , but vibration of stronger intensity gives rise to the usual positive response .
At other times the molecular modification is more pronounced , and there is a persistent reversal of response .
' .
, , But even in such cases long-continued vibration transforms the abnormal negative to the normal positive .
I give below photographic records which exhibit this .
In fig. 8 , a , the transformation took place during continued vibration .
To detect the point of transformation , I experimented with a platinum cell which exhibited the abnormal effect , and took a long series of records of responses to uniform vibrations acting at intervals of a minute .
In the record ( fig. 8 , / 3 ) I have been able to catch the point or rather points of transition .
Ua .
r/ 3 ) ( a ) \lt ; b ) ( CO Fig. 8.\#151 ; ( a ) Abnormal negative ( downward ) response ( a ) converted into normal positive ( upward ) response ( c ) after continued vibration ( i ) ( tin ) .
( / 3 ) Shows points of transition from the abnormal negative to the normal positive ( platinum ) .
Thus we may distinguish the following typical cases .
Beginning with the case of extreme molecular modification , we have ( 1 ) a condition which gives rise to negative response ; after continued vibration the negative becomes less negative , and ultimately becomes converted into positive : ( 2 ) an irresponsive or neutral condition ; vibration or annealing transforms it into positive : ( 3 ) a sluggish , feebly positive , \#166 ; becoming more and more positive after continued vibration : ( 4 ) a Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive TVave [ May 21 1 steady and permanent condition , when the responses are uniform : and lastly ( 5 ) when vibration is continued for too long a time , the positive tends to become less positive , the responses decline\#151 ; a state of things which we designate as fatigue .
Increased Electromotive Variation with increased Intensity of Stimulus .
When the intensity of stimulus is increased by increasing the amplitude of vibration , the electric response is enhanced .
The following is a pair of records ( fig. 9 ) for increasing amplitudes from 5 ' to 40 ' , and decreasing amplitudes from 40 ' to 5 ' .
The vibrations are imparted at intervals of 1 minute .
It will be noticed how the response is enhanced with increasing stimulus .
( a ) ( b ) 5 ' 70 ' / 5 ' 20 ' 26 ' 30'35 ' 40 ' 40 ' 36 ' 25 ' 20 ' / 5 ' 10 ' 5 ' Fin .
9.\#151 ; Photographic records of response curves , ( a ) from 5 ' to 40 ' , ( 5 ) 40 ' to 5 ' .
The vertical line = 0T volt .
Table I.\#151 ; Showing the Increasing Electromotive Effect due to Increasing Amplitude of Vibration .
Vibration , amplitude .
Deflection .
23 dns .
* 0*1 volt .
\#166 ; ' Ascending .
Descending .
5 ' 5 *5 5 10 13 12 20 | 25*5 26 A 25 1 88 32 f 30 * 39 89 1 35 43 43 40 47 48 1902 ] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
28 ^ It will also be noticed that whereas recovery is complete in 1 minute when the vibration amplitude is small , it is not quite complete within that time when the vibration amplitude is large .
Greater strain prolongs the period of recovery .
Owing to want of complete recovery , \#166 ; the base line is tilted slightly upwards .
This slight displacement does not materially affect the results , provided the shifting is slight .
From other records taken through a greater range of stimulation , it appears that in a curve obtained with electromotive variations as ordinates 'ind amplitudes of vibrations as abscissae , the first part of the curve is , generally speaking , slightly convex to the abscissa ( the convexity is pronounced when feeble stimulation gives negative response ) , it is then straight in the middle and concave in the last part .
A limiting deflection Is approached with high amplitude of vibration .
The shape of the curve is modified by the molecular condition of the wire .
Maximum Effect .
If instead of a single vibration of a given amplitude we superpose a rapidly succeeding series , the individual effects are added up and a maximum deflection is produced which remains practically constant as long as the vibration is maintained .
( A single ineffective stimulus may thus become effective by the additive effect of several .
) Too long-continued vibration may cause fatigue , but during half a minute or so , the maximum effect is very definite ( in tin ) .
For a definite amplitude of vibration there is a definite maximum , which increases with the amplitude .
For example , a single vibration of 5 ' gave a deflection of 35 divisions , the same when continued at the rate of four times per second gave a maximum deflection of eighteen divisions .
Again , with the same wire , a single vibration of 10 ' gave a deflection of 4'5 divisions , but continued vibration gave the definite maximum of 37-5 divisions .
I give below a curve ( fig. 10 ) which shows the maximum effect for different amplitudes of vibration .
Hysteresis.\#151 ; Allusion has already been made as to the increased sensitiveness conferred by preliminary vibration .
Being desirous of finding out in what manner this is brought about , I took a series of observations for an entire cycle , that is to say , a series of observations were taken for maximum effects , starting from 10 ' and ending in 100 ' , and backward from 100 ' to 10 ' .
Effect of hysteresis is very clearly seen ( fig. 10 , A ) ; there is a considerable divergence between the forward and return curves , the return curve being higher .
On repeating the cycle several times , the divergence is found to be very much reduced , the wire on the whole is found to assume a more constant sensitiveness .
In this steady condition , generally speaking , the sensitiveness for smaller amplitude of vibration is found to be greater than at the very beginning , but the reverse is the case for stronger intensity of vibration .
288 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 9j Effect of Annealing.\#151 ; I repeated the experiment with the same wire after pouring hot water and allowing it to cool to the old temperature ' It will be seen from the cyclic curve ( fig. 10 , B ) , ( 1 ) that the sensitiveness has become very much enhanced ; ( 2 ) that there is relatively less divergence between the forward and return curves .
Even this divergence practically disappeared at the third cycle , when the forward and backward curves coincided ( fig. 10 , C ) .
The above results show in what 1 ?
IQ- .
10 .
Cyclic curves for maximum effects due to increasing and decreasing amplitude of vibration .
A , fresh wire ; B , after annealing ; C , the same after three cycles .
Abscissa represents the amplitude of vibration ; the ordinate represents the corresponding electromotive variation .
manner the excitability of the wire is enhanced by purely physical means .
It is very curious to notice that the substitution of NaoCOs solution as electrolyte produces results very similar to that produced by annealing ; that is to say , not only is there a great enhancement of sensitiveness , but there is also a reduction of hysteresis .
Another curious point is that , whereas with ordinary fresh wire the addition of Na2C03 greatly enhances the sensitiveness , after the wire has been annealed there is comparatively little further increase of sensitiveness due to the addition of the reagent .
1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
289 Effect of Chemical Reagents .
I shall now give photographic records of a few typical cases which will graphically illustrate the influence of chemical reagents .
The mode of procedure is as follows .
The cell is filled with water , and photographic records are taken of responses to single vibrations of constant amplitude , applied to one of the two wires at intervals of 1 minute .
The responses will be found uniform .
Chemical reagent is now added , and similar vibrations applied as before .
The responses will exhibit either an increase or diminution , depending on the exciting or depressing power of the reagent .
It is also quite easy to obtain duplicated results by alternately vibrating the A and B wires .
Uniform responses , alternately positive or negative , will be first obtained ; after the addition of reagent both will exhibit either an increase or a diminution .
As has been said before a very high external resistance , varying from 1 to 5 megohms , is interposed in the external circuit , the slight variation of internal resistance of the cell due to the addition of the reagent being then quite negligible compared with the total resistance of the circuit .
That there is no appreciable variation in the total resistance can be independently verified by applying a known electromotive force before and after the addition of the reagent , when the resulting deflection will be found to be the same in the two cases .
The responsive deflections are thus simply proportional to the electromotive variations produced .
Chemical Excitants.\#151 ; The following record ( fig. 11 ) exhibits the Before I 'm .
11.\#151 ; Enhanced response by the action of Na2C03 solution on platinum .
The intensity of stimulus is kept constant throughout .
The curves to the left.show the responses before , and those to the right after , the application of NajCOa .
VOL. LXX .
x After Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave [ May 21 increased response due to the action of Na2C03 on Pt. Another record shows an exactly similar effect on tin .
The record of effect was taken 2 minutes after the application .
Other records taken immediately after , show that the enhanced responsiveness takes place gradually with time .
( See also fig. 7 , and compare the general similarity between the enhancement of response produced by preliminary vibration and by the action of Na2C03 .
) Depressants.\#151 ; Other reagents , like KBr ( 10 per cent. ) , produce a depression in the response .
There are again others which abolish the response almost completely , for example , 3 per cent. KHO solution ( fig. 12 , C ) .
One of the most effective reagents which abolishes the response is oxalic acid .
The depressing effect of this reagent is so great that a strength of 1 part in 10,000 is often sufficient to produce an abolition of response.* Opposite Effects of Varying Strengths of The most curious effect is that exhibited by some reagents when the strength of solution is varied .
This is clearly seen in the following record ( fig. 12 ) , in which ( a ) ( b ) ( c ) 12 .
Records showing the opposite effects of weak and strong solutions .
( a ) Normal response ; ( 5 ) increased response due to addition of 0 3 per cent. KHO ; ( c ) abolition of response by 3 per cent. KHO .
The trace ( c ) should have been engraved merely as a thick trace .
( a ) gives the normal response in water .
KHO solution was now added so as to make the strength 3 parts in a thousand and ( shows the * The various phenomena connected with the response in inorganic substances\#151 ; the negative variation\#151 ; the relation between stimulus and response\#151 ; the increased response after continuous stimulation\#151 ; the abnormal response converted into normal after long-continue.d stimulation\#151 ; the diphasic variation\#151 ; the increase of response by stimulants , decrease by depressors , and abolition by " poisons , " so-called\#151 ; all these are curiously like the various response phenomena in living tissues .
A complete account of the mutual relation between the two classes of phenomena will be found in a work to be shortly published , " On the Response in the Living and Non-living " ( Messrs. Longmans ) .
1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
291 enhancement of response thereby produced .
A further quantity of KHO was now added so as to increase the strength to 3 parts in a hundred .
This caused ( c ) a complete abolition of response .
( Refer to 6gI shal/ now briefly mention some of the interesting points in connection with the action of chemical reagents .
^ ( 1 .
) The effect of reagent is not only to increase or diminish the height of response , but also to modify the time relations .
By the action of some the quickness with which the maximum effect is reached is enhanced , others produce a prolongation of the period of recovery .
Curious effects of this m producing diphasic variation have already been mentioned .
( 2 .
) In a sensitive annealed wire the further enhancement of response by Na2C03 is not so great as in a fresh wire .
The effect produced by a reagent is thus seen to depend to some extent on the previous condition of the wire .
( 3 .
) A certain time is required for the full development of this effect .
Wit some the maximum effect takes place almost instantaneously , whi e with others it takes place gradually .
Again , the effect may with some reach a maximum , after which there is a slight decline .
The aftereffect of some reagents is transitory while that of others is very persistent .
It is difficult to say how much of this modification of responsiveness by various reagents is due to " physical and how much to ehemi cal " cause .
It has been shown that the responsive power does not depend on the chemical activity of the substance .
Tin is moie responsive than zinc .
Pt in distilled water shows response .
Strong acids and alkalies abolish response , but very dilute KHO enhances response .
Oxalic acid , even in minute quantities , abolishes it .
Neutral Na2C03 enhances it , but dilute NaCl produces no change in the normal response .
The responses of the same wire under different physical modifications are different , and under certain molecular modification the sign of response is even reversed .
But continued vibration makes the response normal .
Again , the enhancement of response produced by Na2C03 can be closely imitated by the effect of continued vibration .
The stimulating effect of this reagent gradually attains a maximum .
The after-effects of some chemical reagents persist even after all traces have been removed .
For example , in a certain experiment the A and B wires gave each a response of 23-5 divisions .
The wires were lifted from the cell , and the A wire touched with dilute oxalic acid .
It was then rubbed under tap-water with a piece of cloth , so as to remove all traces of the acid .
On replacing the wire on the cell , the responsii e-ness of the untouched B was found unchanged , but that of A had undergone an abolition .
The depressing action is often so peisistent and deep that I have on many occasions failed to revive the response even after the surface layers had been removed by rubbing the wire x 2 292 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electromotive Wave .
[ May 21 with emery-paper .
The wire so treated may , after a long time , exhibit partial recovery of its responsive power .
The facts described above seem to show that the enhancement or depression of response may , at least to a considerable extent , be due to the increase or diminution of molecular mobility conferred by the chemical reagents .
With a given stimulus , the height of response and the form of the response curve will be determined by the element of molecular friction .
In connection with this , it is instructive to obtain records of the vibrations of a torsional pendulum , the friction of which may be gradually increased by immersing the pendulum more or less in a viscous fluid or sand .
The various types of response-curves in metals are found to be very similar to those thus obtained .
Of these I give an interesting example .
With moderate friction the successive curves obtained with the pendulum are like those given in the left of fig. 13 ( a ) .
With increased friction the height of the curve is diminished , the maximum is reached later , and the recovery is prolonged ( like the curve in the right of fig. 13 ( a ) ) .
With still greater friction the recovery is arrested .
( \#171 ; ) .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Photographic records showing the effect of " molecular arrest .
" The two curves to the left of each set show the normal response ; curve to the right in ( a ) shows partial and in ( b ) complete arrest , produced by the reagent .
It would appear as if the reagents which abolish response in metals produce a similar molecular arrest .
The following photographic records seem to lend support to this view .
If the oxalic acid be applied in large quantities , the abolition of response is complete ; but 1902 .
] accompanying Mechanical Disturbance in Metals .
293 in carefully applying just the proper amount , I find that the stimulus evokes a responsive electric variation which is less than the normal , and the period of recovery is very much prolonged from the normal 1 minute before to 5 minutes after the application of the reagent ( fie 13 ( a ) ) .
In the next record ( fig. 13 ( \amp ; ) ) the arrest is more pronounced , i.e. , there is now no recovery .
Note also that the maximum is attained much later .
Stimuli applied after the arrest produce no effect , as if the molecular mechanism became locked up .
Pdsumi .
1 Molecular disturbance produced by mechanical stimulus gives rise to an electrical disturbance .
In the majority of cases , under normal conditions , the responsive electrical current in a wire is from the less to the more disturbed .
, , , / oV : .
\#166 ; 2 .
Response may be obtained by ( 1 ) method of block , ( 2 ) y methods of negative or positive variation . .
3 .
The electromotive variation disappears on the cessation ot dis^tlirl)3\#187 ; IIC6 .
4 .
The intensity of the electrical variation produced by a given disturbance is modified by the molecular condition of the wire .
Annealing , or previous continued vibration , enhances the electric 5 .
The abnormal response due to molecular modification is transformed into normal by continued vibration .
^ 6 .
The intensity of electromotive variation is increased with increasing intensity of stimulation .
' _ , 7 .
In a curve\#151 ; the ordinates representing the electrical effects , ana the abscissae the amplitudes of vibration\#151 ; the first part is slightly convex to the abscissa , the second is approximately straight , and the third concave .
With increasing stimulation there is a tendency for t e electrical variation to reach a limit .
^ " , 8 .
A maximum electrical effect is produced by continuous vibration , which is definite for a given amplitude of vibration .
A curve showing the relation between the maximum effect and the amplitude of vibra tion exhibits the same characteristics as in the last case .
9 .
Hysteresis is exhibited in cyclic curves .
The forward and return .
curves tend to coincide after several cycles .
Previous annealing reduces hysteresis , and after one or two cycles the wire assumes a con stant condition of sensibility .
, 10 .
Chemical reagents may profoundly modify the electric excitability .
Some increase the excitability .
Others depress or even abolish the excitability .
The after-effects are sometimes very persistent .
11 .
The effect of weak solution is sometimes the opposite to that of strong solution .
Prof. A. Gray and Mr. A. Wood .
Effect of a [ May 1 12 .
By touching different points of the wire with different reagents , the excitability of these portions are rendered unequal .
Hence a resultant electromotive variation may be obtained by vibrating the wire as a whole .
The current in the wire is from the less to the more excitable .
13 .
By this method , invisible traces of physico-chemical change in a wire may be detected .
14 .
Chemical reagents not only change the excitability but the quickness of response .
Two points having two different rates of excitation will thus , under proper conditions , give rise to diphasic effects .
I take this opportunity to thank the Managers of the Royal Institution for the facilities offered me to carry on the investigation at the Davy-Faraday Laboratory .
" On the Effect of a Longitudinal Magnetic Field on the Internal Viscosity of Wires of Nickel and Iron , as shown by Change of the Rate of Subsidence of Torsional Oscillations .
" By Professor Andrew Gray , F.R.S. , and Alexander Wood , B.Sc. , Houldsworth Research Student in the University of Glasgow .
Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read-May 15 , 1902 .
We can obtain information as to the nature of the magnetisation of magnetisable bodies only by testing the various hypotheses with reference to effects which it seems likely should , under these hypotheses , be produced on the physical properties of the substance .
Thus , for example , the internal friction of the different parts of a solid must depend upon the size and mode of arrangement of these parts , and any alteration in their dimensions or relative arrangement ought in general to produce some change in the amount of the internal friction .
Magnetisation of iron and other substances has with great probability been supposed to consist in a rearrangement and general alignment of the particles of the substance , already themselves elementary magnets , but so arranged in the unmagnetised metal as to be unproductive of any external magnetic field .
It is not unusual to suppose that this unmagnetised state is one of what we may call complete absence of arrangement , and it is sometimes so represented in text-books on the subject of magnetism , where pictures are given of a perfectly confused distribution of elementary magnets , so completely mixed up as to have no preponderating magnetic moment in any one direction .
Any such distribution , it is clear at once from the most elementary considerations , is impossible , as a large majority of the elementary magnets would otherwise have to remain in stable equilibrium in

