162 C. G. Williams and W. H. Waters .
[ May 12 , May 12 , 1881 .
GENERAL STRACHEY , R.E. , C.S.I. , Y.P. , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Pursuant to notice Gabriel Auguste Daubree , Jean Charles Marignac , Carl Nageli , and Carl Weierstrass were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Physiological Action of Lutidine .
" ByC .
GREViLLE Williams , F.R.S. , and W. H. Waters , B.A. , Demonstrator in the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
Received April 23 , 1881 .
In studying the physiological action of / 3 lutidine the greater number of our experiments were made upon the frog , and more particularly related to the action of this substance upon the heart and central nervous system ; our other experiments upon the different organs being for the better interpretation of the action upon these two .
Heart .
In all cases we first destroyed the brain and spinal cord of the frog by pithing , and with the smallest possible loss of blood .
Hence none of the results obtained could be due to the central nervous system .
The experiments were made upon the heart to study the effect of the / 3 lutidine with regard to its\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Tonicity ; ( 2 .
) Time of beat ; ( 3 .
) Nerve supply .
It may be stated at once , that the pure alkaloid applied to the surface of the heart causes that organ at once to shrink up , turn pale , and cease to beat .
At times it was found possible to restore these beats by washing with normal saline solution ( O'75 per cent , sodium chloride ) , but in no case did they ever reach their former activity .
( 1 .
) Tonicity of the Heart.\#151 ; We made use of several methods during our experiments to ascertain the effect of this poison upon the heart 's tonicity .
.163 1881 ] On the Physiological Action of ( 3 Lutidine .
The three chief ones were ( a. ) Moist chamber and lever ; ( / 3 .
) Roy 's apparatus ; ( cj ) Gaskell 's method of the excised heart .
( a. ) Moist Chamber and Lever.\#151 ; In this method the frog had just sufficient of its skin and sternal cartilage removed to expose the apex of the heart ; a carefully balanced lever ( of the first kind ) had attached to one end of it , by a horizontal pivot , a light needle , which , by means of a small piece of cork , just rested upon the apex of the heart .
The other end of the lever carried a fine piece of aluminium to mark the beats upon the smoked surface of a revolving cylinder .
Another piece of aluminium recorded the abscissa line from which variations in the height of the curve of ventricular beats could be recorded .
A glass shade , having a slit to allow the end of the lever to protrude and work upon the drum , was then placed over the animal , and the air inside kept moist with damp blotting-paper .
From the arrangement of the apparatus it is evident that at each ventricular systole the marker would fall , and at each diastole rise ; any increase in the tonicity of the heart being indicated by the tracing approaching the abscissa line .
A tracing of the heart 's normal beat was in all cases first taken , and then various quantities of various strengths of ( 3 lutidine were injected into different parts of the body , from a drop or two of 2 per cent , solution in the lymph spaces near the heart , to 0 2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent , in the lower part of the abdominal cavity .
In all cases there was a very evident lowering of the lever 's marking point and a decrease in the size of the beats , clearly showing that the heart had experienced a distinct increase in its tonicity .
In all cases it became much paler .
No. I is a characteristic series of tracings showing the alterations in the ventricular beats .
Of these ( 1 ) is that made by the normal heart , while 2 , 3 , and 4 , were taken at intervals of one , three , and six minutes after the injection of 0*2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent. ( 3 lutidine into the abdominal cavity .
The increase m tonicity and slowing of the beat are most evident .
These tracings should be read from right to left , a a being the abscissa line .
( / 3 .
) Roy 's Apparatus.\#151 ; In this apparatus the heart is tied upon a double canula , one limb of which is in connexion with a supply of fresh diluted sheep 's blood ( one part of defibrinated blood to three parts of 0*75 per cent , saline solution ) , kept at a constant height in a reservoir ; the other allowing the blood as it is pumped off by the heart to flow away .
The surface of the fluid in the reservoir being always at the same height , variations in the heart 's beat could in no way be due to variations in pressure of the fluid .
The heart tied to the canula is inserted into a closed chamber filled with oil .
By a par16i c- Williams and W. H. Waters .
[ May 12 tieular arrangement a piston , working in a cylindrical prolongation of this chamber , w.ll nse or fall on each systole or diastole It the ventricle .
A lever being attached to this piston indicates the con-dition ot the ventricle upon a moving surface .
From the construction it is evident that each systole of the ventricle is indicated by a rise in the lever , making evident its character After the character of the beats of a particular heart had been observed while the normal blood was passing , the blood was then sent through , containing from 01 per cent , to 0*4 per cent , of lutidine and the character of the tracings studied .
These were distinctly modified ; the heart still beat , but never relaxed during diastole to its full extent , in fact , showing a most decided increase in its tonicity .
The highest portions of the curve , indicating the condition of the ventricle during systole , showed that that condition was much prolonged , that portion of the curve being much rounder and longer .
The normal beat could be at once fully restored by repassing the saline blood be taken ^ \amp ; 861168 'f exPerimenfcs ' some time , could thus 11 a sPeciTnen of these tracings , and should be read from right to left .
I he beats on the extreme right are those of the ventricle before the application of the alkaloid .
When weaker solutions are used similar alterations occur , though naturally not so pronounced .
In one experiment , where no beats occurred , the lever rose distinctly on passage of the saline blood containing the ft lutidine , indicating \amp ; 11 increase in iHe tonicity of the ventricle .
( 7 .
) Gashell s Method.\#151 ; In these experiments a method due to Dr. Gaskell was used .
A piece of fine silk was tied to the apex of the ventricle , the heart cut out , and a slit made to open the ventricular cavity .
The heart was held just above the auricular ventricular groove by a screw-clamp , and the free end of the piece of fine silk attached to the ventricle tied to a lever , which had as its fulcrum the rod of the stand holding the screw-clamp .
This lever marked by means of a fine piece of aluminium upon the smoked surface of a revolving cylinder .
Each contraction of the ventricle was thus indicated upon the cylinder by a rise in the curve , any increase in the tone being similarly indicated .
The ventricle was first washed with normal solution to see its effect , as it was in this that the ft lutidine was always dissolved , it being necessary to determine that the effects produced were not due to the solvent .
This saline solution caused a slight fall of the lever , but immediately that containing the ft lutidine ( about OT per cent. ) was applied , a small drop being sufficient , there followed a distinct increase in the tonicity of the ventricle , the curve of beats being raised from the abscissa line , as would naturally occur with this method of work1881 .
] On the Physiological Action / 3 166 C ' Williams and W. H. Waters .
[ May 12 sofution116 'riginal beatS Were restored ashing with normal saline In III are two continuous parts of a tracing taken by this method and should he read from right to left .
From 1 the curve iHue t ' the beats of the ventricle after washing with a very small quantity of normal saline solution .
At 2 a very small drop of 02 per cent f lutldme was allowed to fall on the ventricle , and the changes in the beats , as above described , at once appear , the normal beats bein* again restored by washing with normal saline solution as at 3 In the particular experiment from which this tracing was taken the drum was slightly irregular , hence the apparent quickening of the beats after the second washing with the saline solution .
Measurement\#151 ; The ventricle was just exposed , and during the in tervals between the observations the opening was covered with damn blotting paper .
Even with this rough method it was found that the injection of 2'0 per cent , ft lutidine into various lymph spaces or into the cutaneous vein , caused a distinct decrease in the length of the ventricle , and this was always attended with a slight paleness .
From all these cases it cannot but be evident that the introduction of ft lutidine into the system , enabling it to reach the heart , causes a distinct increase in the tonicity of its ventricle .
The auricles seem to be affected but very little , and even continue to beat after the ventricle has stopped .
On Voluntary Muscle .
By a method somewhat similar to that of Dr. Gaskell , the effect of the alkaloid was tried upon ordinary striped muscular tissue .
A frog was pithed and placed on its ' belly in a moist chamber .
The tendo-achilles laid bare and tied by fine silk to a lever , the knee-joint being fixed .
On washing the muscle with 075 per cent , saline solution , as was done to the ventricle , a similar fall of the lever occurred ; but on allowing a drop of 05 per cent , ft lutidine ( m normal saline ) to fall on it , a distinct rise followed .
Tracing IV illustrates the above , being the abscissa line ; any increase m the tonicity of the muscle will be indicated by an increase m the distance of the lever 's marker from this line .
The tracing should be read from right to left .
At ( 1 ) 075 per cent , saline solution was added , and after a short interval the drum allowed to move , a fall of the lever became evident .
At ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) a small drop of 0 o per cent , of the alkaloid was added , and a distinct rise followed ; the washing again with normal saline solution at ( 4 ) resulting in a f 8,11 .
( 2 .
) Time of Heart 's Beats.\#151 ; At times we found the results of an experiment undecided , but by far the greater number of them indicated a slight slowing after the addition of the alkaloid .
It appeared distinctly in the experiments made with strong solutions .
( 3 .
) Nerves of the Heart.\#151 ; In all experiments relating to the action 1(37 1881 .
] On the Physiological A. of / 3 of poisons on the heart one naturally turns to trying their effect upon the vagus Under ordinary conditions this nerve has the effect when slightly stimulated of slowing , when strongly stimulated of stopping ^The apparatus used was the moist chamber before described , with the addition of a pair of platinum electrodes connected with the secondary coil of a Du Bois Raymond 's induction apparatus he key for short-circuiting the secondary current carried a marker to make a tracing on the revolving cylinder , indicating the point of time at which the vagus was stimulated and the duration of the stimu us by a rise in the line traced on the drum .
To ensure the constant strength of the stimulus , we always allowed the Daniells ' cell to work for about half an hour before using the coil .
The frog was pithed , the heart and vagus laid bare with as little exposure of the surrounding parts as possible , the lever and moist chamber arranged , and a tracing taken of the normal ventricular beats .
The vagus was next stimulated with the secondary coil at various distances from the primary , till one was found at which the heart was slowed and another at which it was stopped .
Experiments were then made with different quantities of solutions of / 3 lutidine of various strengths , from 0*2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent , to 0-2 cub. centim. of 5 per cent. , which were injected into various parts of the body , the best results being obtained by injecting into the lower part of the abdominal cavity .
In all cases the alkaloid deprived the vagus of its power , when stimulated , to arrest the beat of the heart .
As an example , a frog was prepared and the vagus found to cause slowing of the heart 's beat when stimulated with the secondary at 14 5 , and stoppage at 14 and 135\#151 ; a long stoppage at the latter .
0'2 cub. centim. of 2 per cent , solution of ( 3 lutidine were injected into the abdominal cavity near the right leg ; after three minutes the vagus on stimulation had but very slight effect , and after six minutes no action .
From time to time the secondary was moved nearer and nearer the primary , but stimulation had little or no effect , and after twenty-five minutes the action was imperceptible even when the secondary coil was right over the primary .
Reflex Action .
Our next series of experiments were made to ascertain what effect this alkaloid would have upon reflex action .
The frogs used had their brains -destroyed , with as small a loss of blood as possible , by dividing the spinal cord at the junction of the first vertebra and passing a wire into the skull .
The animals were then left for some time to recover from the effects of the operation .
The stimulus used was a very weak solution of hydric sulphate , and the VOL. XXXII .
n C. G. Williams and W. H. Waters .
[ May 12 time elapsing between the placing of the foot in this stimulant and its withdrawal by the animal was measured by a metronome beating 120 to the minute and taken as the indication of the time required for reflex action .
The frog was worked upon either resting on its belly with its legs hanging down or suspended by its head .
In order that the results might not be thought due to fatigue , owing to the suspension of the animal , in the earlier experiments , another frog similarly pithed , was suspended , and its reflex time measured simultaneously with the one treated with the alkaloid .
These frogs suffered no change , therefore after the first experiments their use was discontinued .
After suspension of the animal its reflex action was tested for half an hour at intervals of five minutes , in order to get the length of its normal reflex time .
The alkaloid was then injected , sometimes pure , into the stomach , and at other times dilute into the dorsal lymphatic sac ; here the effect could be produced by 02 cub. centim. of 1 per cent , solution in ten minutes to a quarter of an hour .
The action of the / 3 lutidine was most distinct , the reflex time , after an interval , growing longer and longer at each stimulation , then the leg would be only just removed , and that feebly from the acid ; and , finally , after a time varying from a quarter to half hour the foot was incapable of being withdrawn though immersed in the acid for a minute or a minute and a half .
Decidedly , then , J3 lutidine destroys reflex action in the frog .
The disappearance of the reflex action might be attributed to the following causes:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) To the poison acting upon the heart , perhaps stopping its beat , and thus cutting off the blood supply to the spinal cord .
In all cases , however , the frog was dissected and the heart was invariably found beating .
( 2 .
) It might be due to its action on the nerves , thus preventing the conduction of impulses to the muscles of the legs , necessary to cause them to contract and withdraw the foot from the acid .
( 3 .
) It might be said to be due to an effect like that of urari , preventing the communication of an impulse from the nerve to the muscle , blocking their physiological communication .
That it was not due to either of these causes will be seen from the following experiment : A frog was very carefully pithed , the sciatic nerve on each side was exposed and a ligature tied round the whole of the left leg\#151 ; except the nerve .
The nerves on each side were each stimulated with such a feeble current as to cause only a slight twitching of the toes ( secondary coil at about 32 ) .
Far more / 3 lutidine than is necessary to produce the described effect upon reflex action was then injected into the dorsal lymphatic sac , at times as much as two or more drops of the pure alkaloid being used .
Although the experiment lasted in some cases over two hours , the feeble stimulus caused the same amount of movement in both feet as before .
1881 -J On the Physiological Action of ft 169 ( 4 ) The effect of the poison might also be thought due to its action upon the muscles themselves , causing them to lose their irritability and cease to respond to stimuli reaching them from the nerve .
The last experiments would go strongly against this , but to be perfectly sure we performed the following : A frog , whose brain had been destroyed , received urari up to a point at which no reflex action occurred , and no contraction of the leg muscles on stimulation of the sciatic nerve .
The animal was placed in a moist chamber , and by means of the pendulum myograph tracings were taken of the contractions of the gastrocnemius , caused by direct stimulation .
A number of these tracings of the muscular contraction was taken before application of the poison , and then from time to time / 3 lutidine was injected into the dorsal lymphatic sac , commencing withO'l cub. centim. of 10 per cent , solution , and finally using as much as two drops of the pure alkaloid ; but there was no alteration of a decided character in any of the curves , either upon the latent period , contraction , or relaxation .
It may be mentioned that after acting on frogs retaining their spinal cord with j3 lutidine , destruction of the spinal cord with a wire , causes little or no movement of the limbs , as is the case under ordinary conditions .
From all these results it cannot but be evident that the disappearance of reflex action is due alone to the effect of the poison on the nerve cells of the spinal cord .
Strychnine and [ 3 Lutidine.\#151 ; ' Such being the action of 3 lutidine upon the spinal cord , we were naturally led to ascertain whether it was antagonistic in its action to strychnine .
If a frog , whose brain has been destroyed , be treated with a small quantity of strychnine solution , the slightest stimulus is sufficient to throw the animal into strong tetanic convulsions .
Various experiments were tried ; as examples we will give the following:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) A frog whose reflex action was good ( the brain having been destroyed in the usual way ) had sufficient j3 lutidine solution given it , to cause this reflex action to disappear .
A drop of 0'5 per cent , strychnine was injected into its dorsal lymphatic sac , a quantity which injected into another frog similarly prepared brought on the strongest convulsions .
Still no effect was produced , neither did any change appear when another large drop was injected .
( 2 .
) As an example of another method , a frog ( whose brain had been destroyed ) was thrown into strong convulsions by the use of strychnine , then 0'5 cub. centim. of 10 per cent , / 3 lutidine were injected into the dorsal lymphatic sac , also a drop of the pure alkaloid ; in fifteen minutes the strychnine tetanus was passing off and in twenty-five minutes had quite gone .
The same effect happened with smaller quantities of the alkaloid .
170 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
Discussion of the Results [ May 12 ( 3 .
) Another , better , method was used .
Two frogs , whose brains had been destroyed as before , were taken , and into the dorsal lym .
phatic sac of each a small drop of 5 per cent , strychnine was injected .
A minute afterwards only 0-1 cub. centim. of 10 per cent. 0 lutidine was injected into one frog ( A ) , the other ( B ) remaining as before .
After fifteen minutes ( A ) gave no signs of strychnine tetanus , while ( B ) gave distinct signs .
After twenty minutes ( A ) gave only very faint reflex action ; but ( B ) , on being touched , went into strong tetanus .
After thirty minutes ( A ) gave no signs of reflex action , while ( B ) went into strong tetanic convulsions on simply touching the table .
These results lasted over an hour ; then into ( B ) 0T cub. centim. of 10 per cent. / 3 lutidine was injected , and in ten minutes the effect of the shychnine began to pass off , and in thirty minutes was quite gone , the frog not even giving signs of reflex action .
Again , in some experiments strychnine was injected into one frog ( prepared as before ) , and strychnine with / 3 lutidine into another .
After twenty-four hours the first went into strong tetanic convulsions on touching , but never the latter ; that of the former disappearing after the injection of the alkaloid .
From our experiments we hope we have made it clear that / 3 lutidine causes a distinct increase in the tonicity of both cardiac and voluntary muscular tissue , also a slowing in the rate of the heart 's beat , and that it arrests the inhibitory power of the vagus .
That by its action upon the nerve cells of the spinal cord , it , in the first place , lengthens the time of reflex action , and then arrests that function ; finally , that it is successfully antagonistic to strychnine in its action upon the spinal cord .
In conclusion , we feel much pleasure in acknowledging our grateful thanks to Dr. Michael Foster , both for his kind help and happy suggestions , which have been of great assistance to us in our investigations .
II .
" Discussion of the Results of some Experiments with Whirled Anemometers .
" By Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 26 , 1881 .
In the course of the year 1872 , Mr. R. H. Scott , F.R.S. , suggested to the Meteorological Committee the desirability of carrying out a series of experiments on anemometers of different .
patterns .
This suggestion was approved by the Committee , and in the course of same year a grant was obtained by Mr. Scott from the Government Grant administered by the Royal Society , for the purpose of defraying .the expenses of the investigation .
The experiments were not , however ,

