711 III .
" On the Oxidation of Glycol , and on some Salts of Glyoxylic Acid .
" By H. DEBUS , Ph. D. Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL .
Received March 16 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) If glycol be oxidized with nitric acid , according to Wurtz* , it is converted into glycolic and oxalic acids .
C21-10+0 = CH,1403 + 12 0 Glycol .
Glycolic acid .
Water .
C2 H 02 + 04 = C2 H2 04 + 2HI0t Glycol .
Oxalic acid .
Water .
As the formation of these acids from glycol is analogous to the production of acetic acid from ethylic alcohol , it may be assumed that the bibasic oxalic acid stands to the biatomic glycol in the same relation as the fatty acids do to their corresponding alcohols .
Alcohol is not converted at once into acetic acid , an intermediate substancealdehyde-being formed .
The formation of a similar body from glycol is highly probable .
If two or four atoms of hydrogen be removed from glycol , an aldehyde of the composition of acetic acid or of the formula C2 H2 02 may be produced .
Glyoxal , obtained by the oxidation of ethylic alcohol , has indeed the composition corresponding to the above formula and the characteristic properties of an aldehyde .
Nitric acid converts it rapidly into oxalic acid .
Consequently glycol , glyoxal , and oxalic acid bear a similar relation to each other as ethylic alcohol , aldehyde , and acetic do .
C,2 11 OC H4 O C0 H,4 O Alcohol .
Aldehyde .
Acetic acid .
C2 1 , 02 C2 2 02 C2 1-12 Glycol .
Glyoxai .
Oxalic acid .
Another connexion between glycol and glyoxal is that they both produce glycolic acid , the former by oxidation , and the latter by combi* Comp. Rend .
xliv .
1306 .
C---12 , H= , O= 16 .
712 nation with one atom of water .
I treated glycol , which was diluted with water , with fuming nitric acid at about 30 ?
C. , and evaporated the acid liquid , as soon as the action was completed , on the waterbath until it assumed the consistency of syrup * .
This residue was found to contain , as previously shown by Wurtz , oxalic and glycolic acids ; but I also found therein glyoxylic acid and a body which comported itself with some reagents like glyoxal .
Want of material , however , prevented its being identified with the latter .
Before I proceed to make some observations on these facts , I shall first mention a few salts of glyoxylic acid not yet described .
Glyoxylate of silver , CH AgO , + I0 , is obtained as a white crystalline powder when nitrate of silver is precipitated with glyoxylate of ammonia .
This salt is but slightly soluble in cold water , and is decomposed by light with great rapidity .
Glyoxylate of baryta , C2 HBaO3+ 2H2 O0 Diluted glyoxylic acid is digested at common temperatures with carbonate of baryta until the acid is completely neutralized , and the filtered solution evaporated in vacuo .
As soon as the liquid has arrived at a certain degree of concentration , small white crystals of glyoxylate of baryta begin to separate .
This compound is partially decomposed into oxalate of baryta and glycolic acid if it be heated to 120 ?
C. , or if the temperature of its watery solution be raised to the boilingpoint .
With nitrate of silver , acetate of lead , and lime-water , it comports itself like glyoxylate of lime .
Glyoxylate of zinc , C2 Zn2 03 + 2H2 0 , is produced as a white crystalline precipitate when a strong solution of glyoxylate of lime is precipitated with acetate of zinc .
This compound is slightly soluble in water , but is easily dissolved by acetic and hydrochloric acids and by caustic potash .
The two atoms of water cannot be removed without decomposing the salt .
Glyoxylate of ammonia , C2 1H ( NH4 ) 03 .
This compound was prepared by precipitating glyoxylate of lime with its equivalent quantity of oxalate of ammonia , and evaporating 713 the filtrate from the oxalate of lime over sulphuric acid in vacuo .
The glyoxylate of ammonia is obtained in small , prismatic and colourless crystals , which dissolve easily in water .
The concentrated solution turns yellow when it is boiled , or evaporated at 100 ?
C. It produces with nitrate of silver and acetate of lead crystalline precipitates at once , but with sulphate of copper only after the lapse of some time .
Solution of caustic potash , mixed with it , causes the evolution of ammonia even at common temperatures .
According to the composition of glyoxylate of ammonia , the formula of glyoxylic acid is C2 H , 0 ?
3* .
It is worthy of notice , that the other salts of this acid which have been examined , contain one or two atoms of water which cannot be expelled without decomposing the compound .
Glyoxal is oxidized , by treatment with dilute nitric acid , into oxalic acid , and as an intermediate substance glyoxylic acid is formed , C2 02 =2 Glyoxal C2 03 = Glyoxylic acid .
C2 12 04 = Oxalic acid .
Glyoxal has not been proved with certainty to be one of the products of the oxidation of glycol ; nevertheless its formation from this alcohol may be foreseen with great probability , as it stands to glyoxylic and oxalic acids , both of which are formed by the oxidation of glycol , as ethylic aldehyde does to acetic acid .
The relation of glyoxylic to oxalic acid is like that of sulphurous to sulphuric acid .
C2 11H 0 , SH2 03 Glyoxylic acid .
Sulphurous acid .
C2 H2 , 0 SH2 , 0 Oxalic acid .
Sulphuric acid .
Glyoxylic acid resembles in many respects formic acid .
Concentrated sulphuric acid separates from the salts of formic acid carbonic oxide , whilst it combines with the rest of the constituents , Glyoxylate of lime dissolves in an excess of sulphuric acid , and the solution evolves at a temperature of from 40 ?
to 50 ?
C. , without blackening , pure carbonic oxide .
At the end of the experiment , and when the 714 temperature of the liquid is raised , a little sulphurous acid makes its appearance .
Relying on Berthelot 's experiments , formic acid we can conceive to be formed by the addition of the molecule carbonyle to the type water .
In the same manner glyoxylic acid might be produced by adding oxalyle to one atom of water .
CO + , 0= CH2 02 Formic acid .
C202+ 12 0 112 03 Glyoxylic acid .
Since both acids are easily oxidized , the one to carbonic , and the other to oxalic acid , we may say that , with regard to composition , formic acid stands to carbonic acid in a similar relation as glyoxylic acid does to oxalic acid .
C 20 =H 202 C 02 +-11 , 0= C2 4 03 Formic acid .
Glyoxylic acid .
CO+ H2 02= CIH , + 03 C 0+12 02=C2 H2 04 Carbonic acid Oxalic acid .
plus water .
But with regard to other properties , these acids do not correspond to each other : thus formic acid is monobasic and carbonic acid bibasic , whilst both glyoxylic and oxalic acids are biatomic .
Further , the latter two are derived from the same alcohol , which is not the case with carbonic and formic acids .
Amongst the products of the oxidation of glycol occurs also glycolic acid , which is produced from glyoxal by the assimilation of water .
C2 2 02 +2 O=C2 14 03 Glyoxal .
Glycolic acid .
Some regard glycolic acid ( C2 H4 03 ) as a bibasic acid .
According to this view , it would stand to glycol as acetic acid does to common alcohol , C2 H O2 2 H , 0 Glycol .
Alcohol .
, H14 03 C,2 H11 0 Glycolic acid .
Acetic acid .
715 But with this view the capacity of saturation of glycolic acid does not agree .
For according to our present experience , if we adopt the formula C2 H4 03 , it evidently combines only with one atom of base .
Before we have discovered compounds represented by the general expression C2 H2 M2 03 , I think we are not justified to place glycolic acid in the same relation to glycol as we do acetic acid to common alcohol .
According to our present knowledge , this position must be assigned to oxalic acid .
We can represent to our minds the derivation of glycolic acid from acetic acid in the following manner .
If in acetic acid one atom of hydrogen be replaced by peroxide of hydrogen , we obtain a body which has the composition of glycolic acid .
C. H10O =acetic acid .
C2 1I3 ( HO ) 02=glycolic acid .
But , according to the following observations , this view appears not to be correct ; for glycolic acid can be formed from glycolide and water , and probably also again can be resolved into these two substances in the same way as lactid and water by their union produce lactic acid , and the decomposition of the latter by heat yields lactid again .
If , therefore , peroxide of hydrogen be contained in glycolic acid , it must be present in glycolide .
If monochlorinated acetate of potash be decomposed , according to Kekule , glycolic acid and glycolide are formed .
The formation of the latter precedes that of the glycolic acid ; but if the monochlorinated acetate of potash could be obtained anhydrous , no doubt only glycolide would result from its decomposition .
The monochlorinated acetate of potash can be represented as consisting of three parts , of potassium , of oxygen , and of chlorinated acetyle .
C , H , Cl0 .
K At a higher temperature chlorine and potassium form chloride of potassium .
After the removal of the chlorine , the chlorinated acetyle is converted into the biatomic radical C2 H12 0 , which unites with one atom of oxygen , and forms glycolide .
C , 1I } OC1 l 716 According to its formation , the glycolide cannot contain any peroxide of hydrogen , and consequently it appears that also glycolic acid cannot be considered as acetic acid wherein one atom of hydrogen has been replaced by peroxide of hydrogen .
I beg to conclude with an empirical derivation of several of the compoiunds mentioned from hydruret of ethyl .
C2 Il H , 2 , = Hydruret of ethyl , 01 H1 H1 0 =Aldehyde , 2 H2 00= Glyoxal and glycolideo C2 000 =Anhydrous oxalic acid , C2 H , H H , 2+0 = Alcohol .
C2 H2 12 00= Acetic acid .
C2 2H , 0 +0 Glyoxylic acid .
C20 00 +0 = Carbonic acid , C,2 H2 H 2+HH2 0=C2 H8 0 .
C , H2 20 +H -0=Glycol .
C2 H,2 00 +1 0= Glycolic acid .
C2 0 00 +H2 0=Oxalic acid , April 7 , 1859 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " On Colour-Blindness .
" By WILLIAM POLE , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 24 , 1859 .
This paper consists principally of a revised and condensed version of a former one by the same author , which was read to the Society on the 19th of June , 1856 , and of which an abstract is given in the Proceedings ' under that date ( vol. viii .
p.172 ) .
In the present communication there is added an account of numerous experiments subsequently made by the author with Professor Maxwell 's Colour-top .

