161 On the Microsporangia of the Pteridosperms .
By Robert Kidston , F.E.S. L. and E. , F.G.S. ( Received November 15 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The first point considered is the question of the identity of Lyginodendron Oldhamium and Sphenopteris Honinghausi , Brongt .
Although this seems to be generally accepted , it has not , as far as the author knows , ever been demonstrated and from continental botanists a clear proof of their identity may be justly demanded .
The form , nervation , mode of attachment of the sterile pinnules , the presence of spines on the pinnules and stems and the sclerenchymatous net-like bands in the outer cortex are shown to be similar in both , and further , that as a , petrifaction , Lyginodendron on the one hand , and as an impression , Sphen .
( Crossotheca ) on the other , each in their respective condition , are the only two plants occurring on the same horizon what each possess all these characters .
The structure of the microsporangia of Sphen .
( is then described in detail , of which a preliminary account has already been given.* This is followed by a description of the microsporangia of Crossotheca Hugliesiana , n. sp. , which possesses all the essential characters of the microsporangia of C.Honinghausi , differing only in its larger size and the limb of the fertile pinnules being cordate , not oval , as in C. The last part of the paper deals with the affinities of the Cycadojilices .
Beginning with the Upper Devonian , where the first satisfactory evidence of the occurrence of " ferns " or " fern-like " plants is found , the fructification of Archreopteris is discussed and the conclusion arrived at that it agrees much more with microsporangia than with true fern sporangia .
The " ferns " of the Culm are next considered , where the only evidence of " ferns " is found in the occurrence of a few sporangia with an annulus of more than one row of cells .
The presence of the Cycadojilices on this horizon is very conspicuous ; the Botryopteridem also occur if one is justified in regarding Zygoptcris as their petioles .
The annulate sporangia from this horizon are regarded as being more probably related to the Botryopterideccthan to the true ferns .
The " ferns " or " fern-like " plants of the Upper Carboniferous are next reviewed .
In the Lanarldanseries or lowest division of the Upper Carboniferous , which includes the Halifax hard bed\#151 ; it is pointed out , that though * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. B. 76 , p. 358 , 1905* 162 Some Observations on Welwitschia mirabilis , , f Cycadofilices , Pteridosperms and Botryopteroccur , there is no satisfactory evidence of the existence of a true fern on this horizon .
In the succeeding W\lt ; estphalianseries , true ferns possibly exist in such genera as Oligocarpia , Senfleribergia , and Kidstonia .
Also the are present in Asterothccaand some allies .
In the series and Upper Coal Measures of the continent , all these groups are probably present , but the Marattiacece assume here a very important place .
The conclusion is , therefore , come to that the Cycadofilices , which long-antedated the advent of true ferns , cannot have been derived from them but are themselves the oldest type of fern-like plant at present known .
In regard to the true ferns it seems probable that they may have been derived from the Botryopleridece .
Some Observations on Welwitschia mirabilis , By H. H. W. Pearson , M.A. , F.L.S. , " Harry Bolus " Professor of Botany in the South African College , Cape Town .
( Communicated by A. C. Seward , F.R.S. Received September 9 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The material examined was obtained by the author from plants of Welwitschia growing near the German military station at Haikamchab , on the south bank of the Swakop River , 31 miles north-east of the British station at Walfish Bay .
Owing to the native rising , it was impossible to carry out the intention of spending some weeks in the country , and keeping-plants under constant observation .
The results recorded are , therefore , based on the investigations of flowers collected during a hurried visit to the Welwitschia country .
The author deals with the habitat of the plants , and describes the climatal conditions under which they grow .
Evidence is adduced in support of the view that Welwitschia is partially , if not entirely , insect-pollinated , and that the processes of fertilisation and maturation of the seed seem to be effected much more rapidly than in other Gymnosperms .
Male Flotvers.\#151 ; The author supports Strasburger 's view that the male flowers are reduced forms of an originally hermaphrodite structure .
The development of microsporangia and microspores is described .
The characters .of the pollen-grain , in which three nuclei were observed before the dehiscence

