1882 .
] On Spectrum Photography .
June 15 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Mr. Gabriel Auguste Daubree ( Foreign Member ) , Dr. George Stewardson Brady , Dr. George Buchanan , Mr. Francis Darwin , Professor William Dittmar , Dr. Walter Holbrook Gaskell , Mr. William Davidson Niven , and Mr. Robert Henry Inglis Palgrave were admitted into the Society .
The President read a despatch from H.M. Consul-General at Florence , transmitted through the Foreign Office , giving an account of a commemoration in honour of the late Charles Darwin , held in the great hall of the Istituto di Studi Superiori .
A preliminary ( oral ) Statement of Results of observation of the total Eclipse of the Sun on May 17 , as seen in Egypt , was made by Mr. J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. ' ' Researches on Spectrum Photography in relation to New Methods of Quantitative Chemical Analysis .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , \amp ; c. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received May 19 , 1882 .
Preliminary Note .
( 1 .
) Since I perfected the instrument employed by me in investigating the molecular structure of organic compounds , I have been engaged in studying the spark spectra of elementary bodies with the object of applying my method of working to the purposes of technical chemical analysis .
Progress in the course of this research has proved it to be necessary to investigate all kinds of spectra de novo in the hitherto little explored ultra-violet region .
Some fourteen years ' practice in photography has convinced me that when a plate is properly exposed the development of the image is the simplest of all operations ; in order , therefore , to simplify spectroscopic work , I have carefully ascertained the time of exposure required to produce the most characteristic spectra under various YOL .
XXXIV .
G 82 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
[ June 15 , conditions , such as intensity of spark and conductivity , \amp ; c. , of the electrodes .
This , in the instrument I prefer to use , is generally a period of half a minute .
( " Journal of the Chem. Soc. , " vol. xli , p. 84 , 1882 .
) ( 2 .
) A long series of experiments has been made with the object of comparing the spectra of various compounds in solution with those of the elements they contain .
In the process of photographing the spectra of solutions it is desirable to eliminate all foreign lines as far as possible , hence the selection of suitable electrodes was a matter of the first consideration , the method of working being almost entirely dependent on this for its accuracy and value .
No method like that of Bunsen is convenient , in which charcoal points are employed in conjunction with a spark from a coil without a condenser , by reason of the prolonged exposure rendered necessary , the intensity of the emitted rays being small .
Electrodes of gold , platinum , iridium , and other metals were used , and those of gold proved decidedly the best , as containing the fewest lines and the metal being a most excellent conductor of electricity .
All these metals are , however , useless compared with electrodes of graphite .
The spectrum of graphite consists of eleven or twelve insignificant lines due to the carbon , and about sixty-six lines and bands due to air .
The air-lines are easily recognised from their " physiognomy , " as M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran calls it , or .
as I have elsewhere described this peculiarity in relation to spectrum photographs , their " graphic character .
" In no case with the intensity of spark which I employ and the normal exposure have I ever been troubled with the presence of such impurities as may be contained in points of good Siberian or Ceylon graphite .
Such points have been submitted .to the continuous action of a condensed spark for something like ten hours at a time , the same solution being used and the electrodes unaltered .
It is usual to take fresh electrodes for each solution .
( 3 .
) In comparing the spectra of solutions of salts with those of metallic electrodes , it was found that in almost all cases the lines of metals were exactly reproduced from the solution , the graphic character being retained except in regard to their continuity .
Discontin nous but long lines , or in certain cases even short lines , appear as long lines in the spectra taken from solutions .
The peculiarities of the spectra of magnesium , of cadmium , and iron , were exactly reproduced , line for line , from the chlorides .
An alteration was noticed in the spectrum of graphite , the short lines became long , that is to say , discontinuous became continuous lines , when the electrodes were wetted with water or acids .
An exceptional instance of variation in a spectrum was seen in that of zinc .
The pure metal exhibits a series of highly characteristic exi J 1882.J On Spectrum Photography .
cessively short lines or dots , which are totally absent from the photographs of solutions of zinc made from the same metal .
Certain discontinuous lines in the spectrum of iridium become continuous when moistened with calcic chloride solution .
It has been remarked by me elsewhere ( Joe .
cit.)that the more volatile , and I may now add , the more unoxidisable a metal , the more continuous are its lines .
The compounds in solution are more volatile than the metals , and hence the greater continuity in the lines .
In the case of graphite it is doubtless a volatile carbon compound , either carbon dioxide or a hydrocarbon , which is formed by the heat of the spark when the points are moistened with water .
In the case of iridium it is difficult to suppose that the calcic chloride solution forms a chloride by the simple action of heat on such a refractory metal ; but this is the only explanation that will account for the greater continuity of the lines .
Insoluble compounds give no spectra when mixed with water or glycerine and exposed to the spark .
The non-metallic constituents of salts do not yield any marked series of lines , and therefore do not obscure the metallic spectra .
The spectrum of aluminium as obtained from perfectly pure solutions is free from a group of short or discontinuous lines seen in my published photographs of spectra .
By prolonged exposure , as I have elsewhere shown , these lines have been proved to be due to iron .
The spectrum of aluminium is thus proved to be a very simple one .
In all these spectra the rays lying between 4500 and 2000 on the scale of wave-lengths are completely focussed on one plate , and the relative intensities of the lines exhibit the relative intensities of the rays .
Any modification in the relative intensity of a line or in its length is accurately registered on the sensitive plate .
As many as fifteen different spectra have been photographed on one plate , and developed by one immersion in the developing solution .
It has been proved experimentally that accidental alterations in the period of normal exposure , which are not very noticeable , do not affect the spectra .
Any irregularities such as may be unavoidable in the passage of the spark do not alter the normal densities of the images of the various rays .
The development of the photographs is completed in about thirty seconds .
These points are of vital importance in placing this method of working on such a basis that it may be employed in quantitative methods of chemical analysis , for if the intensity of the rays be so great that the period of exposure is rendered much shorter , difficulties would arise in obtaining photographs with neither more nor less than the requisite density .
And , again , were the exposure much prolonged the method would become somewhat tedious , or , at least , it would be impaired in value .
( 4 .
) Of all methods likely to yield results of practical importance in estimating the relative proportions of the constituents of either an G 2 84 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
[ June 15* alloy or a mineral , only those have recommended themselves to mo which depend npon the use of solutions ; and for the reason that most alloys are not homogeneous , and the portion of a metallic electrode exposed to the action of the spark is volatilised from one point , and is too minute in quantity to represent the composition of the mass .
Now , the composition of a solution represents in every part the composition of the entire mass dissolved ; it is , therefore , quite unimportant how small a fraction of it is used for the purpose of obtaining the spectrum of its constituents .
It is a remarkable fact that at the present time we know little or nothing of the sensitiveness of the spectrum reaction under various conditions , notwithstanding that such knowledge is absolutely necessary for the purpose of giving stability to numerous theories and arguments which are based on spectrum observations .
I have made some experiments in this direction by determining the extent of dilution which serves to modify in various ways the spectra of solutions of metallic salts , and that which finally causes the extinction of the most persistent line or lines .
The sensitiveness of the reaction varies with different elements and with the period of exposure , the intensity of the spark , and other conditions ; I have no difficulty whatever , when working in the manner here indicated , in recognising spectra yielded by solutions which contain no more than ToVoth of a per cent , of calcium , silver , copper , and i o gooth of a per cent , of manganese .
It is necessary , however , for me to withhold a full account of my experiments until I have determined the wave-lengths of the lines in the various Spectra under observation , for it is quite impossible to describe the changes in the spectra without reference to accurate measurements of the metallic lines .
For some time past Mr. W. E. Adeney has been working in conjunction with me at these determinations , and I hope with as little delay as possible to have the honour of submitting to the Royal Society all details here omitted , both with regard to these new methods of analysis , and the wavelength determinations .
II .
" On the Reversal of the Metallic Lines as seen in Overexposed Photographs of Spectra .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , \amp ; c. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received May 19 , 1882 .
In preparing series of photographs of metallic elements when their spectra are obtained by the action of a condensed spark passed between metallic electrodes , I have been very careful to ascertain the exact period of exposure of the sensitive plate to the rays , which will bring

