II .
" On the Optical Characters of certain Alkaloids associated with Quinine , and of the Sulphates of their Iodo-conpounds .
" By WILLIAM BIRD HERAPATH , M.D. , in a Letter to Professor SToKES , Sec. R.S. Communicated by Professor STOKES .
Received January 8 , 1857 .
You will probably recollect that I sent you some time since a small portion of an alkaloid , which at that time was called quinidin in Germany , but it has since been distinguished from it and named cinchonidin .
You then examined it for epipolism or fluorescence , and you pronounced the opinion that it possessed this property only in a minor degree , and you imagined that this arose from the presence of a small per-centage of a-quinine .
I have since obtained , through the kindness of Mr. J. E. Howard , specimens of the perfectly pure alkaloids quinidin and cinchonidin , and find that quinidin , which I can now identify as the 3-quinine of Von Heijningen , possesses the phenomenon of fluorescence or epipolic dispersion as powerfully as a-quinine ; whilst cinchonidin , if perfectly pure , is devoid of it altogether ; and recent experiments have shown me that a small per-centage of quinidin was the cause of the epipolic dispersion found by you in the specimen of cinchonidin sent by me .
It may be as well to state that the cinchonidin tested by water of chlorine and ammonia gave no evidence of green tint , which it would have done if only -x~sdth part of either a-quinine or quinidin had been present , according to some recent experiments of my own .
I have also found that 1 gr. of pure quinine or quinidin in 35,000 of water will give an evident " epipolic " appearance ; whilst when diluted with 70,000 grs. of water we have still very evident appearances of " fluorescence " upon the perpendicular wall of the glass vessel exposed to the incident light ; whilst a blish milkiness of " internal dispersion " may be seen when I gr. of either alkaloid is diluted with 700,000 grs. or 10 gallons of distilled water , well acidulated in all these cases with sulphuric acid .
Some other interesting results have followed from these investigations .
When quinidin is dissolved in an excess of diluted sulphuric acid , and the solution mixed with about twice its bulk of spirit , and warmed to 130 ?
F. , and tincture of iodine then added in sufficient quantity , and subsequently set in repose , beautiful red acicular crystals are deposited ; these , upon recrystallization from rectified spirit , acquire an increased size , become beautiful quadrilateral prisms , leaving a deep garnet-red by transmitted light , and possessing a clear bluish-purple reflected tint ; they are optically doubly absorbent in a slight degree , and transmit a brownish-orange body colour when polarized perpendicular to axis .
The primary form appears to be a rhombic prism , and as far as my present analyses go , appears to possess centesimally the following composition : Iodine ... ... ... ... ... ... 39-665 Sulphuric acid ... ... ... ... 6-273 Carbon ... ... ... . .
32-890 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... .
3960 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... .
4400 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... 5-040 Water ... ... ... ... ... . .
8504 100 ' 712 The excess arises from the hydrogen twice calculated in water of crystallization .
These numbers agree very closely with the formula ( C35 1'9 N2 04 + I2 ) S03 HO + 5HO , and prove it to be the sulphate of iodo-quinidin , very analogous to the optical quinine compound , yet differing materially in its optical properties .
There is another alkaloid frequently associated with quinidin , which also crystallizes from spirit in the prismatic form like quinidin and cinchonidin , but is another example of epipolism or fluorescence .
Its iodo-sulphate is deep olive-green in its reflected tint , orangeyellow by transmitted light , and possessing in an eminent degree optically doubly absorbent powers , thin laminae being quite black , but still thinner ones give a bistre-brown " body-colour " when polarized perpendicular to axis .
This alkaloid was also furnished me by the kindness of Mr. Howard , but has not yet been sufficiently purified , or in the quantity necessary to give certain results .
It possesses one very peculiar property .
When dissolved in chloroform and evaporated spontaneously on glass , the gummy and uncrystalline residue , mounted in Canada balsam , at once shows a deep blue-green , epipolic , or fluorescent appearance .
Pure cinchonidin does not possess epipolic dispersion and does not become green by chlorine-water and ammonia ; and when it is dissolved in acetic acid or chloroform and the fluid is exposed on glass plates to spontaneous evaporation , beautiful crystals in circular .
spots or drus~e develope themselves , which under polarized light exhibit black crosses and white or coloured sectors .
These appearances are not exhibited by pure quinine or true quinidin ( d-quinine ) , both of which give a gummy , uncrystalline , and perfectly transparent residue .
Pure cinchonidin , thus optically and chemically distinguishable from either quinine or quinidin , is still further remarkable for producing with sulphuric acid and iodine an optical doubly absorbent compound of intense power , even equal to the sulphate of iodoquinine compound ; these crystals are very similar in form to my artificial tourmalines , and have long been mistaken by me for them ; even at present I can only distinguish them by the tints in reflected light and the complementary body-colour , viz. whilst sulphate of iodo-quinine gives a cantharidin-green reflected tint , and a pink , ruby-red , reddish-brown or black body-colour when polarized perpendicular to the axis , according to the thickness of the plate examined , the sulphate of iodo-cinchonidin is golden-green by reflected light , and gives a sky or indigo-blue or black " body-colour " when polarized perpendicular to the axis .
I have not yet made sufficient chemical analyses of this substance to enable me to decide on its formula , but I have obtained 39 307 per cent. iodine and 8'864 per cent. sulphuric acid , which sufficiently indicate a chemical difference in constitution from the sulphate of iodo-quinine , which , it may be remembered , contains 32'609 per cent. iodine and 10*61 per cent. sulphuric acid .
I hope soon to present these results in more detail when sufficient leisure is afforded me for the purpose.-W .
B. H.

