389 1882 ] On the Conservation of Solar Energy .
3 That the penetration of the hyphse of the Saprolegnia into the derma renders it at least possible that the disease may break out in a fresh-run salmon without re-infection . .
4 That the cause of the disease , the Saprolegnia , may flourish m any fresh water , in the absence of salmon , as a saprophyte upon dead insects and other animals .
5 .
That the chances of infection for a healthy fish entering a river , are prodigiously increased by the existence of diseased fish in that river , inasmuch as the bulk of Saprolegnia on a few diseased fish vastly exceeds that which would exist without them .
6 .
That , as in the case of the potato disease , the careful extirpation of every diseased individual is the treatment theoretically indicated ; though , in practice , it may not be worth while to adopt that treatment .
II " On the Conservation of Solar Energy .
' By C. William Siemens , D.C.L. , LL. D. .
F.R.S. , Mem. Inst. C.E. Received February 20 , 1881 .
The question of the maintenance of Solar Energy is one that has been looked upon with deep interest by astronomers and physicists from the time of La Place downward .
The amount of heat radiated from the sun has been approximately computed , by the aid of the pyrheliometer of Pouillet and by the acti-nometers of Herschel and others , at 18,000,000 of heat units from every square foot of his surface per hour , or , put popularly , as equal to the heat that would be produced by the perfect combustion every thirty-six hours of a mass of coal of specific gravity= 1*5 as great as that of our earth .
If the sun were surrounded by a solid sphere of a radius equal to the mean distance of the sun from the earth ( 95,000,000 of miles ) , the whole of this prodigious amount of heat would be intercepted ; but considering that the earth 's apparent diameter as seen from the sun is only seventeen seconds , the earth can intercept only the 2,250-millionth part .
Assuming that the other planetary bodies swell the intercepted heat by ten times this amount , there remains the important fact that -ffof the solar enerSJ iy radiated into space , and apparently lost to the solar system , and only 225000000 utilised .
Notwithstanding this enormous loss of heat , solar temperature has not diminished sensibly for centuries , if we neglect the periodic changes\#151 ; apparently connected with the appearance of sun-spots that have been observed by Lockyer and others , and the question forces itself Dr. C. W. Siemens .
[ Mar. 2 , upon us how this great loss can be sustained without producing an observable diminution of solar temperature even within a human lifetime .
Amongst the ingenious hypotheses intended to account for a continuance of solar heat is that of shrinkage , or gradual reduction of the sun 's volume suggested by Helmholtz .
It may , however , be urged against this theory that the heat so produced would be liberated throughout his mass , and would have to be brought to the surface by conduction , aided perhaps by convection ; but we know of no material of sufficient conductivity to transmit anything approaching the amount of heat lost by radiation .
Chemical action between the constituent parts of the sun has also been suggested ; but here again we are met by the difficulty that the products of such combination would ere this have accumulated on the surface , and would have formed a barrier against further action .
These difficulties led Sir William Thomson to the suggestion that the cause of maintenance of solar temperature might be found in the circumstance of meteorolites falling upon the sun , not from great distances in space , as had been suggested by Mayer and Waterston , but from narrow orbits which slowly contracted by resistance until at last the meteorolites became entangled in the sun 's atmosphere and fell in ; and he shows that each pound of matter so imparted would represent a large number of heat units without disturbing the planetary equilibrium .
But in considering more fully the enormous amount of planetary matter that would be required for the maintenance of the solar temperature , Sir William Thomson soon abandoned this hypothesis for that of simple transfer of heat from the interior of a fluid sun to the surface by means of convection currents , which latter hypothesis appears at the present time to be also supported by Professor Stokes and other leading physicists .
But if either of these hypotheses could be proved , we should only have the satisfaction of knowing that the solar waste of energy by dissipation into space was not dependent entirely upon loss of his sensible heat , but that his existence as a luminary would be prolonged by calling into requisition a limited , though may be large , store of energy in the form of separated matter .
The true solution of the problem will be furnished by a theory , according to which radiant energy which is now supposed to be dissipated into space and irrecoverably lost to our solar system , could be arrested , wholly or partly , and brought back in another form to the sun himself , there to continue the work of solar radiation .
Some years ago it occurred to me that such a solution of the solar problem might not lie beyond the bounds of possibility , and although I cannot claim intimate acquaintance with the intricacies of solar physics , I have watched its progress , and have engaged also in some 1882 1 the Conservation of Solar Energy .
o91 physical experiments bearing upon the question , all of which have served to strengthen my confidence and ripened in me the determination to submit my views , not without some misgiving , to the touchstone of scientific criticism .
, ^ For the purposes of my theory , stellar space is supposed to be tiled with highly rarefied gaseous matter , including probably hydrogen , oxygen , nitrogen , carbon , and their compounds , besides solid materials in " the form of dust .
This being the case , each planetary body would attract to itself an atmosphere depending for its density upon i s relative attractive importance , and it would not seem unreasonable to suppose that the heavier and less diffusible gases would form the staple of these atmospheres ; that , in fact , they would consist mostly of nitrogen , oxygen , and carbonic anhydride , whilst hydrogen and its compounds would predominate in space . .
1 But the planetary system , as a whole , would exercise an attrac n e influence upon the gaseous matter diffused through space , and would therefore be enveloped in an atmosphere , holding an intermediate position between the individual planetary atmospheres and the extremely rarefied atmosphere of the stellar space .
# In support of this view it may be urged , that m following out the molecular theory of gases as laid down by Clausius , Clerk Maxwe , and Thomson , it would be difficult to assign a limit to a gaseous atmosphere in space and , further , that some writers , among whom I will here mention only Grove , Humboldt , Zoellner , and Mattieu Williams have boldly asserted the existence of a space filled with matter , and t a Newton himself , as Dr. Sterry Hunt tells ns in an interesting paper which has only just reached me , has expressed views m favour ot sue an assumption .
" Further than this , we have the facts that meteorolites whose flight through stellar , or at all events through interplanetary space , is suddenly arrested by being brought into collision with our earth , are known to contain as much as six times their own volume ot gases taken at atmospheric pressure ; and Dr. Flight has only very recently communicated to the Royal Society the analysis o e occluded gases of one of these meteorolites taken immediately after the descent to be as follows :\#151 ; C02 .
... ... ... ... ... ... 0 12 CO ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
31-88 H ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
45-79 CH4 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4-55 N ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17 -6G 100 -oo It appears surprising that there was no aqueous vapour , considering there was much hydrogen and oxygen in combination with carbon , but Dr. C. W. Siemens .
[ Mar. 2 , perhaps the vapour escaped observation , or was expelled to a greater extent than the other gases by external heat when the meteorolite passed through our atmosphere .
Opinions concur that the gases found occluded in meteorolites cannot be supposed to have entered into their composition during the very short period of traversing our atmosphere , but if any doubt should exist on this head , it ought to be set at rest by the fact that the gas principally occluded is hydrogen , which is not contained in our atmosphere in any appreciable quantity .
Further proof of the fact that stellar space is filled with gaseous matter is furnished by spectrum analysis , and it appears from recent investigation , by Dr. Huggins and others , that the nucleus of a comet contains very much the same gases found occluded in meteorolites , including " carbon , hydrogen , nitrogen , and probably oxygen , " whilst , according to the views set forth by Dewar and Living , it also contains nitrogenous compounds such as cyanogen .
Adversely to the assumption that interplanetary space is filled with gases , it is urged that the presence of ordinary matter would cause sensible retardation of planetary motion , such as must have made itself felt before this ; but assuming that the matter filling space is an almost perfect fluid not limited by border surfaces , it can be shown on purely mechanical grounds , that the retardation by friction through such an attenuated medium would be very slight indeed , even at planetary velocities .
But it may be contended that , if the views here advocated regarding the distribution of gases were true , the sun should draw to himself the bulk of the least diffusible , and therefore the heaviest gases , such as carbonic anhydride , carbonic oxide , oxygen and nitrogen , whereas spectrum analysis has proved on the contrary a prevalence of hydrogen .
In explanation of this seeming anomaly , it can be shown in the first place , that the temperature of the sun is so high , that such compound gases as carbonic anhydride and carbonic oxide , could not exist within him ; it has been contended , indeed , by Mr. Lockyer , that none of the metalloids have any existence at these temperatures , although as regards oxygen , Dr. Draper asserts its existence in the solar photosphere .
There must be regions , however , outside that thermal limit , where their existence would not be jeopardised by heat , and here great accumulation of those comparatively heavy gases that constitute our atmosphere would probably take place , were it not for a certain counterbalancing action .
I here approach a point of principal importance in my argument , upon the proof of which my further conclusions must depend .
The sun completes one revolution on its axis in 25 days , and its diameter being taken at 882,000 miles , it follows that the tangential velocity amounts to 1*25 miles per second , or to 4'41 times the 1882 .
] On the Conservation of Solar Energy .
Mairar in 1731 , attributed , the appearance ot the zodiacal light La Place refected this explanation on the ground that the zodiacal light extended to a distance from the sun exceeding our own distance , whereas the equatorial rise of the solar atmosphere due to its rotation could not exceed *ths of the distance of Mercury .
But it must be remembered that La Place based his calculation upon the hypothesis of an empty stellar space ( filled only with an imaginary ether ) and that the result of solar rotation would be widely different , if it was supposed to take place within a medium of unbounded extension .
In this case pressures would be balanced all round , and the sun won d act mechanically upon the floating matter suiroun m i in manner of a fan , drawing it towards itself upon the polar surfaces , and promoting it outward in a continuous disk-like stream .
By this fan action , hydrogen , hydrocarbons , and oxygen , are supposed to be drawn in enormous quantities toward the polar surfaces of the sun ; during their gradual approach , they will pass from their condition of extreme attenuation and extreme cold , to that ot compression , accompanied with rise of temperature , until on approaching the photosphere , they burst into flame , giving rise to a great development of heat , and a temperature commensurate with their point ot dissociation at the solar density .
The result of their combustion will be aqueous vapour and carbonic anhydride or oxide , according o e sufficiency or the insufficiency of oxygen present to complete the combustion , and these products of combustion in yielding to the influence of centrifugal force will flow toward the solar equator , and be thence projected into space .
The next question for consideration is : What would become of these products of combustion when thus rendered back into space P Apparently they would gradually change the condition of stellar material , rendering it more and more neutral , but I venture to suggest the possibility , nay , the probability , that solar radiation would , under these circumstances , step in to bring back the combined materials to a condition of separation by a process of dissociation carried into effect at the expense of that solar energy which is now supposed to be lost to our planetary system .
According to the law of dissociation as developed by Bunsen and Sainte-Claire Deville , the point of dissociation of different compounds depends upon the temperature on the one hand , and upon the pressui e on the other .
According to Sainte-Claire Deville , the dissociation tension of aqueous vapour of atmospheric pressure and at 2800 ' G. is 0'5 , or only half of the vapour can exist as such , its remaining half being found as a mechanical mixture of hydrogen and oxygen , but that with the pressure , the temperature of dissociation rises and falls , Dr. C. W. Siemens .
[ Mar. 2 , as the temperature of saturated steam rises and falls with its pressure .
It is therefore conceivable that the temperature of the solar photo-sphere may be raised by combustion to a temperature exceeding 2800 ' C. , whereas dissociation may be effected in space at comparatively low temperatures .
These investigations had reference only to heats measured by means of pyrometers , but do not extend to the effects of radiant heat .
Dr. Tyndall has shown by his exhaustive researches that vapour of water and other gaseous compounds intercept radiant heat in a most remarkable degree , and there is other evidence to show that radiant energy from a source of high intensity possesses a dissociating power far surpassing the measurable temperature to which the compound substance under its influence is raised .
Thus carbonib anhydride and water are dissociated in the leaf cells of plants , under the influence of the direct solar ray at ordinary summer temperature , and experiments in which I have been engaged for nearly three years* go to prove that this dissociating action is obtained also under the radiant influence of the electric arc , although it is scarcely perceptible if the source of radiant energy is such as can be produced by the combustion of oil or gas .
The point of dissociation of aqueous vapour and carbonic anhydride admits , however , of being determined by direct experiment .
It engaged my attention some years ago , but I have hesitated to publish the qualitative results I then obtained , in the hope of attaining to quantitative proofs .
These experiments consisted in the employment of glass tubes , furnished with platinum electrodes , and filled with aqueous vapour or with carbonic anhydride in the usual manner , the latter being furnished with caustic soda to regulate the vapour pressure by heating .
Upon immersing one end of the tube charged with aqueous vapour in a refrigerating mixture of ice and chloride of calcium , its temperature at that end was reduced to \#151 ; 32 ' C. , corresponding to a vapour pressure , according to Regnault , of TgV^ of an atmosphere .
When so cooled no slow electric discharge took place on connecting the two electrodes with a small induction coil .
I then exposed the end of the tube projecting out of the freezing mixture , backed by white paper , to solar radiation ( on a clear summer 's day ) for several hours , when upon again connecting up to the inductorium , a discharge , apparently that of a hydrogen vacuum , was obtained .
This experiment being repeated furnished unmistakable evidence , I thought , that aqueous vapour had been dissociated by exposure to solar radiation .
The C03 tubes gave , however , less reliable results .
Hot satisfied with these qualitative results , I made arrangements to collect the permanent * See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " yol .
30 , p. 208 , and paper read before Section A , British Association , and printed in full in the Report for 1881 , Part I , p. 474 .
1882 .
] On the Conservation of Solar Energy .
o-ases so produced by means of a Sprengel pump , but was prevented by lack of time from pursuing the inquiry , which I purpose , however , to resume shortly , being of opinion that , independently of my present speculation , the experiments may prove useful in extending our knowledge regarding the laws of dissociation .
It should here be observed that , according to Professor Stokes , the ultra-violet rays are in a large measure absorbed in passing through clear glass , and it follows from this discovery that only a small portion of the chemical rays found their way through the tubes to accomplish the work of dissociation .
This circumstance , being adverse to the experiment , only serves to increase the value of the result observed .
Assuming , for my present purpose , that dissociation of aqueous vapour was really effected in the experiment just described , and assuming , further , that stellar space is filled with aqueous and other vapour of a density not exceeding the ^th part of our atmosphere , it seems reasonable to suppose that its dissociation would be effected by solar radiation , and that solar energy would thus be utilised .
The presence of carbonic anhydride and carbonic oxide would only serve to facilitate the decomposition of the aqueous vapour by furnishing substances to combine with nascent oxygen and hydrogen .
It is not necessary to suppose that all the energy radiated from the sun into space should be intercepted , inasmuch as even a partial return of heat in the manner described would serve to supplement solar radiation , the balance being made up by absolute loss .
To this loss of eneig^ must be added that involved in keeping up the circulating movement of the gas , which , however , would probably not be relatively greater than that concerned in the tidal retardation of the earth s rotation .
By means of the fan-like action resulting from thejrotation of the sun , the vapours dissociated in space would be drawn towards the polar surfaces of the sun , be heated by increase in density , and would burst into flame ut a point where both their density and temperature had reached the necessary elevation to induce combustion , each'complete cycle taking , however , years to be accomplished .
The resulting aqueous vapour , carbonic anhydride and carbonic oxide , would be drawn towards the equatorial regions , and be then again projected into space by centrifugal force .
Space would , according to these views , be filled with gaseous compounds in process of decomposition by solar radiant energy , and the .existence of these gases would furnish an explanation of the solar absorption spectrum , in which the lines of some of the substances may be entirely neutralised and lost to observation .
As regards the heavy metallic vapours revealed in the sun by the spectroscope , it is assumed that these form a lower and denser solar atmosphere , not participating in the fan-like action which is supposed to affect the light outer atmosphere only , in which hydrogen is the principal factor .
VOL. xxxiii .
2 g Dr. C. W. Siemens .
[ Mar. 2 , , Such a dense metallic atmosphere could not participate in the fan action affecting the lighter photosphere , because this is only , feasible on the supposition that the density of the in-flowing current is , at equal distances from the gravitating centre , equal or nearly equal to the outflowing current .
It is true that the products of combustion of hydrogen and carbonic oxide are denser than their constituents , but this difference may be balanced by their superior temperature on leaving the sun , whereas the metallic vapours would be unbalanced , and would therefore obey the laws of gravitation , recalling them to the sun .
On the surface of contact between the two solar atmospheres intermixture , induced by friction , must take place , however , giving rise perhaps to those vortices and explosive effects which are revealed to us by the telescope in the intermediate or stormy region of the sun , and which have been commented on by Sir John Herschel and other astronomers .
Some of the denser vapours would probably get intermixed and carried away mechanically by the lighter gases , and give rise to that cosmic dust which is observed to fall upon our earth in not inappreciable quantities .
Excessive intermixture would be prevented by the intermediary neutral atmosphere , the penumbra .
As the whole solar system moves through space at a pace estimated at 150,000,000 of miles annually ( being about one-fourth of the velocity of the earth in its orbit ) , it appears possible that the condition of the gaseous fuel supplying the sun may vary according to its state of previous decomposition , in which other heavenly bodies may have taken part .
May it not be owing to such differences in the quality of the fuel supplied that the observed variations of the solar heat may depend ?
and may it not be in consequence of such changes in the thermal condition of the photosphere that sun-spots are formed P The views here advocated could not be thought acceptable unless they furnished at any rate a consistent explanation of the still somewhat mysterious phenomena of the zodiacal light and of comets , Regarding the former , we should be able to return to Mairan 's views , the objection by La Place being met by a continuous outward flow from the solar equator .
Luminosity would be attributable to particles of dust emitting light reflected from the sun , or by phosphorescence .
But there is another cause for luminosity of these particles , which may deserve a passing consideration .
Each particle would be electrified by gaseous friction in its acceleration , and its electric tension would be vastly increased in its forcible removal , in the same way as the fine dust of the desert has been observed by Werner Siemens to be in a state of high electrification on the apex of the Cheops Pyramid .
Would not the zodiacal light also find explanation by slow electric discharge backward from the dust towards the sun ?
and would the same cause not account for a great difference Qf potential between the sun and earth , which latter may be supposed to be washed by the solar 1882.J On the Conservation of Solar Energy .
radial current ?
May not the presence of the current also furnish us with an explanation of the fact that hydrogen , while abounding apparently in space , is practically absent in our atmosphere , where aqueous vapour , which may be partly derived from the sun , takes its place ?
An action analogous to this , though on a much smaller scale , may be set up also by terrestrial rotation giving rise to an electrical discharge from the outgoing equatorial stream to the polar regions , where the atmosphere to be pierced by the return flood is of least resistance .
It is also important to show how the phenomena of comets could be harmonised with the views here advocated , and I venture to hope that these occasional visitors will serve to furnish us with positive evidence in my favour .
Astronomical physicists tell us that the nucleus of a comet consists of an aggregation of stones similar to meteoric stones .
Adopting this view , and assuming that the stones have absorbed in stellar space gases to the amount of six times their volume , taken at atmospheric pressure , what it may be asked , will be the effect of such a mass of stone advancing towards the sun at a velocity reaching in perihelion the prodigious rate of 366 miles per second ( as observed in the comet of 1845 ) , being twenty-three times our orbital rate of motion .
It appears evident that the entry of such a divided mass into a comparatively dense atmosphere must be accompanied by a rise of temperature by frictional resistance , aided by attractive condensation .
At a certain point the increase of temperature must cause ignition , and the heat thus produced must drive out the occluded gases , which in an atmosphere 3000 times less dense than that of our earth would produce 6x3000 = 18,000 times the volume of the stones themselves .
These gases would issue forth in all directions , but would remain unobserved except in that of motion , in which they would meet the interplanetary atmosphere with the compound velocity , and form a zone of intense combustion , such as Dr. Huggins has lately observed to surround the one side of the nucleus , evidently the side of forward motion .
The nucleus would thus emit original light , whereas the tail may be supposed to consist of stellar dust rendered luminous by reflex action produced by the light of the sun and comet combined , as foreshadowed already by Tyndall , Tate , and others , starting each from different assumptions .
These are in brief the outlines of my reflections regarding this most fascinating question , which I venture to put before the Royal Society .
Although I cannot pretend to an intimate acquaintance with the more intricate phenomena of solar physics , I have long had a conviction , derived principally from familiarity with some of the terrestrial effects of heat , that the prodigious and seemingly wanton dissipation of solar heat is unnecessary to satisfy accepted principles regarding the conservation of energy , but that it may be arrested and returned over and over again to the sun , in a manner somewhat analogous 2 g 2 398 Lord Rayleigh .
Value of the British Association [ Mar. 9 , to the action of the heat recuperator in the regenerative gas furnace .
The fundamental conditions are :\#151 ; 1 .
That aqueous vapour and carbon compounds are present in stellar or interplanetary space .
2 .
That these gaseous compounds are capable of being dissociated by radiant solar energy while in a state of extreme attenuation .
3 .
That these dissociated vapours are capable of being compressed into the solar photosphere by a process of interchange with an equal amount of reassociated vapours , this interchange being effected by the centrifugal action of the sun itself .
If these conditions could be substantiated , we should gain the satisfaction that our solar system would no longer impress us with the idea of prodigious waste through dissipation of energy into space , but rather with that of well-ordered self-sustaining action , capable of perpetuating solar radiation to the remotest future .
March 9 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Anthony John Mundella , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Eellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. Experiments to Determine the Value of the British Association Unit of Resistance in Absolute Measure .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received February 15 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of a repetition by Dr. Schuster , Mrs. Sidgwick , and myself , of the British Association experiment on the unit of resistance with an improved apparatus .
Three distinct series of observations were taken , of which the two first were more or less imperfect .
In the third series an extraordinary concordance in the results obtained on different occasions at the same speed of rotation was arrived at , but the numbers corresponding to the four speeds

