]\gt ; On the 26-day Period of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
417 application of the photographs , I need not say much that the use of gratings would become more general reduced in the proportion , say , of 20 to 1 , more particularly accompanying inferiority of performance .
sent with this paper are both capable of showing the give fairl .
bright spectra , but they must not be supposed of what is possible .
From their appearance under the mino reason to doubt that lines 6000 to the inch cau be copied method , a point which I hope shortly to put to the test of II .
" " On the 26-day Period of the Earth 's Magnetic Force By J. A. F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1872 .
The Astronomer Royal 's communication to the Royal Society on this subject ( supra , p. 308 ) has drawn my attention to the investigation made by the Director of the Prague Observatory .
Dr. Hornstein having remarked the uncertainty of the result for the time of the sun 's rotation as deduced from the movement of the spots in different zones on its surface , thought it would be desirable to consider other phenomena associated with the sun 's rotation ; and the apparent connexion of the frequency of the solar spots with the amount of the maginduced him to seek for a period in the daily mean values elements .
For this end he grouped the daily means of made at Prague and Vienna in 1870 varying from and subjecting the resulting means to calculation for the of sines , he considered the most probable of the which had the greatest value .
calculated result from the declination at but a graphic interpolation from the same obserdays ; the declination for the same year at Vienna days , while the inclination at Prague showed concludes that the mean of these four values , " " provisionally as the most probable value [ of the of the first experiment to determine the time of by means of the magnetic needle .
true derived from this days , almost exnctly found by Spoerer from astronomical observations of the sun 's spots in the equatoreal zone\ldquo ; Sir David Brewster , pnblished in the ' Philosophical Mr. J. A. on the Magazine ' for August 1858 , I made the folloWing remark which I have now obtained from three years ' observations netic equator , it appears to me , wholly independent of the due to the sun 's rotation on its axis .
If we could suppose magnetic poles are fixed , it might then be possible to the time of the sun 's rotation by means of the movement of If , on the other hand , the poles are in motion , as I conceive shall have to employ another period than days , as solar spots .
The period to be ) oyed will of course be ( ; xamination of the observations and by trial\ldquo ; [ of different views resul from a discussiozl of observations of the made at Trevandrum in the years 1855 , 1856 , and 1857 .
In February 1861 a paper by me was read to the Edinburgh , ; conclusions derived from an observations of the horizontal force which had been published , 1842 and 1848 , the whole having been recorrected for own method , for the purpose of this and other chiefly on the simultaneous daily means of observations toun , Trevandrum , Singapore , and Hobarton during the 1845 ( the only years for which a complete diurnal Makerstoun ) , I arrived at the conclusion , from an of successive periods , shown nearly equally well at all the that there was a period of nearly 26 days , probably due to tion on its axis , the mean of the whole number of periods days * .
The ations , however , seemed to show that the had a variable length , though this might be due to some gular disturbing dependent , perhaps , on the and it might be on other arguments , such as the position In the examination of observations made by me in India , for the greatest amplitude on tnal of periods of 26 to 27 poned a complele estigation till the observations of a ycars should enable me to follow more certainly the the length of the single periods ; this other investigations prevented , and I am glad that Dr. Hornstein has taken though ignorant of my previous conclusions .
Mr. Airy 's communication on this subject is very clusion refers to a period of days ; although imperfect for such a period , it seems to me that the projected , give considerable grounds for concluding 26 days exists .
In what follows , I limit myself of the horizontal force , as I found that element , rected for temperature , best fitted to show the The Astronomer Royal has noted a probable of the correction ) for the secular *Trans .
Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
vol. xxii .
26-day Periodof the Earth 's agnetic Force .
in the investigation , I have sought to determine from the period in year .
A considelation of the mean horizont force at Greenwich will show that it varies irreguto year , and that no single value employed a corrcction uniform from the beginning to the of a satisfy all the years .
I adopted the ] owing method to obtain on ( being in possession of the Greenwich observations ) : \mdash ; by the mean value for the 1st day with that for the 14th , that of with the me for the , and so on , 13 lues of the days are obtained for any gradual change , which nill be aptrue whether thel e be a period of 26 days or no period method gave the mean change ring 1 days for each year as all cases 00001 of the whole horizontal force .
ing parts of these quantities with the signs of horizontal force for the respective years ( Table , I then calculated the lues of the constants for the term .
are as follow:\mdash ; 1850 . . . . . .
with m 5 .
, , 12.8 1852. . . . . .
, , 1869 . . . . . .
, , , , of group : 1850-52rith m at 1868-70 .
, , seen that the four , 1852 , 1869 , and 1870 half , the same epoch for the maximum .
I shall immediatelv , but shall first consider the to , made at Makerstoun in]844 and 1845 , which days .
change for each was first determined as follows:\mdash ; force for December 1843 minus the mean for Death mean for January ] minus the mean for January results , the mean of which was taken as the change during way the change for 1845 was found : the correctious Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
vol. .
pt .
2 , .
xxxi .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the for 26 days were found , for means from the Tables*were then arranged in days , as follows:\mdash ; The for secular change were applied to the from these groups , in the calculation for days part of a day in excess was omitted , while in that for the 26th day of each third period served also as the 1st day of resulting means are given in the following Table:\mdash ; Mean HorizontaI Force for each day in periods of , 26 , deduced the Makerstoun Observations for 1844 The unit of the whole horizontal force .
A constant was subtracted from the means to obtain ths abovo qunntities .
, as for the Greenwich means , calculated the term a ) , they were found as follows:\mdash ; Table xxii Makerstoun Obsorvations , 1844 , Trans. Roy .
p. 355 ; and Tables xviii .
and lvii .
Makorstoun Observations , Edinb .
vol. .
pt .
2 , pp. 11 , 32 .
Period of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
though the constant varies little , it is greatest for of 26 days ; on the other haIld , the constant and this constant may be made the most delicate test period .
By the period of days , the maximum hap1st and 2nd days in 1844 , but ten days later in 1845 ; period , on the other hand , it happens seven days earlier in The 26-day period shows a difference in the same evident that if the time employed for the calculation be less true period , the maximum resulting from the superposition of a of periods will be thrown later than the maximum derived from period ; if , on the other hand , the time employed be longer time , the maximum resulting from the superposition will The difference between the epochs of maximum derived series of groups tvill thus give an approximation to period employed .
If apply this to the difference of preceding Table , remembenng that 14 periods intervene means from the two ( excepting for the days , when periods ) , we shall obtain the following corrections to the Mean period found in my paper , already referred to , from intervaIs from minimum to minimum throughout however , that this exact agreement is accidental ; the for its determination , not only an exact correction for but also for the annual period ; though any slight additional correction might produce would probably have final resuIt .
in view , we may now return to the Greenwich values .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the If we suppose , as the above calcuJations indicate , maximum to maximum is somewhat less than the differences of the epochs for 1852-1850 and alues of the period:\mdash ; 1852 minus 1850 . .
days .
1870 minus 1868. .
, , The resuIt from 1870 and 1868 is that which merits the owing to the largeness .
of the coefficient for these two years .
sum , then , that the true period is 26 days , we may , tion to the epochs of maximum for 1870 and 1852 find the epochs for 1869 and 1851 : these would be for three days later than results from the calculation ; and for five days later than from the calculation ; and the smallness cient for 1851 would show that an error of this amount is We have still , however , another means of determining values , 26 or , is the most probable .
The two from the Greenwich observations are those for 1852 and compare the epochs of maximum from these years with that the Makerstoun tions for 1844 .
The terms for these having the largest value of the constant are ( in 100 , of 1844 . . . . . .
days .
1852 . . . . . .
1870 . . . . . .
Now as the peried began in 1844 with the 1st of msximum in that ycar corresponded to the 25th January .
first day of the period the December , 1851 ) pened on the 12th January , 1852 .
In the first day the 8th January , and the maximum occurred on the 1870* ; and we have for the epochs of maximum , with days , as follow:\mdash ; 26-day Period of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
for 1844 and 1870 are , I think , very near the truth , and within 2 days , the epoch with a period of 26 days ; and may be given to the epoch for compared with that diminish the probability of the value .
On the other compared with 1870 satisfies exactly the period of days ; also be satisfied equally well by a period of days ; so is , in this case , too great to decide between the two values .
resuIts , however , seem to me sufficient , and , neglecting the long have from days is a tenth of a day of the truth .
as the existence of a period of near 26 days is concerned , I be the slightest doubt ; the examination of great masses confirmed my belief in it , as it has Dr. Hornstein 's .
But certainly ils to its cause : it appears to be most probably the sun 's rotation ; but in what way this may act single periods show great breaks , and what may be termed in opposition to the minima belonging to the period : minima are connected with great disturbances , probably eruptions or to causes generally produce spots and It is to these accidental minima that the smallness of the the term for 1845 is due .
We might suppose that the sun produces an action on the magnetic or electric ether in far as it acts on our nets , may be supposed in greater condensed in certain parts of the earth 's orbit and in as has been supposed in the case of the frequency of ether may also be acted on by the planets , and produce length of a few successive periods .
These supposito show that we are perhaps not in possession of all problem , without which perfect exactness in the calagain those interested in the subject to plate xxvii .
of the lloyal Society of Edinburgh , vol. xxii .
, where horizontal force are projected for four stations on the of which agree in showing the same movements , some amplitude of 002 of the whole horizontal force ( the result for 1870 ves a mean value of nearly the half interv of about 26 days .
424 On the 26-day Period of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
Postscript I. Received June 6 , 1872 .
In determining the interval between the maximum of that of January 1852 , the epoch of maximum for 26-day groups , was compared with that from the Either the latter should be corrected by day epoch found for the 2 , -day group in 1844 ( day should be taken .
In either case the number of days 2911 days , which is oniy one day less than 112 periods is equivalent to 112 periods of days .
If we try 113 periods , we obtain days for the length is less than that by any of the one-and two-year comparisons .
interval , from January 1844 to 1870 , becomes tion made ) 9494 days , which number is equivalent , or 366 periods of days .
The most probable values for the moment appear to be Postscript II .
Received July 4 , 1872 .
Since writing the preceding note , I have examined the the biIilar magnetometer made at different stations on the during the years 1842 , 1843 , 1846 , and 1847 , and found , paper already cited for the years 1844 and 1845 , that the daily mean horizontal force are the same at all stations at this I consider a test essential in the first instance before observations other resuIts which depend on the changes from day to day .
In the case of the observations for the years just for 1844 and 1845 , great disturbances are indicated diminution of the mean magnetic force ; these diminutions so great , that in the calculations for a single year they mimimum .
In my on the Horizontal Force of the Earth 's stated that " " a careful investigation of a much larger series leads me to believe that the period is variable within whether this variation is due to a change of the solar the maximum after certain intervals , or to superposed causes , I hoped , and hope yet , to determine .
If the variation is one about a mean value , then that determined by comparing the result of two well-marked separated by an interval of several years , as has been done Trans. Roy . .
Edin .
vol. xxii .
p. 644 .
On the History of the Ethylene Bases .
hand , the sun 's meridian producing the maximum shouId be sought for each year by the trial of as has been done by Dr. Hornstein for Prague , Makerstoun .
towards the History of the Ethylene Bases Ph. D.2 F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Received May 20 , which , since the discovery of the remarkable of this compound , is conducted on a daily increasing of secondary products which have not failed to chemists .
Some time ago I showed that the these by-products ( .onsists almost entirely of constituting a very able material for the pre- quantity of the ethylated ammonias .
The fraction is chiefly bichloride of ethylene , to the action of alcoholic ammonia at , furbases such as would be difficult to obtain from one of the principal manufacturers of chloral at my disposal between 30 and 40 kilograms which the kindness of my friends Drs. Martius placing at my disposal one of their magnificent permitted me to treat in one single operation 1vith operation was a large proportion of sal-ammoniac a dark alcoholic mother-liquor which , after the off , yielded on evaporation a brown crystalline of ethylene bases .
Large quantities of ethylenea state of absolute purity were separated from this An additional portion was procured afCer it had ceased to crystallize , with an the first products , as long as they yielded with crystallizable ethylenediamine salt .
In this of the perfectly pure chlorhydrate was obquantities of the more complex bases , which I have separate .
having thus been opened , I induced l'emarkable substance , the history of which still of gaps .
I was more particularly anxious to ascerreactions , to which the alcohol bases to themselves , might be with equal success bases .

