A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the Motion of the Blood .
" By James Carson , M.D. , F.R.S. May 9 , 1839 .
The MARQUIS of NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
William Sharpey , M.D. and the Rev. Charles Turnor , M.A. were balloted for , and duly elected into the Society .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Motion of the Blood .
" By James Carson , M.D. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
After referring to his paper contained in the Philosophical Transactions for 1820 , relative to the influence of the elasticity of the lungs as a power contributing to the effectual expansion of the heart , and promoting the motion of the blood in the veins , the author states that his object in this paper is to explain more fully the mode in which these effects are produced , and to corroborate by additional facts and observations the arguments adduced in its support .
He endeavours , from a review of the circumstances under which the veins are placed , to show the inconclusiveness of the objections which have been urged by various physiologists against his and the late Sir David Barry*s theory of suction : namely , that the sides of a pliant vessel , when a force of suction is applied , will collapse and arrest the further transmission of fluid though that channel .
The considerations which he deems adequate to give efficacy to the power of suction in the veins of a living animal are , first , the posi ?
tion of the veins by which , though pliant vessels , they acquire in some degree the properties of rigid tubes ; secondly , the immersion of the venous blood in a medium of a specific gravity at least equal to its own ; thirdly , the constant introduction of recrementitious matter into the venous system at its capillary extremities by which the volume of the venous blood is increased , and its motion urged onwards to the heart in distended vessels ; and lastly , the gravity of the fluid itself , creating an outward pressure at all parts of the veins below the highest level of the venous system .
The author illustrates his positions by the different quantities of blood which are found to flow from the divided vessels of an ox , according to the different modes in which the animal is slaughtered .

