5 .
" On the Dentate Body of the Cerebellum , " By William Brinton , M.D. Communicated by R. B. Todd , : M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 23 , 1852 .
The corpus dentatum has generally been described and recognised as a wavy line or lamina of grey matter , which is seen in certain sections of the crus of the cerebellum , and contains fibres apparently derived from the restiform body , and the processus e cerebello ad testes .
Reil 's account , with some vague and conflicting details , gives it a more definitely tubular form , although he is capparently not certain of the continuity of its upper and lower layers posteriorly .
The author explains these somewhat varying descriptions by the physical 'characters of the tissues ' investigated , and by the condition -fresh or hardened in spirit-of the specimens examined by different anatomists .
He deduces the form and situation of the recent corpus dentatum by uniting numerous and successive sections made in the three directions of space* .
Its arrangement with , respect to the fibres of the cerebellum , ' cerebrum , medulla oblongata , and medulla : spinalis , is chiefly deduced ; from examinations of specimens hardened in alcohol .
By these two methods he is led to the following conclusions , that each corpus dentatum forms -a tubular investment td the extremity of the processus e cerebello ad testem ; it is ' open towards the fourtth ventricle , and is connected with the opposite body by a commissure of grey matter in its median line .
While its interior ' exclusively receives the fibres of this cerebro-cerebellar peduncle , its 'ex/ terior radiates fibres to the various lobes of the cerebellum , which-'fibres , at the bottom of each lobe-stem , become inseparably mixed with a bundle from the restiformbody , and with another from the pons varolii .
Its comparative anatomy in mammalia corresponds with this view ; its minute anatomy does not contradict it .
And while the physiologieal import of this arrangement eludes all conjecture , the author has little doubt that its anatomical structure and relations are best comprehended in the formula which he would thus assign to it , viz. : that of being the cerebrodcerebellar ganglion .

