282 Miss S. C. M. Sowton and Mr. J. S. Macdonald .
[ Dec. 10t ( 2 .
) There is no essential difference between the nerves of frogs , mammals , and birds as regards their negative variation , excitability , and reaction to anaesthetics .
( 3 .
) There is a marked difference in the extinction point for heat .
The negative variation in frog 's nerve is abolished at 40\#151 ; 42 ' C. , in rabbit 's nerve at 48\#151 ; 49 ' , in pigeon 's nerve at 53 ' .
( 4 .
) This extinction point corresponds closely with the first coagulation point of the body proteids , where these are known , and thus coagulation is probably the cause of the permanent loss of irritability of the nerve .
( 5 .
) The point at which the nerves are paralysed by cold is - 3''5 in the frog , \#151 ; 1'*4 in the hedgehog , + 3''8 in the rabbit , and + 6'-9 in the pigeon . .
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to Dr. A. D. Waller for his great kindness and assistance in everything connected with this paper .
" On the Decline of the Injury Current in Mammalian Nerve , and its Modification by Changes of Temperature .
Preliminary Note .
" By S. C. M. Sowton and J. S. Macdonald .
( From the Thompson-Yates Laboratory of Physiology , University College , Liverpool .
) Communicated by Professor C. S. Sherrington , F.B.S. Beceived December 10 , 1902 , \#151 ; Eeacl February 12 , 1903 .
The sciatic nerve of a freshly-killed frog led off from transverse section and longitudinal surface to a galvanometer , gives a current of injury which , as Engelmann* and others have pointed out , is greatest immediately after the section has been made .
If tested at frequent intervals , it is found that from the outset the E.M.F. rapidly diminishes .
A continuous record of the decline of the current may be obtained , by photographing the movement of the galvanometer spot , using for the purpose the method devised by Dr. Waller , and fully described in his papers . !
The nerve with its electrodes being inclosed in a moist chamber , such an observation may be prolonged almost indefinitely .
The Curve is convex to its abscissa , the decline being rapid at first and gradually diminishing in speed .
If the injury current of fresh mammalian nerve be examined in a similar way , the records show in many cases a marked difference of curve , the decline being often very gradual ; some records even * Engelmann , * 3 ?
finger s Archiv , ' vol. 15 , pp. 116\#151 ; 148 .
f S. C. M. Sowton , ' International Congress , ' Cambridge , 1898 .
1902 .
] On the Injury Current in Mammalian Nerve .
283 exhibiting an actual rise , so that the highest value of the injury current is only attained when the nerve has lain for some time upon the electrodes .
Several observers* have noted the initial rise , and explanations have been offered which accord with the generally held " alteration " theory of the nerve current .
In face , however , of facts recently brought forward in a series of papers by one of us , f it is difficult to accept the prevailing theory as satisfactory .
The attempt was therefore made to study this particular phase of the injury current from the point of view set forth in the papers alluded to .
That view , which may be called the " concentration cell " theory of the injury current , is based upon the hypothesis of the core-model structure of nerve , ] and lays stress on certain pre-existing peculiarities of constitution .
These may briefly be described as ( )a separation of the solutions of electrolytes of the nerve into internal and external solutions by a membrane which permits only imperfect diffusion to take place between them ; ( b ) a difference in the quantitative distribu tion of electrolytes in the solutions , the internal one being of small volume , but of great concentration and high specific conductivity .
Such a difference between the solutions must give rise on ' rupture of the membrane , as by section or other injury , to diffusion processes , and consequently to differences of potential .
If such electrical differences as are found in the phenomenon of the injury current arise from the source indicated , they should be capable of modification in just the same manner that a process of diffusion can be modified .
The value of a diffusion process depends primarily upon the concentration ratio of the two solutions in contact , and may be increased by diluting the weaker solution .
In the experiments already reported upon , S the extreme case of this dilution was exemplified by immersing the nerve for a short time in water ; the result was an increase of the injury current due to the enhanced value of the diffusion process .
In relation to the experiments recorded here , it may be said that the temperature of the solutions , or the fact of any difference of temperature existing between them , is hardly less important than the concentration .
In frog 's nerve , the solutions are already approximately at the temperature of the laboratory .
But with mammalian nerve the case is very different .
Removed immediately after death , such a nerve has a temperature presumably not far removed from that of the * Waller , " Croonian Lecture , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' London , 1896 .
t J. S. Macdonald , " The Source of the Demarcation Current considered as a Concentration Cell , " ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 315 , \amp ; c. , 1900 , \amp ; c. ; " The Injury Current of Nerve .
The Key to its Physical Structure , " The Thompson Yates Laboratories ' Reports , ' vol. 4 , part 2 , 1902 , pp. 213\#151 ; 350 .
X Grriinhagen , ' Konigsberger Med. Jahrb .
, 'vol .
4 , p. 199 ; Strong , 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 25 , p. 427 ; Boruttau , ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 63 , p. 154 , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. S J. S. Macdonald , ' The Thompson Yates Laboratories ' Report , ' loc. 284 On the Injury Current i Mammalian Nerve .
[ Dec. 10 , mammalian body .
Cooling must , therefore , continue after the nerve has reached the electrodes ; and this cooling is not a perfectly simple matter , for the fatty sheath of the nerve is not only , probably , a bad conductor of electricity , but also undoubtedly an indifferent conductor of heat , we should expect , therefore , the cooling process to be differential , the temperature of the external solution falling sooner than that of the internal solution or axis cylinder ; and since cooling is in a manner equivalent to dilution , the concentration ratio of the two solutions should be at first increased , and with it the value of the E.M.F. The theory then affords an explanation of the increase observed when a nerve just out of the body is examined at a lower temperature .
It remained to further exemplify this fact by attempting to reproduce the .
phenomenon at will .
An experiment was so arranged that the proper temperature of the nerve was artificially maintained , and then at a given moment allowed to fall gradually .
The resulting curve shows that at or near body temperature the injury current declined rapidly ; in this particular case it fell in half-an-hour 44 per cent , of its original value .
In the second portion of the record during the period of cooling , the rapid fall was arrested , there was a-period of hesitation , and then a slow rise of the current .
On the .
temperature being again raised , the current resumed its rapid decline .
In such an experiment the alteration of condition obtained by fall of temperature is comparable to that produced by dilution of the external solution , and the results are in complete agreement .
It is not surprising that to obtain such an initial rise it is to restrain the fall of temperature within certain limits , outside of which the effect is masked by a more powerful factor working in the direction of diminution .
Where , for example , a nerve fresh from the body is transferred to a temperature of 0 ' C. , there is no initial increase ; for here the difference of temperature between nerve and surroundings being great , the rate of cooling will be rapid , and internal solution as well as external will be quickly affected , and to cool the internal solution is equivalent to diminishing its concentration and hence to a lowering in value of the diffusion process .
Extreme cooling should , indeed , annul the production of the injury current , by arresting the processes of diffusion upon which its manifestation depends .
Yet , in a cooled nerve , the source of the phenomena , the concentration ratio , is preserved , and a raising of the temperature ought again to develop the injury current .
This expectation is fulfilled experimentally .
At a temperature near 0 ' C. the current declined rapidly , but it regained its value to a great extent as the temperature was increased .
With a nerve maintained at body temperature the injury current fell rapidly .
A high temperature favours .
diffusion ( i.e. , the equalising of the solutions ) , and the phenomenon 1902 .
] On the Formation of Definite Dust-figures .
285 is reduced by exhausting the value of the source .
A low temperature reduces the value of the injury current by checking the process upon which it depends .
Both extremes , then , reduce the value of the current , but by quite different means .
This being so , there will be a mean temperature around which these two effects are balanced ; at which the value of the source decreases less rapidly than at the higher temperature , and the value of the diffusion process is greater than at the lower temperature , at which , therefore , the injury E.M.F. is best maintained .
This consideration led to the systematic study of the injury current at different steady temperatures , and the sought-for point of best maintained E.M.F. was found to lie between 14 ' and 19 ' C. In the experiments hitherto considered , we have dealt with current , no allowance being made for changes of resistance brought about by altered temperature .
The error , in some cases , was of no great moment , in others , those , namely , where a lowering of- temperature gave an increased injury current ; a correction for altered resistance would but have accentuated the point it was sought to establish .
Blit there are instances in which the error might be serious\#151 ; and it .seemed , therefore , desirable throughout the inquiry to supplement the photographic records by a series of observations , in which measurements of potential by compensation should be taken at frequent intervals .
Such measurements have been undertaken by us , and completely confirm the statements made above .
" On the Formation of Definite Figures by the Deposition of Dust .
" By W. J. Bussell , Pli .
D. , F.B.S. Beceived January 29 , \#151 ; Bead February 19 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The author shows that when a plate of glass or other material is slightly warmed and allowed to cool for 6 or 7 minutes in a dustladen atmosphere , a clear and definite figure is formed on the plate .
The figure is determined by the form of the plate on which it is deposited .
If a square plate is used then a simple cross is formed , a ray of deposit proceeds from each corner of the plate to the centre .
If the plate be triangular , a ray again proceeds from each corner ; and with an octangular plate an eight-rayed star is formed .
In every case the number and position of the angles of the plate determine the form of the figure .
The dust generally used was that produced by burning magnesium ribbon , but any fine dust acts in the same way and produces the same figures .

