magnetized as weakly as is consistent with the condition that the apparent shall not greatly differ from the true dip , we shall obtain two more equations of the form n " ' ( A-B)=(0 ' " ) -0 , n".(A + B)=(0'd"")--0 ; and these four equations , when suitably combined , will determine the values of the three unknown quantities A , B , 0 .
The magnetic moments involved in these equations may be determined with little trouble , and with sufficient accuracy , by placing the needle as a deflector on a unifilar magnetometer , and observing the angle of deflection produced thereby upon the suspended magnet .
A series of observations has been commenced by the author with the view of testing whether the true dip can be determined exactly with a single needle by the method above described , the results of which he hopes to communicate to the Royal Society hereafter .
fact , many theories have been advanced to explain its nature ; but all of them , without exception , have laboured under the disadvantage of being purely hypothetical in their character , and quite incapable of demonstration by an appeal to experiment .
Thus , while some writers have attributed the effect to an imaginary law of vital attraction , others have more correctly referred it to the operation of some unexplained physical cause .
Professor Lister ( son of the original observer already mentioned ) , who has devoted much attention to this subject , says , in a paper submitted to the Royal Society , June 18 , 1857 , and published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1858 , p. 648:- " For my own part , I am satisfied that the rouleaux are simply the result of the biconcave form of the red disks , together with a certain though not very great degree of adhesiveness , which retains them pretty firmly attached together when in the position most favourable for its operation , viz. when the margins of their concave surfaces are applied accurately together , but allows them to slip upon one another when in any other position .
There is never to be seen anything indicating the existence of an attractive force drawing the corpuscles towards each other : they merely stick together when brought into contact by accidental causes .
Their adhesiveness does not affect themselves alone , but other substances also , as may be seen when blood is in motion in an extremely thin film between two plates of glass , when they may be observed sticking for a longer or shorter time to one of the surfaces of the glass , each one dragging behind it a short tail-like process .
" Again , at the end of section I. , p. 652 of the same paper , Lister says , " From the facts detailed in this section , it appears that the aggregation of the corpuscles of blood removed from the body depends on their possessing a certain degree of mutual adhesiveness , which is much greater in the colourless globules than in the red disks , and that in the latter this property , though apparently not dependent upon vitality , is capable of remarkable variations in consequence of very slight chemical changes in the liquor sanguinis .
" From these quotations it is apparent that Mr. Lister ignores altogether the idea of the aggregation of the corpuscles being due to an attractive force or energy , and refers it to adhesiveness or stickiness of the corpuscles ; in his own words , " they merely stick together when brought into contact by accidental causes .
" At the same time he states that this adhesiveness is liable to great variations , both in the way of increase and diminution , by very slight changes in the chemical qualities of the plasma .
Dipping deeper into the writings of Lister , we find that this idea of adhesiveness or stickiness of the corpuscles is retained in his explanation of the nature of inflammatory stasis .
And his views upon the subject generally may be summed up in three propositions:1 .
The blood-corpuscles exhibit no tendency to unite together in healthy blood within the vessels , although such blood may be in a state of rest .
2 .
The corpuscles become suddenly adhesive ( in 10 seconds ) when , by being shed , the blood is brought into contact with ordinary matter .
3 .
Irritation , by reducing the vitality of the surrounding tissues , causes them to bear the same relation to the blood within the vessels in their immediate vicinity as ordinary matter does to that which has been shed , inducing adhesiveness of the corpuscles , and thus bringing about inflammatory stasis .
These effects upon the blood-corpuscles are assumed by Lister to depend upon chemical changes induced by ordinary matter or by vitally degraded tissues upon the plasma of the blood ; but inasmuch as chemical changes cannot occur without corresponding physical modifications , it is quite as rational to refer the increased aggregating-tendency displayed by the corpuscles to physical as to chemical changes in the liquor sanguinis ; and this view has the advantage of not requiring us to believe that the functional activity of the tissues is depressed by mild forms of irritation-an idea which is opposed to all we know of the increased nutritive and formative changes which follow in the wake of irritation .
Having now briefly reviewed the existing position of the subject , we will proceed to consider the real causes at work in the production of the phenomenon under consideration .
Many years since , having familiarised myself with the behaviour of , and the appearances presented by blood-corpuscles under almost every conceivable condition , both within and without the vessels , I became profoundly impressed with the conviction that these phenomena had their origin in some physical law of attraction , and at the same time felt not the less certain that , if this view proved to be correct , the behaviour of the blood-corpuscles would be found to be no isolated exhibition of this law , and that , provided conditions similar to those which exist in the case of the blood-corpuscles could be obtained , many illustrative examples of the operation of the law would be immediately forthcoming .
That such attractive force did not exert its influence through distances readily appreciable was obvious , and this fact at once indicated that it must be sought for among those forms of attraction which have been designated molecular .
After much experiment and reflection I came , in 1862 , to the conclusion that these phenomena were due to no less universal a law than that of cohesive attraction ; and I embodied the views I then held upon the subject in a paper which was read before the Royal Society , and published in the Proceedings , entitled " The Causes of various Phenomena of Attraction and Adhesion as exhibited in Solid Bodies , Films , Vesicles , Liquid Globules , and Blood-corpuscles .
" Since that time other departments of physiology have occupied my attention ; and I have only been induced to recur to the old theme because I find that , in some recent references to the history of this subject , my observations have not been mentioned , from which I am led to infer either that my views had not been sufficiently put forward , or that my experiments had failed to produce conviction in others .
I therefore now present the result of a renewed investigation , in which believe I have established , by conclusive experiments , the correctness of my explanation of the phenomena .
Among the various modes of aggregation which the blood-corpuscles undergo , two typical forms stand prominently forward , of which all others are merely modifications .
The one appears to be dependent upon the normal disk-shape , the other upon the globular or spherical form which the corpuscles assume on the addition of various substances to the blood , such as gum , gelatine , linseed mucilage , potash , &amp;c. With the first of these modes of aggregation , viz. into rouleaux , we are all sufficiently familiar ; and an excellent notion of the character of the second form may be obtained by a careful examination of microphotographs of the blood-corpuscles which have been obtained instantaneously by exploding magnesium in heated oxygen* .
In order to leave as little as possible to hypothesis , it was desirable as a preliminary step to make sure that these differences in form of the corpuscles were the real cause of the diverse modes of arrangement-whether , in fact , we could safely predicate that disk-shaped bodies having an attraction for each other would arrange themselves so as to form rolls or cylindrical masses , and whether , on the other hand , attracting spheres of soft material would attach themselves together in such a fashion as to cause plane surfaces to be opposed to each other-in a word , to convert themselves by mutual attraction into polyhedral bodies just as they might do under mutual compression .
In the first place , we had to ascertain experimentally how disk-shaped bodies , having the utmost freedom of movement , and possessing an attraction for each other , would arrange themselves .
In casting about for the conditions to make such an experiment , I remembered a very familiar phenomenon which had often excited my curiosity , viz. the rapidity with which a bubble or a small floating fragment upon the surface of a cup of tea or other liquid rushes to the side of the containing vessel , or with which two such bubbles or fragments rush together , the moment they approach within a certain range .
I determined to see if I could not make use of this attraction , the true nature of which I at the time imperfectly understood , and with this object prepared a number of circular disks of cork , which I accurately poised so that they should assume and maintain the vertical position when partially immersed in liquid .
On throwing these disks into liquid , I had the satisfaction of seeing them run together and form themselves into the most perfect rouleaux after the fashion of the blood-disks .
This experiment has the value of demonstrating that if the blooddisks attracted each other , their shape would determine the formation of rouleaux .
As regards the behaviour of spherical vesicles or globules which attract each other , it is found that the moment any point in their convex surfaces is made to touch , these surfaces become flattened , and consequently bubbles in a group convert each other into polyhedral-shaped bodies .
This effect is not due to compression , but to a progressive mutual attraction of the surfaces of these bodies for each other .
As soap-bubbles are vesicles with airial contents , and are therefore physically unlike the blood-corpuscles , it became desirable to ascertain how vesicles with liquid contents would behave in regard to each other .
This was accomplished by placing in a large test-tube a solution of soap , and upon its surface a stratum of petroleum an inch or so in depth ; the petroleum does not mix with or injure the soap solution , which is the case with most other substances .
A glass tube is now passed through the petroleum into the solution of soap below .
On blowing down the tube , we succeed in forming innumerable small bodies or corpuscles of a spherical form , which are very plastic , and the contents of which consist of petroleum , and the external envelope or vesicle of soap .
Corpuscles so produced float in the upper stratum of petroleum , and are found to unite themselves into groups and masses in precisely the manner of the air-bubbles , although they are entirely submerged in liquid .
These experiments show that disk-shaped bodies , having an attraction for each other , will arrange themselves in rolls or cylindrical masses , and that spherical bodies of a plastic character and vesicular structure , be their contents aerial or liquid , will attach themselves together in such a fashion as to cause plane surfaces to be opposed to each other-in a word , convert themselves by a progressive attraction , which commences at their points of mutual contact , into groups of polyhedral bodies .
The question now remaining is , do the blood-corpuscles possess such attractions for each other as those displayed by the objects with which we have been dealing ?
The reply is that their physical nature being analogous , if the same conditions exist , they cannot escape the influence of the same law .
An examination of the photographs and of the drawings of blood-corpuscles exhibited will serve to show that these bodies are amenable to the law which is concerned in grouping together the bubbles and liquid vesicles .
But in the cases we have heretofore been considering , the disks , bubbles , and other factitious objects are not in precisely the same conditions as the blood-corpuscles the former being only partially , or not at all submerged in liquid , while the latter are entirely so , and nevertheless they run together into rouleaux and groups .
It may fairly be asked if the artificial bodies will do the same .
The answer obtained by experiment is , that the moment these disks or bubbles are entirely submerged , they lose at once their attraction for each other and fall apart .
For several years I unceasingly asked myself the cause of this difference in behaviour .
I at length found that when small bodies , such as disks of cork or gelatine , are first wetted with water , and then submerged in a liquid with which water will not mix , such as oil of turpentine or petroleum , they will run together in piles or rouleaux , very much in the same way as the blood-disks .
To understand this result , a few simple primary principles must be called to mind .
In the first place , the particles which compose any liquid have a mutual attraction for each other ; but between the particles which compose different liquids a mutual repulsion may exist , e. g. water and oil , or chloroform and water .
It is likewise true that there is a mutual attraction between certain liquid and rigid bodies , and also a mutual repulsion between others .
Any rigid body which can be wetted by a liquid is regarded as having a cohesive attraction for it , while one which cannot be wetted is said to have no such attraction , or to exert a repulsive influence , as the case may be .
These phenomena therefore depend upon what might be justly termed double cohesion-cohesion in the first place between the rigid body and the liquid , and in the second place between the particles of the liquid itself .
If , now , we examine into the cases in which we have complete submergence , viz. the blood-rolls , the gelatine disks , and the loaded cork disks , we find the same law to be in operation .
These bodies must all be regarded as localizers of liquids , either by their cohesive attraction for liquids , or , as in the case of the blood-corpuscles , by being receptacles containing liquids .
If the cork disks , bubbles , or other bodies are entirely submerged in water , all attraction ceases , and this because a cohesive equilibrium is established ; there is no longer any differentiation such as exists between water and air .
If , however , after having wetted these bodies in water , we completely submerge them in a liquid which has a cohesive antagonism to water , or even a liquid which has simply no cohesion for water , which may be known by the insolubility and immiscibility of one liquid in the other , such as turpentine or petroleum , we get the phenomena of attraction precisely as in the atmosphere .
This fact is illustrated by taking the cork disks from the water in which they are non-adherent , and placing them in the vessel of petroleum , in which they become instantly attractive of each other .
This principle is further illustrated by the gelatine disks , which are first made to absorb as much water as possible , and are then submerged in petroleum .
In all these cases there are present , therefore , two dissimilar or antagonistic liquids ; and upon the presence of these the phenomena depend .
My idea of the blood-corpuscle is that its contents are something essentially different , so far as cohesive attraction is concerned , from the liquor sanguinis-that is to say , not readily miscible with liquor sanguinis .
This is of course self-evident , if , according to some modern views , we regard the corpuscles " as tiny lumps of a uniformly viscous matter , " inasmuch as such matter must be insoluble in and immiscible with the liquor sanguinis .
The explanation is equally easy if we accept the old and , I believe , the true view , of the vesicular character of these bodies , as we have only to assume that the envelope is so saturated with the corpuscular contents as practically to act as such contents would themselves act , i. e. to exhibit a greater cohesive attraction for their own particles than for those of the contiguous liquid .
The cohesive power of the blood-corpuscles varies with varying conditions of the liquor sanguinis ; and this is doubtless due to the law of osmosis ; for we can readily imagine that when the exosmotic tendency is in excess , the corpuscles will become more adhesive , and , on the contrary , when the endosmotic current prevails , less so .
In any case the increased cohesiveness will be due to the increased extrusion of the corpuscular contents upon the surface .
All , then , that is required in the case of the blood-corpuscles , is a difference between their liquid contents and the plasma in which they are submerged .
That this difference is not so great as between the liquids used in these experiments is probable ; but it must also be remembered that the attraction is , not so powerful .
The power required to attach the bloodcorpuscles together is , on account of their exceeding minuteness , extremely small , as they are thus so much more removed from the influence of gravitation , and brought under that of molecular attraction .
I shall conclude this paper by a brief reference to inflammatory stasis .
In one of my papers(communicated to the Royal Societyin 1862 ) I described no less than four distinct forms of stasis .
I proposed to designate that induced by irritation homogeneous stasis , because the blood-corpuscles become so blended together as to entirely lose their outlines and present the appearance of a uniform and continuous plug filling up the capillaries .
This peculiar blending of the corpuscles is dependent upon the law I have been describing , viz. that of double cohesion , and is brought about by diminished quantity of liquor sanguinis in a part in proportion to the corpuscles , and by loss of fluidity in that which remains .
One of the primary effects of irritation is neural paralysis of the minute arteries which supply capillary tracts ; and this paralysis gives rise to increased diosmotic action , in fact to exudation of liquor sanguinis ; consequently there is a lagging behind of the corpuscles , and an increase of their numbers in the capillaries ; the plasma , too , which still surrounds the corpuscles in the capillaries , is modified ; and when a certain relation has been reached between the corpuscles and the plasma , the former blend together precisely in the same manner as the soap-bubbles , or as the blood-corpuscles exhibited in the photographs .
This completely arrests the passage of blood through the capillaries , which become as much occluded as if blocked up by solid fibrin .
I have frequently had opportunities of watching in the transparent webs of frogs the mode in which this homogeneous stasis is resolved .
In these creatures the restoration of the circulation commences some hours after the application of the irritant .
When the circulation is about to be resumed , the stagnating mass in the vessel appears to thaw as it were .
The corpuscles are not pushed onwards in mass as a coherent plug ; but the homogeneity of appearance is suddenly lost by the resumption of their normal form by the corpuscles and the reappearance of their differentiating outlines , which were previously obscured by their blending with one another and with the walls of the vessels .
Before this takes place , the vessel very gradually assumes a lighter tint , passing in some instances from a deep red to a pale orange .
This appears to be due to a washing away of extruded colouringmatter .
When this change from homogeneity to heterogeneity commences , although sufficiently progressive in its character as it traverses the vessel , it nevertheless takes place with considerable rapidity .
It is evidently brought about by the gradual permeation of new liquor sanguinis among the corpuscles , and the contemporaneous abolition of their cohesive attraction for each other in accordance with the principles previously established .

