" On the Embryogeny of Comatula rosacea ( Linck ) .
" By Professor WYVILLE THOMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S , E. , M.R.I.A. , F.G.S. &amp;c. Communicated by Professor HUXLEY .
Received December 29 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) After briefly abstracting Dr. W. Busch 's description of the early stages in the growth of the young of Comatula , the author details his own observations , carried on during the last four years , on the development and subsequent changes of the larva .
After complete segmentation of the yelk , a more consistent nucleus appears within the mulberry mass still contained within the vitelline membrane .
The external more transparent flocculent portion of the yelk liquefies and is absorbed into this nucleus , which gradually assumes the form of the embryo larva , a granular cylinder contracted at either end and girded with four transverse bands of cilia .
This cylinder increases in size till it nearly fills the vitelline sac , gradually increasing in transparency , and ultimately consisting of delicately vacuolated sarcode , the external surface transparent and studded with pyriform oil-cells , the inner portion semifluid and slightly granular .
The vitelline membrane now gives way , and , usually shortly after the escape of the larva into the water , the third ciliated band from the anterior extremity arches forwards at one point ; and in the space thus left between it and the fourth band , a large pyriform depression indi cates the position of the larval mouth .
At the same time a small round aperture , merely separated from the posterior margin of the mouth by the last ciliated band , becomes connected with the mouth by a short loop-like canal passing under the band , and fulfils the function of an excreting-orifice .
A tuft of long cilia , which have a peculiar undulatory motion , is developed at the posterior extremity of the body .
The larva now increases rapidly in size , assuming somewhat the form of a kidney bean , the mouth answering in position to the hilum .
It swims freely in the water , with a swinging semirotatory motion , by means of its ciliated bands and posterior tuft of cilia .
Shortly after the larva has attained its definite independent form , ten minute calcareous spicula make their appearance , imbedded within the external sarcode-layer of the expanded anterior portion of the larva .
The ten spicula are arranged in two transverse rings of five , the spicula of the anterior row symmetrically superposed on those of the posterior .
By the extension of calcareous network , these spicula rapidly expand into ten plates , which at length form a trellis enclosing a dodecahedral space , open above and below , within the anterior portion of the zooid .
Simultaneously with the appearance of these plates , a series of from seven to ten calcareous rings form a chain passing from the base of the posterior row of plates backwards , curving slightly to the left of the larval mouth , and ending by abutting against the centre of a large cribriform plate , which is rapidly developed close to the posterior extremity of the larva .
Delicate sheaves of anastomosing calcareous trabeculae shortly arise within these rings , and the series declares itself as the jointed stem of the pentacrinoid stage , the basal and first interradial plates of the calyx being represented by the already formed casket of calcareous network .
The skeleton of the Crinoid is thus completely mapped out within the body of the larva , while the latter still retains its independent form and special organs .
Within the plates of the calyx of the nascent Crinoid two hemispherical or reniform masses may now be detected , -one superior , of a yellowish , subsequently of a chocolate colour ; the other inferior , colourless and transparent .
The lower hemisphere indicates the permanent alimentary canal of the Crinoid , with its glandular follicle ; the upper mass originates the central ring of the ambulacral system , with its craca passing to the arms .
The body of the Crinoid is , how ever , at this stage entirely closed in by a dome of sarcode , forming the anterior extremity of the larva .
After swimming about freely for a time , averaging from eight hours to a week , and increasing rapidly in size till it has attained a lengh of from 1 to 2 millims. , the larva becomes sluggish , and its form is distorted by the growing Crinoid .
The mouth and alimentary canal of the larva disappear , and the external sarcode-layer subsides round the calcareous framework of the included embryo , forming for it a transparent perisom .
The stem now lengthens by additions of trabeculm to the ends of the joints .
The posterior extremity dilates into a disk of attachment .
The anterior extremity becomes expanded , then slightly cupped ; the lip of the cup is divided into five crescentic lobes corresponding to the plates of the upper ring ; and finally five delicate tubes , ceca from the ambulacral circular canal , are protruded from the centre of the cup , the rudiments of the arms of the Pentacrinoid .
At some stage during the progress of these later changes the embryo adheres , and at length becomes firmly cemented to some permanent point of attachment .
The author states his views as to the morphological and physiological relations of the larval zooid .
He believes that all the peculiar independently organized zooids developed from the whole or from a part of the segmented yelk in the Echinoderms , and which form no stage in the development of the perfect form of the species , must be regarded as assimilative extensions of sarcode , analogous in function to the embryonic absorbent appendages in the higher animals .
For such an organism the term " pseudembryo " is proposed .
In the Echinoderm subkingdom , although constructed apparently upon a common plan , these pseudembryos present considerable range of organization , from a somewhat complex zooid provided with elaborate natatory fringes , with a system of vessels which are ultimately connected with the ambulacral vascular system of the embryo , with a well-developed digestive tract , and in some instances with special nervous ganglia , to a simple layer of absorbent and irritable ' sarcode which invests the nascent embryo .
The pseudembryo of Comatula holds an intermediate position .
It resembles very closely in external form and in subsequent metamorphosis the " pupa stage ?
' of the Holothuridse , the great distinction between them being that in the Holothuridee the pupa has already passed through the more active " Auricularian " stage , while the analogous form in Comatula has been developed directly from the egg .

