Philosoph. Transact. N~.367 .
FIG. I. E E C D A C FIG. III .
B DD B E FE E B DBA C A FIG. II .
A ~a AC~ DA B H GI FF D A J. shirt sculp I. An Account of a Faetus , that continued 46 Years in the Mother 's Body .
Communicated by Dr. Steigertahl , Honorary Fellow of the College of Physicians , and Fellow of the Royal Society .
ANna Mullern , a Woman of the Village of Leinzelle near Gemund in Suabia , of a dry and lean Constitution , but otherwise healthful and robust , died at the Age of 94 , after she had lived a Widow 40 Years .
Six and forty Years before her death she declared herself to be with Child , and had all the usual Tokens of Pregnancy .
At the end of her reckoning the Waters came away , and she was taken with the pains of Labour , which continued upon her about seven Weeks , and then went off upon the use of some Medicines given her by a Surgeon .
Some time after this she recovered her perfect Health , except only that her Belly continued swelled , and that now and then upon any Exercise she felt a little pain in the lower part of it .
She was after this twice brought to bed , the first time of a Son , who is now a Huntsman at Bischoffshein , and afterwards of a Daughter , who is married to a Soldier .
But notwithstanding this , she was firmly persuaded , that she was not yet delivered of what she first went with , and desired Dr. Wobnlixe the Physician of Gemund , and one Knaussen a Surgeon at Heubach , to open her Body after her death .
Accordingly after her Death , which happened on the 11th of March 1720 , after four days illness , her body was opened by the Surgeon , the Physician before-mention 'd being then dead .
He found within her a hard mass of the form and size of a large Ninepin-Bowl , but had not the precaution to observe , whether it lay in the Uterus , or without it , and for want of better Instruments broke it open with a blow of a Hatchet .
This Ball with the Contents of it , are expressed in the following Figures .
Plate I. Fig. I. AA part of the Tegument , which had adhered to a spongious fleshy Substance .
This at first seemed to be a Mass of Cartilage , but was afterwards found to be entirely bony .
B. B. B. C. C. C. Shows the membranous Part , which was bloody .
D. D. D. D. The opening made by the Hatchet .
E. E. E. E. E. Another part of the Tegument appearing entirely bony , with several prominences .
F. A. Contusion occasioned by the rude manner of opening it , where there appeared some putrified Membranes .
Fig. II .
A. A. A. The Tegument , or Substance enclosing the Faetus .
B. The Faetus .
C. A depression , or hollowness on the right Cheek .
~ .
The Nose turning up .
~ .
The Mouth flatted , but not so wide , as it is here represented .
~ .
The Eye closed up .
~ .
The Ear .
D. D. The Arms , of which the right was the larger , and the two Joints of that Thumb were plainly to E. The protuberance of the Knee .
F. Part of the Funiculus Umbilicalis torn , but still adhering to the Navel .
G. G. Part of the same Funiculus , fastened to the bony part of the Tegument .
H. The Breast .
I. The mark of an Incision into the left side , where the Flesh appeared red , but was dry , and looked like smoaked Beef .
Fig. III .
Represents two Ribs from the left Side , of their natural Substance , colour and bigness .
A. A. The part joining to the Vertebrae .
B. B. to the Sternum .
This Piece is preserved in the Cabinet of Rarities of his most Serene Highness the Duke of Wirtemberg .
Dr. Camerarius , Professor at Tubingen , in a Letter upon this Subject , takes notice , that the Surgeon found this Mass in a cavity on the Woman 's left side , and that it adhered to the Membranes of that cavity by the intervention of a spongious , fleshy Substance .
From which particular , and the Woman 's having had two Children during the time that this large Mass lay in her , that learned Professor conjectures , that it was not lodged in the Womb , but in the left Falloppian Tube , which by this means had been very much dilated and thickned in its Substance .

