]\gt ; The Demarcation Current of mmalian l The Demarcation Current of Mammalian Nerve .
( Preliminary Communication .
) III .
The Demarcation Source and the Concentration Law.\ldquo ; ' By J. S. MACDONALD , B.A. , University College , Liverpool , Research Scholar of the British Medical ssociation .
Communicated by Professor TON , F.R.S. Received October 18 , 1900 .
Since writing the previous statement the changes of E. .
occurring during the early part of the time spent in saline solutions ave been studied more in detail , the nerves being removed every five mlnutes for examination .
As a result of information so acquired , the following statement can be definitely made .
Solutions of NaOH , HC1 , , KC1 mainly affect the demonstrable value of the demarcation source according to their concentration , and differ intrinsically from one another in their effects upon this source only in minor istics .
Each of these eleotrolytes produces an effect which is best regarded as a variation of the effect of water , and varies with the concentration according to a simple law .
The concentration in each case determines whether the initial value of the demonstrable E.M.F. shall be increased , maintained , or diminished .
A study of the comparative effects of various concentrations of the same electrolyte is of particular interest when the nerve is only immersed for a short period ( iive minutes ) , presumably because wlthlll this period processes of diffusion interfere least with the concentration of electrolytes in the internal parts of the nerve .
The concentration law found to unite the efl.ects of tions of , HC1 is comparatively simple , the case of solutions of being apparently more oomplex .
If ' ' \ldquo ; rspresents the initial of the " " \ldquo ; the value after an immersion of 5 ' duration in a solution of concentration " " " " \ldquo ; the concentration in gramme-molcculcs per litre , then in the special case of solutions of KC1 Elog tely .
Thus , taking the from four experiments performed upon 5 cm .
pieces of sciatic nclVCS ( cat ) , detcrmining the ) .
betwoen cross section and longitudinal surface immediately upon from the recently killed animal , and ( b ) after an immersion of solution of KC1 at C. :\mdash ; VOL. LXVI 2 1 } Mr. J. S. Macdonald .
Experiments with Solutions of Concentration E.M.F. recovered , .
in terms of the per .
per litre .
initial value E. 1. .
Elog 3.72 . .
The law the effects of solutions of is not very different , as is shown by examination of the results of the following experiments made before the relation was discovered .
The results this case one the less remarkable in so far as the concentrations of the solutions used bear no simple proportion to the normal of 1 granune-molecule per litre per cent Experiments with solutions of Concentration .
E.M.F. recovered , Grammes Gramme-moIs .
in per cent. per litre .
the initial value .
( 1 .
) Elog ( 2 .
) 0.6 .
Elog 8.3 ( 3 .
) 0.9 Elog Elog 2.2 Elog 0.97 Presuming the law connecting these results to ) \ldquo ; then the concentration multiplied by the number of hich the logarithm is the proportion between the final initial of the E.M.F. , should equal mity .
Thus ( 1 .
) ( 2 .
) ( 4 .
) ( 5 .
) of It is obvious that the laYv as stated approximately reprcsents the truth in the case of and KC1 solutions .
In how far the approximation is different in the two cases must be left to the consideration of further and more exact experiments .
That a similar law is for solutions of HC1 is shown by the following experiments .
The stock laboratory solntion of .
cent. HC1 was dilnted , \amp ; 7c .
, to obtain the required variations of concentration .
Experiments with solutions of Concenlration .
Grammes -mols .
telms of per cent. per litre .
valuc .
( 1 .
) .
Elog ( 2 .
) 0.1 . .
Elog 4 In this case presumin the statement of the to be ' then in Casc ( 1 .
) .ll ( 4 .
) 290.4 0 .
11 The law in this case is It is that in the considcred is amply where and ) are conslallts .
The interest attached to this modc of the is } upon refcrenoe to the of conccutration cells , to be and the occurrenoe of the nnot ) otherwise regarded Proceedings .
valuable confirmation of the reality of the assumption made as to the nature of the demarcation source of the nerve .
Taking the simplest expression for the value of the E.M.F. of such a cell , in which there are two solutions of different concentrations and of the same electrolyte at the same temperature , Klog If in such a cell the solution of concentration \ldquo ; is retained constant , whereas the solution of concentration " " \ldquo ; is given different values , \amp ; c. , and If is constant , and also if the original relation of the two solutions is treated as a constant , we have E. and this is the relation found existing between che value of the demarcation source of the nerve before ( E ) and after the immersion of the nerve in a solution of concentration November 15 , 1900 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Sir Ford North , Professor J. Bretland Farmer , Dr. Patrick Manson , and Professor James Walker were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statntes , notice of the ensuing Meeting was given from the Chair .
Professor J. D. Everett , Dr. J. H. Gladstone , and Dr. B. H. Scott were by ) elccted Auditors of the 's accounts on the part ( of the Socicty .
The following Papers the Recess , and pnblished or

