XV .
" On the Aurora .
" By REUBEN PHILLIPS , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 7 , 1856 .
In this paper the author enters into various speculations as to the formation and motion of auroral arches .
Since it has been found by experiment that the maximum length of the voltaic arc with a given battery is nearly the same in atmospheric air and in highly rarefied air , forming a very perfect vacuum , the author conceives that a streamer begins as a disruptive discharge of finite and very moderate length , ( the maximum length very nearly of a continuous discharge , ) which starts upwards from the auroral arch , which he regards as the discharging train .
If this first portion be not parallel to the dipping-needle , it is moved laterally by virtue of the earth 's magnetism , and thus wrenched , as it were , from the spot where it was formed , and extinguished .
If , however , the discharge , or any portion of it , be parallel to the dipping-needle , it is not influenced by the earth 's magnetism , and remains .
To this first length another length may be added by a similar process , and so on , these successive lengths being all parallel to the direction of the first , since otherwise the streamer would be torn asunder by the lateral motion resulting from the earth 's magnetism .
Thus a straight streamer extends upwards in a direction parallel to the dipping-needle .
If , from some increase in the power of conduction of the arch , the base of the streamer be not necessarily confined to a single spot , then a streamer may be formed which is somewhat inclined to the dippingneedle ; but the consecutive elements of such a streamer must be in the same direction , otherwise they would have different lateral motions , the streamer would be divided , and the discharge would cease .
The streamer , as a whole , will move from east to west , or from west to east , according to circumstances .
Those streamers which would tend to move north or south cannot exist , because their bases would be severed from the auroral arch .
If the discharge take place in air not so very highly rarefied , so that the disruptive discharge is not quite of its maximum length , consecutive elements need not be quite in the same direction in order that the streamer may be unbroken , and thus curved streamers may be formed .
It is stated by M. Biot that such have sometimes been observed .
The author then enters into some speculations as to the nature of the auroral arch , which he conceives to consist of nebulous matter highly charged with electricity , and accounts , according to his views , for the motion of such arches from the pole towards the equator .
The remainder of the paper is occupied with speculations as to the nature of fire-ball lightning , and other subjects relating to ordinary electricity .

