c dAh a b IIa C VIII .
Fig. IIII V VI VII .
12 1 .
2i~3t23 324 4324753 5326 4X 6 IX .
bh Fig XI dc cabag Ib IddC dI a ag aaa a fB BKRL R ELEF QF HMMQA A Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
IV .
A Description of the Organ of Hearing in the Elephant , with the Figures and Situation of the Ossicles , Labyrinth and Cochlea in the Ear of that large Animal .
Communicated to the Royal Society , by Dr. Patrick Blair , R. S. S. IN the Description I formerly wrote to the Honoured Sir Hans Sloane , Bart. of the Elephant I Dissected in ~ , ~ 1706 .
which he was pleased to Communicate to the RoyalSociety , as you have it in Philos. Trans. No. 226 227 .
I treated of the Bony part of the Ear of that prodigious Animal a little too superficially : because I was unwilling at that time to break up the Os Petrosum of the right Ear , which had accidentally been separated on dividing of the Scull , by which the account I then gave of the Lineae Semilunares , or Labyrinth and Cochlea was but Lame .
But I have chosen since rather to destroy that Bone ( however seldom such Bones are to be met with ) than that the Public should be deprived of an exact Description of that curious Organ , and that I may give a clear Idea of all its Bony parts , I shall repeat what I formerly advanced upon that Subject , and add what Improvements I have made upon it since .
Before I proceed , it is fit I observe that the Auris Externus of this big Creature lies flat , and not Protuberent as in other Quadrupeds , whose Cartilaginous Substance is capable of divers Motions performed by several Muscles , whereby the inner Ear is preserved from the great violence of the External Air , which upon some occasions might perhaps injure or break the thin and delicate Membrane of the Tympanum .
It is also for this reason that the Meatus is further guarded , by the Contorsions and oblique Position of the Cartilage at the Orifice of the Meatus , which only admits of a determinate quantity of Air , sufficient for the vi~ bration of the Membrana Tympani , by which a distinct sound is conveyed to the Sensorium commune ; whereas did the Air admitted exceed its due proportion , nothing but the confused Idea of a Sound would follow , such as resemble the rushing of Waters , &amp;c. or that noise often observed when , by a supervenient Cold or the like , obstructions are generated within the Ear it self .
And in Man , because the Auris externus is also flat , not only are these turnings and windings observable in the Cartilage at the entry , but the Meatus it self is likewise obliquely Situated , to prevent the aforesaid inconveniences .
But there is no need for such a contrivance in the Elephant , whose external Orifice of the Meatus is patulent , open ( scarce being guarded by the Cartilage ) and straight , whose length ( it reaching from the external to the internal Table of the Scull ) is sufficient to prevent the accession of too great a quantity of Air to the Tympanum ; for in its progress most of the Columnae Aeris beat against one or other of the sides of the Meatus , in so much that their force is inhibited , and only so many as suffice to convey the Sound , can reach the Tympanum it self .
The Meatus Auditorius then is a long straight Tube or Canule situated Horizontally , and reaching from the outer to the inner Table of the Scull , in Figure not unlike the Barrel of a Pistol , but somewhat Oval , the sides of whose Cavity are hard and solid , about the thickness of a Halfpenny , from whose outer Part several of the Laminae betwixt the two Tables of the Scull do arise , ( Fig. I. ) Its Cavity is an Inch or 3/ 4 of an Inch Diameter , and length 9 1/ 2 Inches ; being somewhat enlarged as it arrives at the Crena for the Membrana Tympani .
( Fig. II .
) Meatus Auditorius .
This Crena is two Inches in Circumserence , within which is the Cavitas Tym~ pani , consisting of two different Surfaces ; the one much deeper and Cellulous , the other more superficial and Smooth .
The first runs perpendicularly down 1/ 2 Inch from the Crena Tympani .
Its bottom is variously divided into several Celluls , not unlike a Honey Comb , but irregularly disposed .
Its Bony Laminae , by which these Celluses are distinguished from each other , are thicker at the Top than at the Bottom , they being one Line , two Lines , or 1 1/ 2 Line distant from each other , and about 1/ 4 Inch deep .
Could I have got it so well cleansed as I wished for , doubtless I might have observed their Communication with each other , by means of certain Orifices which serve to convey what superY yyyyy fluous ~ and Cavitas Tympani .
fiuous Moisture is contained in them for we may reasonably suppose , as in all other Cavities of the Body , there are certain Glands for separating proper Liquors convenient for the uses designed ; so here there seems to be a necessity for separating a certain quantity of Moisture , fit to lubrifie the Muscles of the Ossicles , and facilitate their Motion ; as also to preserve the Membrana Tympani from becoming too dry .
This dryness of the Membrana Tympani , and the thickness of the Liquor separated by these Glands , is often the cause of a Deafness in Human Subjects ; especially those that are advanced in Age .
This cellulous Structure of the Cavitas Tympani , seems to be very proper for receiving of the superfluous Humidity ; and these Communications are requisite for conveying it from one Cellule to another , till it is emptied into the Receptaculum Commune the Aqueduct .
whereof hereafter .
This first or cellulous Cavity is two Inches broad , and reaches from the Crena Tympani to the foramen Ovale , or entry into the Vestibulum , which is shut by the Stapes .
The second Part of this Cavity is more superficial ( Fig. II .
( e ) , in form not unlike a Pear , from a narrow beginning becoming broader and more superficial , terminating Semicircularly , smooth in the Bottom , and having several incurvated Lines running across it ; it reaches much farther than the Vestibulum , being one Inch five Lines from before to behind , and one Inch transversly where broadest .
What superfluous Moisture it contains is discharged into the fore-named Aqueduct .
Beside the above-mentioned uses for these two Cavities , viz. to receive and discharge the superfluous Moisture ; they are also most beneficial and assisting to the Hearing : for , no sooner is the external Air modulated , and the Membrana Tympani moved thereby , than the Sound is conveyed by the Ossicles to the Nervus Auditorius , and the Undulation continued , first by the Anfractuosities of the first Cavity , and then by the Gyres and incurvated Lines of the second , so that we may easily account for the acute Sensation of Hearing , wherewith Elephants are said to be endowed : For as the Tame ones are most exact in obeying their Masters commands ; so the wild Ones are soon aware of what Traps or Snares are laid to catch them , by the tremulous Motion conveyed to their Ear from the Cavous parts of the Earth , where the Pit into which it is expected they should fall , is dug .
It is easy therefore to explain whence the acuteness of the Sensation of this Animal may proceed ; for as the Nervus Olfactorius has a large Space and Bounds wherein to be dispersed , viz. the two Cavities of the Proboscis , which are both long and large , so that scarce any Columna aeris can enter them , but some one or another of the Filaments of the Nervus Olfactorius dispersed in these Cavities must be touched , whereby the Idea of smelling must be conveyed to the Sensorium commune in a more intense Degree , and the Animal soon become sensible of whatever approaches that is noxious or nauseous to it , and thereby is taught how to avoid it ; so this Structure , for a quick conveyance and long continuance of the Sound , is a great means both to make the Elephant soon receive the Sound and have a deep impression of it .
The Aqueduct is a flat Tube or Pipe , whose Orifice is so situated betwixt the two forementioned Cavities , that if there be any superfluous Humidity contained in them , it must needs be discharged ( at least in this Animal ) into the Mouth ; for as it is situated where the first Cavity terminates , so the second , from a broader and more superficial bay yyyyy2 ginning , ginning must needs discharge its Moisture , by its more narrow and deeper termination , into this receptacle ; also it descends directly towards the Mouth , passing through the Scull below the hole for the Jugular Vein ( mm ) betwixt the hole for the Carotid Artery , ( pp ) and that for the Arteria durae matris ( qq ) whence descending ( nn ) it is joyn~d with its Fleshy part , which discharges it self into the Mouth on each side , behind the back part of the inner Teeth of the upper Jaw .
This situation of the Aqueduct makes it plainly appear , that its Use is to receive the superfluous Moisture from the Cavitas Tympani ; for beside the Glands above-mentioned , fit for separating such a quantity of Humidity as may lubrifie the Muscles and facilitate both their Motion and that of the Ossicles ; the very Vapours that arise in such a Cavity as that of the Tympanum in this Animal , must at last be converted into a Liquor , and that must either again be received into the Blood Vessels , or otherwise discharged by such a Receptacle as this .
Further if there be a necessity for Glands in the Meatus Auditorius without the Tympanum , to separate a certain Liquor , by which the acrimonious Particles of the Air are obtunded , and hindred from being offensive to the Nervous Membrane of the Tympanum , ( which must be of a most acute Sensation ) and for moistning it , by which it the more easily receives the Vibration of the Air ; so such Glands as these seem to be most requisite in the Cavitas Tympani for the Uses above named .
And since what superabounds of this Moisture , cannot be discharged outwardly as that of the Meatus , this Aqueduct seems to be most convenient for that purpose .
Some are of opinion that this Aqueduct is also assisting to the Hearing , especially in Men ; because it is generally observed that ~ Elephantina , or Philos. Transact. No. 327 .
that they who are Deaf , open their Mouths wide , when they are desirous to hear more distinctly : But I see not how that can be , for tho ' the Cavity of the Bony part of the Aqueduct , in most of Animals , is proportionally large enough ; yet its carnous or fleshy Part lies for the most part so flat , and its two sides are so collaps 'd together , that scarce any Air can be admitted , at least so far as to be subservient to the Hearing .
The Ossicles in this as in other Animals are three or rather four in number ; for though I did not procure the Os quadrangulare of Du Verney , yet I have good reason to believe it was there ; because there is a conspicuous Sinus in the extremity both of the Incus and Stapes , where they are articulated , so big as to contain the Head of an ordinary Pin ; and when I consider the Angle which must have been formed by the articulation of these two Bones , I look upon this small Bone to serve for the same purposes as the patella in the Knee , and Sesamoide Bones in the Fingers and Toes .
The four Bones of the Ear .
The Malleolus is an irregular Bone , and doubtless has been endowed with pretty large Muscles , because of the rugosities , protuberances and Sinu 's observable in it .
It has a protuberant Head ( Fig. IV .
( 1 ) four Lines broad , next to that a Crena or semicircular Sinus , ( 2 ) after which the Bone is raised , affording a protuberant Margin to an oblong Sinus ( 3 ) for receiving the head of the Incus , four Lines broad .
The opposite part of this Sinus , or back part of the Bone , is convex of an unequal rugous Surface , with a great many protuberances and depressions , for the Origins and insertions of the Muscles , for the space of five Lines ; where it forms an Angle , from whence it becomes Flat and Smooth , being three Lines broad and reaching four Line ~ Lines to another Angle , ( 5 .
) where the Manubrium Malleoli begins , and where it becomes more round ; from whence it gradually Tapers to the Point , being six Lines in length .
The head of the Incus is four Lines broad , ( Fig. VI .
( 1 ) below which is the Neck or an oblique Sinus ; ( 2 ) next to that are two Apophyses , one on each side .
These descending obliquely outwards , and becoming flat , meet in a Point , ( Fig. VII .
( 5 .
) whence ascending obliquely inward , this Production is joined to another small round one , like the Manubrium Malleoli 4 1/ 2 Lines long ( 6 .
) This has the fore-mentioned small excavation or half round Sinus , ( 7 .
) which with the extremity of the Stapes , I suppose to have contained the Os quadrangulare , or rather Orbiculare , according to the Figure of the Sinus .
The Stapes differs much in Figure from the Human one .
From its Concave extremity it is enlarged on each side by two small slender Productions , not unlike the Processes of the Vertebrae of some Fishes ( Fig. VI .
( 2 2 ) to which is joined the Basis , ( 3 .
) so thin almost as the Scale of a Fish .
This was accidentally separated from its two Sides , and remained in the Foramen Ovale , from whence I pulled it with a Pin ; It is Concave towards the Stapes , and Convex toward the Vestibulum .
The Foramen Ovale lies so hid and obliquely in the side of the Cavitas Tympani , that it could not be delineated in its true Dimensions .
Near to it is another hole Oblong and Sharp at both ends , both which give an entry into the Vestibulum .
The Vestibulum is of an irregular Figure , ( Fig. X.(a ) ~tis for the most part three Lines from the one side to the other , and perforated by eight Orifices , viz. five for the Canals of the Labyrinth , ( Fig. IX .
X ( a ) one for the Cochlea , ( Fig. X. ( h ) and two for the Fenestrae ( b , c. ) The Cochlea is a long Cavity consisting of three Gyres or Meanders ; ( Fig. XI .
( d e f ) Its Orifice where it proceeds from the Vestibulum is but small ; but it afterwards widens , so that the first course of this Cavity is a third part larger than the second ( e ) , and proportionally the third is less than the other two ( f ) , till it terminates in an Orifice ( g ) situated in the Top , for receiving a branch of the soft portion of the Nervus Auditorius , which accompanies and passes along all its Gyres .
The hardness and solidity of the Bone ( for which it may be justly called Os Petrosum in this Subject ) was such that I could not so exactly trace the three Canals or Ducts of the Labyrinth , so as to give a true Idea of the manner of their several Turnings .
But Valsalva 's Figures of the Humane Ear directed me so exactly , that I easily found out the several Orifices , and opened them so far as to find out their situation and true Dimensions , by introducing a Hogs bristle , then cutting it off and stretching it out to the Scale .
Thus after laying open the two Foramina which gave an inlet to the Vestibulum , I soon perceived the several Orifices which in so large a Subject were pretty conspicuous .
I first turned to the one hand and discovered the Duct of the Cochlea ; this I pursued all along the Protuberance , ( Fig. III .
( d ) in doing of which I laid wholly open the ~ Duct of the Labyrinth .
( Fig. IX .
X. ( d ) Then turning up the other side of the Bone , I traced the soft Portion of the Nervus Auditorius divided into two Branches , one whereof was distributed into the Cochlea , and the other to the Labyrinth .
In filing the Bone a little further , I opened a small part of the Middle Duct , and in a short time I discovered the Ductus Major ; after which I measured their several lengths as is said .
The Labyrinth then consists of three Lineae Semilunares or incurvated Ducts , whereof the Major lies in that part of the Processus Petrosus which regards the seat of the Brain ( b ) This is twenty Lines or one Inch eight Lines long .
The Medius Ductus , one part whereof regards the Orifice of the Cochlea , and the other is common with the Major for the space of three Lines ; ( e ) this is fifteen Lines ~ one Inch three Lines long : And the Minor which regards the Cavitas Tympani , has one Orifice which is near to the Medius , were it approaches the Cochlea ; and the other near to the Orifice of the Major .
This is one Inch long .
Labyrinth .
The seventh pair of Nerves called in general the Nervus Auditorius , enters the ~ Petrosus , and is divided into the hard and soft Portions , as in other Animals .
~ this Subject I find one Canule entring the Bone from the sides of the Orifice for the Carotide Artery , about three Lines diameter , ( e ) ( h ) from thence running forward for the space of one Inch four Lines , then bending downwards one Inch till it meets with the Orifice at the Sides of the Meatus Auditorius , by which it pierces the Scull , and passes outward .
This Canule , after it is entered the ~ Petrosus for the space of eight Lines , communicates with the Orifice which usually enters the foresaid Process from the Base of the Scull ; and both these Orifices , after they have accompanied one another about five Lines , are separated , and the soft Portion penetrates the Bone at two places , as is said .
~ .
Eleph .
Tab. 3 Fig. III .
Fig. IV .
I have now endeavoured to give such a Description of the Osseous or Bony part of the Ear of this stupendious Animal , as I am in hopes may be useful for the clearing up of some Phenomenon in lesser Subjects .
At least we may hereby observe , what a variety of Mechanism the great Author of Nature has thought fit to employ , in the several parts of different Species of Animals .
Thus both the external Ear of Man , and of the Elephant lye flat , as being most convenient : for if they had been Protuberant as in most Quadrupeds , how unsuitable would it have been in Man , who is the most perfect of all Creatures , not upon the account of his Reason alone , but also as he is a Pattern for Beauty and the Symmetry of his Parts ; and how unseemly would it have been in the Elephant , if his external ~ had stuck out , and been proportional to his other Parts ; considering what an extraordinary aspect he makes already by his Trunk and Tusks ?
But the Ears in these two Subjects differ by the tortuosity of the Cartilage , and oblique Meatus , to prevent the injury of the Air , by its immediate access into the inner Ear in Man : whereas in the Elephant the external Orifice is fully exposed to the Air ; but then the length of the Meatus hinders any more Air than is convenient from arriving at the Tympanum .
We likewise see in the Seal and Otter , that those two Amphibious Quadrupeds have no external Ear further protuberant than the other Parts of their Head ; for had it been otherwise , their swimming and diving would have been much hindred : But its two sides are so collaps 'd , that no Water can enter in when in the Deep , though it can receive sufficient Air when ashore .
The cellulous Cavity of the Tympanum in the Elephant , may well be compared to the Apophysis Mastoides in Man ; and the second Cavity of a plain Surface seems to be Analogous to the Cavous Mastoides in Sheep , Cats , Dogs , &amp;c. So that we see that whereas other Animals have but one Cavity for assisting the Vibration of the Air , and continuation of the Sound in the Tympanum ; this Animal has two , or a large one with two different Surfaces .
The Aqueduct both by its Figure and Position in this Animal doth plainly show us the Use of it in other Animals , which is to receive the superfluous Humours in the Tympanum , and convey them to be discharged in the Mouth .
Explication of the FIGURE S. Figure I. REpresents the Bony part of the Meatus Auditorius of the Right Ear .
a The external Orifice of the Meatus Auditorius .
b The Processus Petrosus .
c The Orifice where the Nervus Auditorius enters .
d The Meatus Auditorius .
eA part of the Laminae which proceed from it on each side , by which the Cellules betwixt the two Tables of the Scull are formed ; those situated above the Meatus being removed .
f Part of the inner Table of the Scull .
Fig. II .
Represents part of the Meatus Auditorius opened , with other parts of the inner Ear .
a The ragged part of the Bone from whence the Os Petrosum was separated .
b The Processus Petrosus opened .
c The Crena for the Membrana Tympani .
d The Honey comb Cavity of the Tympanum .
e Its inner Cavity of a smooth Surface .
f Its Semicircular or undulated Lines .
g The Orifice of the Aqueduct .
h The Orifice of the hard Portion of the Nerve .
Fig. III .
Represents the lower Surface of the Os Petrosum , as it was separated from above the Tympanum and other parts of the inner Ear .
aa The ragged Margin of the Bone .
bb The upper part of the Cavitas Tympani .
c The Foramen Ovale .
d The Protuberance in which the Labyrinth and Cochlea are lodged .
e The Orifice of the hard portion of the Nervus Auditorius .
Fig. IV .
Represents the Malleolus a lone in its true dimensions 1 The Protuberant Head .
2 The Semicircular Sinus be~ twixt it and the Margin 3 The Sinus which receives the head of the Incus .
4 The angle below the Sinus for the head of the Incus .
5 The angle where the Manub ium Malleoli begins .
6 The Manubrium Malleoli .
Fig. V. Represents the Incus .
1 The head of the Incus .
2 The Sinus or neck of the Incus .
3 Two Apophyses .
4A long protuberance with the Sinus for the Os quadrangulare at its extremity .
Fig. VI .
Represents the Stapes .
1 The small part of the Stapes , where it is articulated with the Incus , with a Sinus at its extremity , being the other half of the Cavity for the Os quadrangulare .
22 Two small portions of the Stapes , where it is articulated with the Basis .
3 The Basis of the Stapes separated .
4 The whole Stapes .
Fig. VII .
The Malleolus and Incus joined together , with their lower side turned up .
1 The Malleolus .
2 Its articulation with the Incus .
3 The Incus .
4 The Manubrium Malleoli .
5A point of the Incus , framed by the other two Productions .
6 The long protuberance of the Incus .
7 The Sinus in the extremity of its long Production .
Fig. VIII .
The Malleolus , Incus and Stapes articulated together .
1 The Incus .
2 The Malleolus .
3 The Stapes where it shuts the Foramen Ovale .
Fig. IX .
Represents the upper part of the Lineae Semilunares , or that side which is towards the passage of the Nervus Auditorius .
a The five extremities cut off .
b The Linea Semilunaris Major .
The Semilunaris Media d The Minor .
e The common Canule between the Major and Media .
Fig. X. Represents the Cochlea and Labyrinth together .
a The Vestibulum .
b The Foramen Ovale .
c The Foramen Oblongum .
d The Linea Semilunaris Minor , which is towards the Cavitas Tympani .
e The common Canule to the Major and Media .
f The Major .
g The Media h The Cochlea .
Fig. XI .
Represents the Cochlea .
a The Vestibulum .
b The third Gyre or turning .
c The Orifice .
d The first Gyre or turning opened .
e The second turning .
g The Orifice at the top of

