" Contributions to the Chemistry of the Urine ; on the variations in the Alkaline and Earthy Phosphates in the healthy state , and on the Alkalescence of the Urine from fixed Alkali .
" By Henry Bence Jones , M.A. Cantab .
, Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians .
The author , having observed that in some states of disease there occurs in the urine a great excess of the earthy phosphates , was induced to investigate the subject ; and as a preliminary inquiry , to ascertain the variations in the amount of these phosphates at different times in the same person in a state of health , and to trace the causes which determine an excess or a deficiency of these salts in the urine ; noting , at the same time , the variations in the quantity of the alkaline phosphates contained in it , with a view of discovering whether these variations are influenced by the same , or by different causes .
The principal results to which his experiments have conducted him are the following .
The quantity of the earthy phosphates in the urine voided soon after taking food is considerably greater than in that voided at other times ; and this happens whether the meal consists of animal food or of bread only .
After long fasting , the proportion of earthy phosphates is considerably diminished .
On the other hand , the alkaline phosphates are present in greatest quantity when the food consists of bread alone : when meat alone is taken , the deficiency in those salts is still more marked than the excess in the former case .
Exercise occasions no change in the quantity of the earthy phosphates , but causes an increase of nearly one-third in the amount of alkaline phosphates ; but its influence is , on the whole , less than that of diet .
The earthy phosphates are in .
creased in quantity by chloride of calcium , sulphate of magnesia , and calcined magnesia taken into the stomach .
The author next examines the conditions in which the urine is alkalescent , and which he considers to be of two kinds ; the one , long known as ammoniacal , and arising from the presence of carbonate of ammonia ; and the other , which has not hitherto been distinctly recognised , arising from fixed alkali , and appearing most frequently in urine secreted during a period of from two to four hours after breakfast , in persons suffering only from defective digestion .
Under these circumstances , it may be , when voided , either turbid from amorphous sediment , or clear and alkaline when tested , or free from deposit and slightly acid .
If in either of these last cases it be heated , an amorphous precipitate falls down , which is soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid , or in a solution of biphosphate of soda .
Healthy urine may at any time be made to yield a precipitate of earthy phosphates by heat , even though it be acid , by having a portion of this acid neutralised by any alkali , or by phosphate of soda , the fluid becoming more acid when boiled .
A solution of earthy phosphates in biphosphate of soda also gives a precipitate on boiling , if some of its acid reaction is removed by any alkali .
The fluid when boiled becomes more acid to test-paper , indicating the formation of a more basic earthy phosphate .
A result precisely similar is obtained when common phosphate of soda , phosphate of lime , and a little biphosphate of soda exist together in solution ; and by varying the quantities of each of these substances , the various phenomena which the urine occasionally presents may be imitated .
The time at which the alkalescence of the urine from fixed alkali generally occurs , indicates the existence of some alkaline phosphate , or of some carbonated alkali in the food .

