IV .
An Account of a Book .
Bibliographiae Anatomicae Specimen , sive Catalogus omnium pene Auctorum , qui ab HIPPOCRATE ad HARVEIUM Rem Anatomicam ex professo vel obiter scriptis illustrarunt , &amp;c. Cura ~ Studio JACOB~ DOUGLA S , M. D. Reg. Soc. S. ~ in Colleg .
Chirurg .
Londinensi Praelect .
Anatom .
8 vo .
Londini 1715 .
THE Author of this Treatise , whose admirable Skill in the Practice of Dissections , as well as in the Theory of the Structure of the Parts , leaves him not many Equals , in order to discover what Improvements and Progress Anatomy has met with , and with what Industry the Study of it has been cultivated , has with much Application perused a very great Number of Authors who have advanced the Science ; observing therein who have the Honour of being the first Discoverers , and who have unjustly arrogated to themselves that Title , that each may receive a due Proportion of Praise according to his Merit .
And in this Decision he has impartially weighed their Deserts , the better to lay before the Reader the Increase of these Studies , and to determine more exactly the Differences that have arisen about who are first Inventors ~ which the Book , Chapter and Page where they are treated of will easily manifest .
The History , Lives and Elogies ascribed to Anatomists , which he has inserted either from their own Writings , or their Editors , or Commentators , will afford a great Variety of Pleasure , in which he has been particulary careT t2 ful ful to set down the Names , Sur-Names , Country , Time of their Birth , what Year they died in , under what Masters educated , where they flourished , and in what part of Anatomy they excelled .
Nor has he been less diligent in the Account he has given of the Books of Anatomy , which his Friends supplied him with in great Number .
The Reader will see here laid before him , all the several Editions , in what Language , what Volume they were printed in , with the Place and date of the Year they were published at ; and which are the first Impressions , and which copied from them .
Nor has he judged it improper to give some Account of the Figures dispersed up and down in Anatomical Books ; as whether they were Originals or Copies , cut in Wood or Copper , &amp;c. To these he has added three Indexes , whose Use will be seen by the Titles .
As for the difference of Style remarkable in this Treatise , It is chiefly owing to the Variety of Authors made use of , he thinking himself not at Liberty to vary the Expression of them whose Authority he quotes .
He says he would willingly have recounted the great Advantage Anatomy has received from the English Nation : but out of just Regard to their Merits , he has resigned this Province to his Friend Mr. William Becket , whose Industry in collecting their Writings will not in his Opinion exceed his Talent and Abilities to recommend them to the World .
He hopes the Reader will pardon him in this , that as several Books and Editions came late to his Hands , he was forced to add the omissa separately : which being in greater Number than at first expected , the Author earnestly desires the Favour of those who have in their Collections any thing of this kind here omitted , that they would please to communicate the same , in order to render this first Specimen still more complete .

