168 Sir C. Shadwell on Terrestrial Magnetism .
[ June 15 , This compound is therefore obviously produced by the following reactionBEt2Ho + 0 = BEtEtoHo .
Boric diethohydrate .
Boric ethethylate-hydrate .
Boric ethethylate-hydrate is a transparent and mobile liquid at ordinary temperatures , but below 8 ' C. it is a white crystalline solid , which has an odour like that of boric ethide and a strong pungent taste .
It is neutral to test-papers , and is rapidly decomposed by water , exchanging its semimolecule of ethoxyl for hydroxyl , and forming boric ethodi-hydrate and alcohol ; thus , \#151 ; BEtEtoHo + OH2 = BEtHo2 + EtHo .
Boric ethethylate-hydrate .
Water .
Boric ethodihydrate .
Alcohol .
Unlike boric diethethylate and boric diethohydrate , this body is not spontaneously inflammable ; but , like the latter , it cannot be distilled at the ordinary atmospheric pressure without undergoing decomposition .
X am now engaged in submitting the organo-boron compounds and their derivatives to a thorough investigation , and hope shortly to have the honour of laying before the 'Royal Society further details respecting this family of organic compounds .
In conclusion I have much pleasure in expressing my thanks to my assistant , Mr. J. M. Cameron , for the efficient aid which he has afforded me in this work .
XIX .
" A Contribution to Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Shadwell , K.C.B. , F.B.S. Received June 15 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author records the results of a series of observations for the " Magnetic Dip " taken during the voyages of H.M.S. 'Iron Duke ' in the eastern seas , visiting China , Japan , and adjacent places , in the years 1871-75 .
The dip-circle employed was furnished with two needles , and the concluded dip recorded is the mean result of the observations by both needles .
The observations are sixty-six in number , taken at forty-two places , opportunities having been frequently afforded of repeating them on suc-C3Ssive visits to the same station .
In some instances the observations were repeated after an interval of from twelve to fourteen years , at stations formerly visited by the author on a previous visit to China and Japan ( 1857-59 ) , thus affording data for the deduction of the approximate values of the secular change of this element .
Moreover some of the observations having been taken at off-lying stations to the eastward of the coast-line of the Asiatic continent , data have been obtained for 1876 .
] On Contact Electricity between Non-Conductors .
169 determining to a certain extent the general direction of the isoclinal lines by graphic projection .
* The observations are arranged jn two tables\#151 ; Table I. recording those taken during the outward and homeward voyages to and from Singapore , and Table II .
containing those made in the eastern seas from Singapore up to Nicolaevsk on the River Amur .
They are arranged in order of the latitudes of the places visited ; but in all cases where the observations have been subsequently repeated at the same station , all those taken at the same place are noted in the Table in succession .
Finally , the author has added a few remarks suggested by a comparison of these observations with those formerly taken by him during his previous visits to China and Japan , 1857-59 .
XX .
" Experiments on Contact Electricity between Non-Conductors/ By Joseph Thomson , Student at the Physical Laboratory of Owens College .
Communicated by B. Stewart , F.R.S. Received May 23 , 1876 .
It was observed that when a plate of copper was lifted from a plate of glass the copper was electrified , and also that when a plate of glass was lifted from a plate of wax the glass was electrified , care being taken to have as little friction as possible ; it was afterwards found that the former experiment had already been made by Fechner ( see Wiedemann 's ' Gal-vanismus , page 21 ) , who also tried lifting copper from sulphur and got the'same effect ; although the plates were lifted as carefully as possible , yet-it-was not certain that friction had been entirely got rid of , so the following experiments were made to show that there is an electrical displacement when two non-conductors or a conductor and a non-conductor are put in contact without friction .
The- arrangement used was as follows :\#151 ; Glass rods , AB , CD , OF , GH , were fixed in a wooden frame ACGE ; round these rods silk threads , BF , DH , were wound ; an aluminium needle carrying a mirror , M , was hung by a silk thread from a brass rod , T , fastened in the wooden frame ; a wire from the needle dipped into a glass vessel , N , containing sulphuric acid ; a small magnet was fastened to the back of the mirror , and a glass case wTas placed over the whole ; outside the glass case were magnets , by means of which the position of the needle was regulated ; a wire also from the outside dipped into the vessel N , and was used to charge the needle with electricity ; positive electricity was got from an ordinary electrophorus , negative from an electrophorus in which the resin was replaced by a plate of glass which was excited by silk .
If wax and glass were the substances experimented on ; a cake , OQRP , was made , one half of which , OSQ , was glass , the other half , RP$ , being wax ; the junction of the wTax and glass was parallel VOL. xxv .
w

