X. An Alccountofthe Trionomeltrical Survey carre ont hi the rTears 1791 , 1792 , 1793 , a 1794 , by Order ofhis wGace the Duke of Richmond , late Master General of the Ordnance .
By Lieut. Col. Edward Williams , and Capt. William Mudge , of the Roya Artiley ; and r Isaac Dalby .
Communicated by theAi De of Richmond , F. IL .
Read ; -June 2$ , 1795 .
'INTRODU ' T !
O1 .
A GENERA : L ' survrey of the islgnd of Great Britain , at the public expeniewas(as we leanm from the LXXVth Vol. of thePhilosophical : Transactions ) , under the contemplation of Govern meant aseQarly &amp; as the year 1763 , the execution of which was to -hfave been committed to the late Major General Roy whose public -situat and talents well qualified him for such an undertaking .
Various causes rocrastinated this event till the year 1783 , when the-late M. CASSINI DE THURY transmitted aa memoir to the French ambassador at London , which paved the way to abeginningof this important work Calculated for the advancment of science , this memoir was presented ; to the Kin , and readily met with the approbation of a monarch , so eminently distinguished , from theaera of his reixgn , for -is liberal patronage of the arts and sciences .
By his Majesty 's command , the memoir was put into the hands of Sir JOSEPH BANKS , P. R. S. accompanied with suchmarks of -royal munificence , as speedily , btai ne1 all the valuwble instruxnents and apparatus nemssary for carrying the design into immediate execution .
General ' Roy , tQ whose care the conduct of this important business was committed , lived togo through the several open rationspointed out in the metmoir , the particulars of which have been detailed at great length in the Philosophical Transactions , where they will remain a testimony of his zeal and ability in conducting so arduou$ an undertaking at an advanced period of life .
The further prosecution of the -survey of the island , to which the-operations hitherto performed might be deemed only as subservint -PTintIoductory , seemed tcy expire with the General .
The iber'al assistance wich hi , Grate the Duke , of 'Rio. .
)4OND had on all occasions given t this undertaking ; and particularly the essential services performed by Cafptan FIDDES , and Lieutenant BRYCE , of the orps of royal enginees , in the survey and mbeas urement of the baseof verification o Romney Marsh , are acknowledged byGeneral Ros-in the strongest terms .
Aconsidderable time had elapsIe sined the General 's decease without any apparent intention ofrenewirwg the busibness , when a casual opportunity presented itsilf to th e Duke of RIC : HMOND of purchasing atveryfiheinstrument , the work .
manship of Mr. RA MSD -0of -:similar construction to that which was .
used by General , RoY , but with some improvements ; as also two new steel chains of orone hundred feet each , made by the ; same incomparable artist .
Circumstances thus concurring.to promote the further execution of adesign Of such great.utility .
, as well as honour , to thenation , his Grace with his .
Majesty 's approbation , immediately gave directions toprepare all the necessary apparatus for the purposeo which was accordingly provided .
in , the most ample manner. .
-SECTION -FIRST .
An Account , of the Measurement of a Base on Hounslow Heath , withan bundred Feet Steel Chain , in the Summer of the rear:1791 .
Reference to be had to Tab. XLIII .
andXLIV .
ARTICLE I. Preamble .
Previous toS entering upon the ensuing 'account , it may not , perhaps , beimproper to enumerate some preliminary matters relative to.the subject .
The first mode of mensuration ado'pted by Genera..l Roy was &gt; that with deal rods , .
which had also been used and approved .
of in other countries .
In .
the , course of the measurement , however -it appeared,.that the sudden andirre-* tgu.lar changes .
q.zwhich these .
rods were liable to ; from dryness , humidity , or o. .
there .
causes , rendered them totally unfit for as .
certaining the length of the base with that degree of precision , of which it .
was at first thought the were pable .
0n this account they were laid aside , and glass rods substituted in their stead .
These rods were contrived with .
greatingenuity to Answer the purpose , as fully appears by the account givof the in the Philosophical Transactions .
But this mode of m-ensuration be ing the first of thekind , seemed to requi e some proof of its accuracy ; which consideration induced Get neral RoQY to make a comparison between the glass rods and the steel chain , which Mr. RAMSDEN had made for the Royal Society .
For this purpose a distance of one thoisand set wa carefully neasured with the rods and the chin .
The result of these measurements appeared to be such as wouldhave pro , 'duced a difference .
of little more than half an Winch upon the whole base , had it been measured swith each of them resipecT .
tively .
But notwithstanding , the apparent degree of accuracy which this , or any other mode of measuring may be supposed capable of , yet it seems necessary that every base , intended to become the groundwork of such nice operations , ought always ( when circumstances will permit ) to be measured twice at least .
The manner in which the glass rods were applied in the measurement , is supposed to have rendered the operation liable to some small errors , which lying different ways might possibly have , counterbalanced each other , and produced a. true result : but this supposition ought never to -be admitted n experimental inquiries , unless such errors can be nearly estimated .
The principal cause of error is supposed to arise from the ends of the two adjacent rods being mad to 'rest on the sa-me tressel ; becauiae when the first , rod is taken off , the , face , of the first tressel , being then pressed by the end of one rod only , will acquire a tendency to incline a little forward .
Thee error arisinzg from this cause will evidently tend to shorten the apparent base .
Another source of error is supposed to arise from the casual deviation of the rods from a right line , in the direction of the base , tending to increase its apparent.length .
And a third error.is.supposed ; to resultlfrom the method which 1wgs used , of supporting the ends of the rods on two tressels only , by which they become liable to bend in the middle .
This con .
cave form of the rods woculd ' also tend to lengthen the base .
The first of these causes of error --was submitted to experimental inquiry in the garden of Richmondchouse , Whitehall , in the presence of his Grace the Duke of RICHMOND , Sir Jo*~~~~~~~~~ Y 'A ItTx .
'Of thed Appatspoiddfor te Meaaremente -f The apparatus , provlided fr the measurement .
consiste o a ; .
e to0 on 00f N. the following articles , ViZ i. A transit instrument .
s. A boning telescope. .
T.*wo steel chains , o teet each , with the apparatus for. .
; SG i. sWn tea h h. ; f v &lt; Y.r , the drawing-post , and weight-post .
4 .
Fifteeni coffers of dl , f receivingfthe chain .
whex A extended in a right line2 5 .
Thirty-six strong oaken pickets of 37 and 4 feet lo g ; shod , and hooped withiron .
6 .
Four brass register he !
tds , carrying gradhated sliders moved by finger-screws , for adjusting the ends ; of the chaixi .
One of these registers has a micrometer-screw attaced to proper-for measuring smallf uantitiqs expanded or contracted by ' the chain .
, 7 .
Thirty-six cast iron beads , to hix on the pickets .
HX~~~ R ; s ha dr t 7fAS^8ib d @s^ , v t4 ' ; 'er ci Sr As many of these artices have been described very circumstantially by General Ro ' in the LXN'th and LkXh Volumes of the Philosophical Transa-ctions , t WI o Iv be hecessary herie to give a descri ption of the transit i on boning telescope , and the two nw chainsn.1 The ; Trasi nstr nt.'Tab .
XII .
-This , instrument , made byvMr .
RAMpN.nay , 1b cr dered as.a transit combined with a telescopic level .
which makes , it , serve twwo prposs ; one for determ nin pints-in the same ; il.vertical t hrto show how much a Oiea-sured line deviates &amp; from th ltvel .
4 It consits of a telescope abdut eighteen inchs long , with an uchrpratic object glass of aboutiianches diSameter .
TIhe teleSCcp passes through an axis in the manner of a transit , and as it must be used , for viewing objects -at vervy different distanc,4 ?
the , images from the object'-gss will vary in the same : proportion it7 therefore becomes necessar to vary the distance of the wirea , ,so that they may bbe eaX4l in t same plaee with the image .
For this purposethere is ; a pinion , moveable by turninga : flled head at ; A , wherebythe fsmall tube , with the wires which are contained in the box B , are made to approach , or recede from the object-gss .
The ; ; two pivots , oer extremi~tiesof the atis , are made with great accuracy to the same diameterand they turn in angles in theuprightsa CC andD .
E ach of the angles is fixed in a slider ; one at D , to , move horizontally , by turning a fingerscrew E ; the other vertically , byturning the6finger-screw F. The leveltG is here reprented as spendedby its hooks on the transverse axis .
Its usei s to shewwhenthataxis is horizontal ; and'it is furnished with an adjusting-screwhH , by which the two hboos may be made exactly of the same length , so that the axis on which it issuspended Am become parallel to a tangent to the middle of the glass tube .
This level also serves to set the line of collimation , in the telescope horizontal ; for which purpose there are two pins , K and L , attached to the side of the telescope , -parallel to the axis thereof : one of these pins -is furnishd with an -adjusting-screw M , by which the the line of the hooks is made parallel to the line of collima .
tion in this direction , with the greatest precision .
The level may be suspended on these pins in the same manner as on the horizontal axis .
The cross wires at N. in the common focus of the object and eye-glasses , are fixed at right angles to each other ; but instead of being placed horizontally and vertically , as in the common way , they make each an angle of 450 with the plane of the horizon .
This mode of fixing wires is of the greatest advantage in making nice observations , as it remedies the inconvenience and error arising from their thickness .
To bring the line of collimation in the telescope at right angles to the horizontal or transverse axis , there are two nuts for the purpose , one on each side of the box at N , which serve to move the intersection of these wires towards the right or left .
In the eye end of the telescope is a micrometer , which serves to measure small -angles of elevation or depression .
It consists of a moveable horizontal wire , placed as close as possible to the cross wires already mentioned .
By turning the micrometer-screw 0 , this wire is moved across the field of the telescope , and the space which it moves through is shown in revolutions of the micrometer-screw , by means of an index , moveable in a slit , and the divisions on the stem Q. The parts of a revolution are shown in iooths by an index P , on the micrometer head .
In tracing out a base by intermediate stations , the instrument must be frequently shifted to the right or left , till the telescope shows that the middle of its axis and the extremities , of the base are in the same vertical plane .
To expedite this operation , there are slits cut through the top of the mahogany board , for receiving the screws which fasten the supports of the telescope ; by which means the telescope , with its supports , can be moved a little to the right or left , whilst the staned remains fixed .
Over another slit in the top , and directly under the centre of the axis of the telescope at R , is a small hole for a wire or thread to pass through , suspending a plummet for marking a point on the ground , when the telescope is brought into the desired vertical plane .
The method of levelling the axis , adjusting the line of collimation , &amp;c. are similar to those for the upper telescope of the great theodolite , as described in the Philosophical Transactions .
2 .
The Boning Telescope .
This telescope is in every respect the same as that which was made use of by General Roy , therefore it will only be necessary to explain the application of it , for fixing the pickets in the direction of the base , with the tops of those belonging to the same hypotenuse in the same right line .
A rope being stretched along the ground , in the direction of the base , distances of oo feet were marked upon it by means of a twenty-feet deal rod .
After a sufficient number of these distances were set off , the telescope was laid on a narrow piece of board , truly planed , and fixed to the top of the picket at the 'beginning of the hypotenuse ; and another picket was driven into the ground at a convenient height at the other end .
To the top of this last , a thin deal spar was fixed , and the telescope directed to it , whilst the intermediate pickets were driven to their proper height .
To determine this height more accurately , another spar , whose thickness was equal to the height of the axis of the telescope above the top of the picket , which supported it , was repeatedly laid on the top of each picket at the time of driving it , till its upper edge and the fixed spar appeared in a right line .
Whilst the pickets were driving , they were moved a little to the right or left , as directed by signals from the observer at the telescope , till their tops appeared in the same right line .
a. The Cbains .
These chains were made by Mr. RAMSDEN , and are of similar construction in the joints to that which he made for the Royal Society , described in the LXXVth Volume of the Philosophical Transactions ; but they differ from that in other respects .
Instead of one hundred links , each of these new chains contains forty , of 2 , feet long .
The link is in form of a parallelopipedon , of half an inch square , which renders it considerably stronger than that of the Royal Society ; and the chain having fewer links , becomes less liable to apply itself to any irregularities which the coffers may be subject to .
The handles are of brass , and being perfectly flat on the under side , they move freely upon the brass register-heads , by which means the coincidence between the arrows at the extremities of the chain , and the divisions on the scales , are readily and accurately obtained .
The two chains will hereafter be distinguished by the letters A and B. On Saturday July the 23d , all the foregoing articles were conveyed from the Tower to the end of the base near King 's 31 2 Arbour , where tents were pitched'for a party of the royal regiment of artillery , consisting of one serjeant and ten gunners , who were to be employed in the laborious part of the operation .
ART .
iii .
Experiments made to ascertain the relative Lengths of the Chains , before and after they were used ; and also to determine the Expansion , of one Chain , or one hundred Feet of blistered Steel , by one Degree of FAHRENHEIT'S Thermometer .
For this purpose , two strong oaken pickets were driven two feet into very firm ground , and the drawing-post was made fast to them .
Five coffers were arranged in a right line , and supported upon courses of bricks .
The chain was then placed in the coffers , and stretched with a weight of fifty-six pounds .
Notwithstanding the great resistance which it was thought these pickets were capable of , yet it was found insufficient to counteract the friction between the coffers and the chain , when the expansion or contraction took place .
Three pickets , therefore , of forty-four inches long , were driven into the ground , within six inches of their tops , and the drawing-post was fastened to them by several folds of strong rope .
The pickets and rope were also covered with earth , to prevent their being warped by the sun .
The micrometer-screw , attached to the brass register-head , by means of which the expansion or contraction was measured , contains 26 threads in an inch .
The circular head is divided into lo equal parts , and consequently each division will measure 2-60th part of an inch .
But as the eye readily subdivides each of the divisions into 4 parts , the micrometer will measure the 201-4th of an inch tolerably exact .
For finding the relative Lengtbs of the Chains , In order to accomplish these experiments in the most unexceptionable manner , after the chain was properly stretched in the coffers , and the thermometers placed by it , the whole remained till all the thermometers stood steadily at the same height .
The ends of the chain being then in perfect coincidence with particular divisions on the brass register-heads , the chain was quickly taken out and replaced by the other , which being properly stretched in a right line , and a coincidence made at the drawing-post end of the chain , the variation of the other end from the division on its register-head showed the difference of the lengths of the chains , which was measured by the micrometer .
As it required weather particularly steady to succeed in these experiments , we were obliged to catch the most favourable opportunities that presented themselves , which happened on the 29th and 3oth ) of July ; on those days the chains were compared with each other , and the results xvere as follow .
July 29th .
Thermometers remaining steadily at 750 during and after the operation .
The chain B was found to be 6+ divisions of the micrometer head shorter than the chain A ; and on being shifted , A was found to exceed B 6+ divisions .
Same day .
Thermometers steady at 67T .
The chain B6 divisions shorter than A ; and being shifted , the chain A was 6 divisions longer than B. The mean from these experiments is , A 64 divisions longer than B. In the table containing the particulars of the operation , it will be found , that the chain B was laid aside after measuring 38 chains , on account of one of the links appearing to be a little bent .
Before it was sent to Mr. RAMSDEN it was compared with the chain A ( at first intended to be kept as the standard chain ) , when it was found to be only 4 ?
divisions longer ; which being 14 divisions less than the mean 64T as found above , shows , that the chain B had lengthened At , divisions in measuring , q8 chains ; for when Mr. RAMSDEN afterwards straightened the link , he could not perceive any difference in its length .
The remainder of the base was measured with the chain A ( the chain B being kept as a standard ) , and when that was completed , a comparison was again made between A and B , when it appeared that A exceeded B by q4 - .
divisions of the micrometer head ; therefore the wear of A , by lengthening of the joints , in measuring 236 chains , was 14 , divisions =9,7 divisions of the micrometer .
Forfinding the Rate of Expansion .
The chain being placed in a right line , along the horizontal bottoms of the coffers , and kept in a state of tension by a weight of fifty-six pounds , five thermometers were placed close by the chain ; one in the middle of each coffer ; and the whole was covered with a white linen cloth , when the sun shone out .
After remaining a few minutes , till the thermnoruieters were nearly of the same temperature , a perfect coincidence was made on the register heads , at each end of the chain , and the thermometers noted .
Every thing remained in this state till the coincidence at the weight end of the chain was ob-d served to be altered , and the thermometers nearly the same ; at which instant , they were again read off , and the alteration of coincidence measured by the micrometer .
August 5th , cloudy .
Thermometers.r .
Total contr .
on t. 1 3t |45 Mean .
Divis$ .
Inches .
Inches .
62,5 62,7563 7639 , 76j,96 75,75 7-5,5`6 750 25L 096642 j,0074Here the contraction of the chain is 2 ?
5 divisions of the micrometer _ 251 x inches,9o6642 inches , and the corresponding variation of the thermometers , taking the difference of the means , is 13,0o5 ; consequently the contraction 0 o9664z on 305,0074 inches .
Aug. 6th , cloudy .
89,5 869,75 90 1 90 1 89,9s 1 3889I,148077 ),0071 69,5 69,5 69j,251 69 169,5 69,3513y 4070'1 Aug. 7 .
Coffers covered with the linen cloth .
10,5 102 , 102,75 102 102 1102,35 29,5,113462 1,0749 87 1 8~3 87 88 88 87 , 9o 89 891,75 93 92 92.91,5 162 , o250 f6,00789 98 95 1 02 99,75 101 199,15 3 6,2 3$88500o7 92 96 , 9 ; 330385 00748 Aug. 7th , in the evening .
Coffers covered with the linen cloth .
Thermometers .
Contr .
l l____ _t |Total contr .
on 0 ?
_________ ~~ Mean .
Micr .
1121345 Mean .
Divisis .
Inches .
Inches .
90 191 89 91 92 90,6 0307004 8o I 8o 81,5 8i,5 8i 8o,8 19,777076 _ _-~~~~~~6,.2,5.g38 P_ , ,9675 68 69,5 69 69 68,5 23,5,09035 0,0736 7,75 j62,75 62 , 6 !
2 62 6i,8 ' oo~ , o~ The mean result from these nine experiments is 0,007492 , or 0,0075 inch to o Of FAHRENHEIT , on loo feet of blistered steel ; which differs only I Ath parts of an inch from General Roy 's conclusion with the pyrometer ; but the number,0075 is preferred in these measurements , as being deduced from experiments made with the chain itself .
ART .
IV .
Particulars relative to the Comnmencement of the Operation , &amp;c. After the chains were compared , and the rate of expansion determ-ined , as related in the preceding article , several trials were made of arranging the pickets and coffers in such a manner as might be supposed proper for the reception of the chain .
It was soon found , however , that this method of measuring would be neither so expeditious or accurate , as if the coffers were placed upon tressels , such as were made use of by General Roy in his measurement with the glass rods .
An application was therefore made to Sir JOSEPH BANKS , who very obligingly complied with the request , and lent the tressels belonging to the Royal Society ; a -description of which may be seen in the LXXVth Vol , of the Philosophical Transactions .
As the upper part of the pipe at the north-west end of the base was found to be exceedingly rotten , it became necessary to saw off 13 inches of it , which left enough of the cylinder remaining to fix the brass cup in , as it had been originally bored to the depth of two feet .
This cup , which was also lent by the Royal Society , being inserted in the pipe , fitted it exactly .
On the i5th of August , having previously traced out the line of the base , by means of the transit instrument , the operation commenced , in the presence of Sir JOSEPH BANKS , Dr. MASKELYNE , and several other members of the Royal Society .
The following table , which contains the particulars of it will explain the order of time in which the different parts of the measurement were performed .
As it would swell this table to a great extent , were the degrees shown by the thermometers inserted therein , it has been considered as proper to give only their sum , which is sufficient for finding the correction to be applied in the reduction of the base , on account of the lengthening or contracting of the chain by variation of temperature .
It may , however , be remarked , that the five thermometers were laid close by the chain , and suffered to remain ' till they had nearly the same temperature , when they were read off , and registered in a field-book , whilst an observer at each end of the chain preserved a perfect coincidence between the arrow and a particular division on the brass scale .
When the sun shone out , the chain was covered with a white linen cloth , the ends of which were put over the openings of the first rind last coffers , to exclude the circulation of air .
The thermometers usually remained in the coffers from 7 to 15 minutes , according to circumstances ; when the sky was much overcast , a shorter time generally was found to be sufficient .
ART .
v. Table , containing the Particulars of the Measutrement .
: the first Column showing the Day of the Month when each Hypotenuse was fi .
nished ; the Second , the Number of Hypotenuses ; the Third , the Num. .
ber of Chains in each Hypotenuse ; the Fourth , the Perpendicular be_ longing to each Hypotenuse , or the datum for reducing it to the Plane of the Horizon ; the Fifth , the computed Reduction ; the Sixth , the new Points of Commencement above or below the Head of the last Picket when a new Direction was taken ; the Seventh , the total Descent of the Extremity of each Hypotenuse ; and the Eighth , Remarks , or generalOccurrences .
1791 .
No. of No. of Perpen .
Reduction New Total hypoten .
chs .
in dicular .
of point of descent .
Remarks .
Month .
hypoten .
hypotenuse .
coinmt ... ... | ... __.._ I.aches..inch ' .
_ Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
The Ist'chain commenced 14 Aug. 15 3 5,8 0,00467 i,8 I9,8 inches above the head of Ge-I6 2 i , 3 o , o 0,00000 zi,6 neral RoY 's pipe before it 22 3 .
32 57 , 0,04231 35,4 was cut off smooth .
23 4 14 .
26 , g5 o0,25 r 4,9 6i,6s Began ' measuring with chain A 25 50 12 , o , oo600o 49 68,85 at4th hyp .
one of the links on 29 6 19 o , o 0,00000 60,95 the chain B appearing to be a Sept. 2=7 34 z8,8 0,01017 89,75 little bent .
-8th hypot .
48I 3,8 ooo6oz 8t,9s Crossed the river Coln at the 69 I5 69,25 0 , 13321 4,25 155,20 Crossed the Staines road at the 8 10 17 15,3 0 , o0574 : I 66 , zS 9th hypotenuse .
9 11 5 33,5 0,09352 199,75 12 12 13 1,9 0,00012 8,7g5 zoi,65 121 37 545 0 , 17680 247,90 13 14 6 0,0 0,00000 5,725 247,90 14 15 5 7,5 o , oo469 Z50,15S -14l .
I6 9 0,0 0,00000 9,5 z50,15 i6 17 8 5,3 o,0oI46 245 &gt; 35 J7 i8 Io0 2,9 0,00035 248,8 5 20 19e 5 4,8 o,0oI92 253,65 20 20 4 8 , i ooo683 26I,75 21 21 8 IS 0,00012 z6o,25 21 22 6 35,4 0,08703 295,65 ?
2 23 1 6,4 0,01707 302,05 Crossed the Wolsey river at the 23 24 10 14,5 o,0o876 3I 6,5 5 23d hypotenuse .
25 25 12 54,4 0,10275 .
370,95 25 Z6 1 24 ; 5 0,25015 346,45 &gt; 23 , 27 5 1,0 0,0000 1 345,45 26 28 5 11,3 0 , o0064 356,75 26 29 1 9,0 0,03375 365,75 The head of the last picket was 4 .
feet above the head of 26 35 6,9 ooQ3g7 372,65 the pipe before it was cut off smooth .
Total reduction = i , o2867 -oo857zfeet .
Sum of all the degrees shown by the therwometers = 96795,25 .
_K ARTS vi Farther Remarks ; and Reduction of the Base to the Tem~perature of 620 .
Remarks .
It having been our wish , that some scientific persons should be-present at the completion of the measurement , his Grace the Duke of RICHMOND was pleased to desire Dr. MASKELYNE , astronomer royalnan Dr-D HuTTON , professor of mathematics in the royal military academy at Woolwich , to attend upon this occasion ; , to whom Mr. RAMSDEN was necessarily joined , as his standardbrass scale , and beam compasses , were requisite to conclude thebusiness with the wished for accuracy .
Accordingly , on Wednesday the 28th of September the remaining three chains were measured in their presence ; and the horizontal distance from the end of the last chain to the axis of the pipe was found to be 21,055 inches , as determined by Mr. RAMSDEN ' i ; and consequently the apparent length of the base was 974 chains , and 21,0o55 inches .
The height off the last picket above the pipe was .
, inches , from which deducting the S inches of the rotten part , which was cut off , there remnainso 30inchesor feet , for the height of the last picket , above General Roots pipe ; which makes the whole ' descent , feet ; or about 2 -feet more than was determined by the former measurement .
Reduction of the Base to the Temperature of 62 ' .
Apparent length , namely , ?
74+ chas + 1,755 Feet .
feet 9 27401,755 The correction for the excess of the chains lengths* above ioo feet , and half their wear , is 236 x,956 + 38 X , o5489 and this add 0539 I2 The sum of all the degrees shown by the there mometers was 96795,25 ; therefore.967 __ 40 x 274 x '2i75 is the correction for the mean heat in which the base was measured , above 54 ] , the temperature in which the chains were laid , off ; and this also add 2,51,9 Hence these corrections , added to the apparent length , give 27406,6608 Again , for the reduction of the base to the temn , 80 perature of 62 we have 2X 3,8938 ; .and this subtract 2,2596 By the table , the sum of all the corrections for reducing the , several hypotenuses to the plane of the horizon is 1,02867 inches= 0o , o8572 feet , and this subtract ; _,0o857 Hence these corrections taken from the above length leaves that of the base tinthe tezheratdre of 620 27404,3155 o For the lengths of the chains A and B see A IT .
v i. of this section .
To comparce -this length of the base with that assigned by Genhel RoY , it -becomes necessary-to rectify a small oversight ' in the 4th step of the process published in the Philso. .
phical Transactions for 1785 .
-The equation for -6 difference of temperature there specio .
fled , should consist of the djffrence of the numbers forr brass 60 and glass , and not of that for brass alone , viz. x,3 x 838 -.1,41658 , o9864 feet instead of1,6946 , which makes the base o,7082 feet too long .
Therefore the length of the base , as measured-by the , glass rods , is 27404,0843 feet , being about 23 inches less than by the above reduction ; consequently 27404,2 , the mean : of the Xtwo results , may be taken as the true length of th base .
; ART .
vI .
Mr-.'RAMSDENS Method of ascertaining the actual Lengths of the -lChains A and B. Tab. XLIV .
These chains .
were originally compared with the brass points *~~~~~~~~cmae w be Wbrs point , fXSE inserted in the stone coping of the wall of St. James 's churchyard ; but the temperature at the time of that comparison was 0 : ' ; f '.'t '0 ' ' i'Af'er t ' 'ans afterwards forotten by Mr. 'RAMSDEN .
After the mensuration on Hounsl Heath was finished , the chains were again compare with those points ; but the result did not prove to be satisfactory , as there were reasons for supposing that some al-teration had taken place in the length of the coping ; but , indeterafi _ ha ' &gt; a ' ' the copng , -.iu pendent of this , the great irreRularities between the joints of the stones , 0 ?
me of which projected half an inch above others , rendered It at best a very rude and inaccurate operation .
Mr RAMSDEN had points remaining on his great plank , which had been transfejred from the brass standard , but as the plank itself was found to be subject to a daily expansion and contraction , he turned his thoughts to the invention of some other method of measuring the lengths of the chains , in.a more un exceptionable manner .
On considering that the expansion of cast iron is nearly the same as that of the steel chain , he procured a prismatic bar of that metal , of gi feet long , judging it to be the most proper material for the present occasion , as well as for establishing a permanent standard for future comparisons of the same kind .
The manner in which the bar was fitted up for the- : purpose will be readily understood by attending to Tab. XLIV .
The great plank was cut to the length of aboutt 22 feet , and on one of its narrow edges 21 brackets were fixed ; each of which had a triangular notch to receive and support the bar , with one of its angles downwards , so that the upper surface became one of the faces of the prism .
Before the brass points were inserted in this bar , Mr. RAMSDEN compared his brass standard with that belonging to the Royal Society , for which purpose , on Nov. 2nd , 1791 , it was sent to their apartments in Somerset house , where , after the two standards had remained together about 24 hours , .
they were found to be precisely of the same length .
Brass points were then inserted in the upper surface of the bar , from Mr. RAMSDEN'S standard , at the distance of forty inches from each other , the w 1holelength of 20 feet being laid off on those points in the temperature of S The chains were measured in the Duke of MARLBOROUGH'S riding-house , where the light was very convenient for the purpose , and the whole apparatus was sheltered from the wind and sun .
The plank and bar were supported on five of the tressels , or tripods , belonging to the Royal Society , and the upper sure face of the bar was brought into an horizontal plane by means of screws and a spirit level .
The brass points on the upper surface of the bar were brought into a right line , by stretching asilver wire along the top , and pressing the bar laterally with wedges , till all the points fell under the wire .
Part of the chain was then placed on rollers , which rested on narrow slips of wood fixed on the side of the plank , about five inches below , and exactly parallel to the bar ; and whilst it was fastened to an adjusting-screw near one end of the plank , it : was kept straight on the rollers by a weight of fifty-six pounds .
From the extremities of the go feet on the edge of the bar , two fine wires with plummets were suspended , which were immersed in vessels of water , the wires hanging so as nearly to touch the chain .
One end of the chain being then brought under its wire , by means of the adjusting-screw , a fine point was made on the chain coinciding with the other wire .
This part , of the , chain was then shifted , and another 20 feet measured in the same manner ; and the operation continued till the length of each chain was thus -obtained at five successive measurements .
The result was , that in the temperature of 51 L , in which the operation was performed , the chain A was found to exceed ioo feet by 0,114 inches , and the chain B , by o , o08 inches .
Now , according to the table of expansions in Vol. LXXV .
Phil. Trans. the expansion due to 1 ?
FAHRENHEIT on 1oo feet of cast iron is 0,0074 inches , and that of the chain being o , oo07 , their difference is o , oooi , and therefore for 2j0 it will be o , ooos ; consequently , as the points were put on the bar in the temperature of 54O , and the chains measured in 51 ?
o or 2 .
less , their lengths in the temperature of S4 , agreeing with the points on the bar , will be feet .
inches .
A =100-+ 0,111425 , B =oo + 0,05825 The comparison of the chains with each other , as related in ART .
IIi .
together with this determination of their lengths , furnish the data necessary for the reduction of the base on Hounslow Heath .
The wear of B , in measuring g8 chains , appeared ( vid .
ART .
iii .
) to be i2divisions of the micrometer head__754~~~~~~~~~~~260 o , oo673 inches : and the wear of A was 9,7 divisions =9_ 0',0373 inches .
Then , from the excess of A above Inches .
Inches ; ioo feet , namely , 0,11425 , and of B oo582,5 subtract half the wear o , o1865 0,00336 0,0956 0,05489 Ft. In .
And we get the lengths of the chainsl A 100 + , o956 , and in the temperature of 54 deg. before , B = too + , o5489 , the they were used in the measurement , lengths used in the renamely , J duction of the base .
ART .
VIII .
Method of fixing the Iron Cannon at the Extremities of the Base on Hounslow Heath , 1791 As the pipes were foundin a very decayed state , and it beecame certain , were they suffered to remain as the termini , that in a few years the points marking the extremities 'of the base would be lost , it became necessary to re-establish them in a more permanent manner .
Amongst the various means which were proposed for this purpose , that of heavy iron cannon was adopted , having been previously sanctioned with the approbation of Mr. RAmsi &gt; EN , and other competent judges .
Twoguns weretherefore selected at Woolwich by order of the Master-general , from among those which had been condemnedl as unfitfor the public service , and sent to Hampton by water .
The placing of these guns accurately being an operation of a , delicate-nature , and attendedwith some difficulty , on account of their great weight , the mode of performing it was very deliberately considered ; and every precaution afterwards taken to render the operation unexceptionable .
The method was as follows .
Four -oaken circular pickets , of 3 inches diameter , were driven into the ground , at the distance of io feet each from the centreof the pipe , two of them being in the direction of the base , and the others at right angles to it .
Melted lead was then run into a hollow made in the head of each picket , and afterwards filedd off perfectly smooth .
On the brass cup , belbnging to the Royal Society , being adjusted in the pipe , silver wires werestretched from the heads of the opposite pickets , and moved till their intersection coincided with the centre of the cup ; .
and in this position a fine line was drawn on the lead of each .
picket , exactly under and in the direction of the wire .
This operation being performed , and the truth of it reexamined , the pipes were taken out of the ground , in doing which it became necessary to make an excavation of about four feee4 in order to clear the circumference of the wheel .
' It had been at first intended to have inserted the gun so far in the ground as .
that its muzzle should be even with the surface of the original pipe : but upon considering that this was a matter not absolutely essential to the ascertainingo the actual length of the base by any future measurement , provided the axes of the guns were made to coincide with those of the pipes , it was determined to fix the cannon , without digging the pit to-a greater depth than that of te fIeet .
In this posiX tion , however , it was evident , that the muzzle of the gun would rise higher than the surface of the pickets , which had been put into the ground for finding the centre ; which rendered it necessary to drive in and adjust four outer pickets , of a proper height , to determine the centre of the bore of the gun , by the intersection of another set of wires .
The tops of the first set of pickets were therefore cleared , and the silver wires extended along the fine lines which had been made on the lead .
A plummet was then suspended from above , and moved till it fell on the intersection of the wires .
Being fixed in this position , another set of wires was stretched across the .
tops of the four outer pickets , till their intersection also coincided with the vertical wire of the plummet , in which position , fine lines were drawn under the wires on the top of each of the outer picket &gt; .
The truth of the operation now depending on these last pickets , they were carefully guarded by another set which surrounded each of them , and these last were again bound round with ropes , to preserve the centre pickets from any possible accident .
These precautions being taken , and the pit cleared , a large stone of 2j feet square , and 15 inches deep , containing a circular cavity in its upper surface to receive the cascabel of the gun , was placed in the bottom of it , the centre of the hole being nearly under the intersection of the wires , as determined by a plummet .
The gun was thenL 2 let into the pit , and resting upon the stone , it was brought into a position nearly vertical , at which time a quantity of earth and stones were thrown into the pit sufficient to steady the gun .
This being done , the cross wires were stretched over the outer pickets , and a pointed plummet suspended from above , having its line coinciding with the intersection of the wires , was let fall into the cylinder , in which a cross of wood that exactly fitted it was placed , whose centre corresponded with that of the bore .
The gun was then moved till a dot marking the centre of the cross came directly uender the point of the plummet ; when earth and stones were rammed round the gun , care being taken to force it by that operation into its proper position , as shown by the plummet and cross .
ln this manner were the gunss 4ixed at the extremities of the base ; and it remains only to be observed , that to prevent the unequal settling of the earth , rammed within the pit , from moving them out of their proper positions , four beams of wood were placed in an horizontal direction , having their ends resting against the sides of the pit and the gun .
It may also be added , that iron caps were screwed over the muzzles to preserve the cylinders from rain .
SECTION SECOND .
Containing Particulars relative to the Commencementt of the Trigonometrical Operation.-An Account of the Improvementsin the great Theodolite ; and a Relation of the Progress Oftade in the Survey in 1792 , 1793 , and 17P4 , together with the Angles taken in those Tears .
ART .
1 .
Of Particulars relative to the Commencement of the Tri.gonornetrical Operation .
Having , by the re-measurement of the base on Hounslow Heath , sufficiently determined its accuracy , it became neces- ' sary , upon the approach of the following spring , to form some plan which might enable us to commence the survey with the most advantage .
Of those which were suggested , that of proceeding immediately to the southward with a series of triangles seemed the most eligible , not only because , in the first instance , the execution of it would forward one great design .
of the business , in an early determination of some principal points upon the seacoast , but also because a junction of the eastern part of the series with that of the western of General Roy , would afford an early proof of what degree of accuracy had attended both operations .
To ascertain the truth of the General 's work , by verifying some principal distance or distances , was an object which presented itself , not only as interesting and curious , but as highly necessary , in order to determine whether , by the result , the triangles might stand good , and become a part of the general series .
In addition to this reason , there was another which o#ered itself , and that was , the prospect of being able to obtain the length of a degree of longitude in an early stage of the sir .
vey ; for it had been suggested , and upon inquiry was found to be true , that Dunnose in the Isle of Wight was visible , in particular moments of fine weather , from Beachy Head on the coast of Sussex : but attention was at the same time given to the recommendation of General Roy , in the selection of Shooter 's Hill and Nettlebed , as places for observing the di ' rections of the meridian ; and it was resolved , whatever preference might in future be given to those on the coast for this im portant operation , that at all events such observations should be made , as might determine the distance between the stations recommended by the General .
Having therefore formed an outline for the operation of the year 1792 , upon the approach of spring , Captain MUDGE and Mr. DALBY explored the country over which it , was intended to carry the triangles , and visited such stations in the series of General Roy as were judged to be proper for the above purpose .
In the choice of those:stations which were about to be selected , instructions had been given by his Grace the Duke of RICHMOND to avoid towers and high buildings , as getting an instrument on them had , by the experience which the former operation afforded , been found difficult and dangerous ; such of them therefore as were thus circumstanced were avoided , and near the most proper ones , stations were chosen on the ground .
'From these directions the points of junction were necessarily confined to Saint Ann 's Hill ; Botley Hill , and Fairlight Down , because the pipe sunk near Hundred Acre House was found to be destroyed ; but this was considered immaterial in its consequence , as it would have been improper to have chosen it for a principal station , becausethe high ground near Warren Farm took off the view of Leith Hill .
A disadvantage however , which seemed to result from this resolution of avoiding high buildings for stations , occurred in the difficultyi which offered itself of proceeding from Hanger Hill and St. Ann 's Hill , with a mean distance of that side as given by General Roy ; for the stations chosen at the former place being on the ground , there was scarcely a possibility of erecting a staff at King 's Arbour , sufficiently high , to afford a view of its top from Hanger Hill : a quadrilateral therefore , similarly posited , could not be fixed on ; , but as a proper substitute , a , station was chosen upon .
the elevated ground near Banstead , which was visible from St. Ann 's Hill , King 's Are . .
bour , and Hanger Hill ; and this , together with St. Ann 's Hill and Hanger Hill , formed two triangles , which would give the distance between St. Ann 's Hill and Banstead , independent of each other .
Upon the return of Captain MUDGE and Mr. DALBY from their expedition , in which they had selected many of the principal ; stations , and , by examining the face of the-country , had formed some judgment of thefuturedisposition of the triangles , preparations weren made for taking the field ; and the party which had been engaged in the measurement of the base , * were ' ordered to be attached to the trigonometrical operation : .
Little difficulty was found in , determining upon the choice of they necessary apparatus .
Lamps were constructed by Mr. JIHOWARD of Old-street , .
which were afterwards found to equal every thing which could be expected from them .
Instead of the reflector being exposed to the wind , these lamps were enclosed in strong tin cases , having plates of ground glass in their fronts , which'effectually prevented the bad effects of an unequal and.unsteady light .
In the centre of the back of each case , there were straps and semicylinders of tin , which moving upon joints , clasped the staff to which in their use they were braced .
Two of the lamps were of twelve inches diameter , and a third of twenty-two ; and the last of these , prior to the use of it in the ensuing season , was lighted on Shooter 's Hill , and clearly distinguished at the distance of thirty miles .
Copper nozles of different sizes were likewise~ provided for holding the white lights .
During the measurement of the base , an observatory for the reception of the instrument was making at the Tower , as likewise two carriages , to be used in conveying them from station to station .
One was made with springs for the greater ' safety of the instrument , which resting upon a cushion in the carriage , was sufficiently secured from any jolting upon the road .
As it was easily foreseen that upon eminences , on which it was certain the instrument would be placed ' , it would be hazardous to trust it .
in a receptacle of slight construction , great pains had been taken to make the observatory strong .
It consisted of two parts , the interior one of which , or the observatory itself , was eight feet in diameter , and its floor of a circular form , and from the sides of it eight iron pillars rose to the height of seven feet , which were connected at the extremities by oaken braces .
The roof was formed of eight rafters which vspited at the top , having their ends fastened into the heads of the iron stauncheons , and were otherwise sufficiently clamped .
Thie sides-and roof were each , composed of four-and-twenty frames , covered with painted canvas , any of Which could be removed at pleasure ; and the whole was covered with a ten t formed of strong materials .
Having : thus detailed , in as short a manner as possible , the heads of such particulars -as it may be necessary the public should be acquaintedwith , it remains only to give some account of the improvements in our great theodolite , before we narrate the progress made in the survey in the summer of the year 179g .
ART .
II .
Account of the Improvements in the-great Theodolite .
Mr. RAMSDEN has considerably improved this instrument , which , in other respects is , of the same .
dimensionsand construction as that .
made use of by General Roy , which has already been described in the Philosophical Transactions .
The construction of the microscopes render them very superior to. .
those of that instrument as the means by which the image is proportioned .
to the .
required number of revolutions of .
the micrometer-screw , and also the mode of adjusting the wires to that image , are much facilitated .
( See .
Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
p. 146 .
) .
For the first , there -are three prongs proceeding from the cell which holds the object-glass these , after passing through slits in the small-tube which constitutes the lower part of the microscope , are confined between two nuts which turn on this small tube , so that by turning the nuts , the object-lens is moved towards , or from , the divisions on the circle , as occasion may require .
To adjust the wires in the micrometer to the image ; in the upper part of the body of the microscope are two nuts , one-sliding within the other .
To the upper end of the interior one the micrometer is fixed ; andi near the lower end are three prongs similar to those above mentioned , but something longer .
These prongs pass through slits in the exterior tube , and are confined between nuts , in the same manner as the object-lens .
This construction has many advantages over that described in the Philosophical Transactions .
To obviate the necessity of .
the gold tongue ( Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
p. 147 ) , besides the moveable wire in the field of the microscope , there is a second one , which may be considered as fixed , having only a small motion for its adjustment .
When the instrument is adjusted , and the index belonging to the micrometer-screw stands at the zero on its circle ( the moveable wire cutting one of the dots on the limb of the instrument ) , this fixed wire must be made to bisect the next dot ; as by this means it may be perceived at any time , whether the relative position of the wire has varied .
By graduating the limb of the instrument to every ten minutes instead of fifteen , we are enabled to measure by the micrometer-screw , not only the-excess of the measured angle above any of the ten minutes , but also its complement to the next division on the circle , and thereby to correct any small inequality which may happen between the divisions .
ART .
IIl .
Particulars relating to the Operations of the Tear 1792 .
Although it might have been reasonably supposed , that the angles of the triangle King 's Arbour , Hampton Poor House , and St. Ann 's Hill , had been observed with sufficient accuracy in ' ] 787 , yet that this operation might not rest on data afforded by any former one , it was considered as proper to determine them with our own instrument .
By a reference to the Philosophical Transactions , ( Vol. LXXX .
p. 162 .
) it will be found , that General Roy was obliged to elevate the instrument at the extremities of the base ; for which purpose a stage of thirty-two feet high had been constructed .
The saine necessity existing with us , an application was made to the Royal Society for it ; and in theautumn of 1791 , that part of it which had been left at Dover , was brought to the Tower .
The first station to which the instrument was taken this year was Hanger Hill , because it was found upon examination , that the part of the stage which had been left at Shepperton was much damaged , and stood in need of considerable repair .
It was , however , soon fitted for use , and a new tent for the top having been provided , the half stage was erected over the pipe at St. Ann 's Hill , to which from HangerHill the instrument was conveyed .
Here , as well as at the other stations where the stage was used , a plumb-line was let fall from the axis of the instrument over the point marking the station , being sheltered from the wind by a wooden trough .
In the use of the half stage , the ' instrument was sufficiently steady when the wind blew moderately ; but from the crazy state of the lower part , it was only by watching for moments particularly calin , that satisfactory observations could be made when the whole of it was used .
The -following obervations will sufficiently explain the detail of this year 's operations , which are given in the order of time in which they were made .
By an examination of them it will be perceived , that most of the angles have been observed more than once : indeed it was a position which we laid down upon our commencing this business , and which , as far as circumstances would admit , has since been adhered to , namely , that of observing the angles upon different arcs .
When staffs were erected , which was generally the case when the stations were not more remote than fifteen miles , the angles were repeatedtill their truth became certain , and the same was also done , when angles were determined by the lamps ; but it sometimes happened , that only one of the two white lights , which were burned at the distant stations , was seen ; in which case , if the observation appeared to be made without any error , but that which an inequality in the division of the instrument might be supposed to produce , it was considered as sufficient ; otherwise fresh lights were sent to the station and observed .
In the use of the white lights , it is conceived that sufficient precautions were taken , as the firing of them was always committed to particular soldiers of the party , selected from the rest on account of their capacity and steadiness , who had instructions to place the copper nozle immediately over the point marking the station , by means-of a plumb-line let fall from the bottom .
In observing them with the instrument , the angle was not taken till the light was going out .
But the men commonly guarded against the flame .
being blown greatly on one side , by erecting something to windward of the light .
In the use of the lamps also , care was taken to give them their proper direction ; for when the ground about the station would not admit of the lamp being placed immediately upon it , slender staffs were erected supported by braces , and made upright , by being plumbed in directions at right angles to each other .
Precautions were also used to put those staffs precisely over the points , by centering the holes in the crossboards .
To such a part of the staff as was judged to be the most convenient , the lamp was buckled , and its direction obtained by bringing a mark in the middle of it to correspond with another on the staff , which was determined to be opposite the station , by directing a ruler to it from each side of the staff , and markin g the places touched .
The distance between those marks was then bisected , which gave the situation for the middle of the lamp .
IIn a very early stage of the business it was found , that the effects of heat and cold on the limb of the instrument were likely to produce the greatest errors ; for if the canvas partitions , forming the sides of the observatory , were open to windward , streams of air passing unequally over the surface of it would cause such sudden effiects , that little dependence could be placed : on any olmervations made with the instrument in such a state .
To avoid this ; it was the constant practice when the windblew with any degree of violence , to prevent the admissiof of it as miuch a &amp; possible , by keeping up the walls of the external tent , leaving only a sufficient opening for the discovery of the lamp or light ; and at other times when the wind blew moderately , and a greater difference appeared in the readings of the opposite microscopes , than an error in division might be supposed to produce , the walls of the external tent were entirely-thrown downn , and the instrument kept in an equal temperature by the admission of air on all sides .
In taking the angles , it was a general rule for some person to keep his eye at one of the microscopes , and bisect the dot , as the observer moved the limb with thefinger-screw of the clamp .
This precaution is very necessary when white lights are used , for should there be a mistake in reading off an aigle , when several are taken from the same lamp as the permanent object , it sometimes may prove troublesome to rectify the error , without sending other white lights to the stations .
We found that to be the case at Ditchling Beacon , when only one person happened to be at the instrument , anda reading was set down 10 " wrong .
A similar circumstance occurred at Briglitling .
For these reasons , lamps are greatly preferable to white lights , when the distances are not too great .
As the instrument was sometimes found to sink on the axis , which was partly owing to wear by the constant use of it , and the screws of the centre work loosening a little by the shaking of the carriage ; whenever it came to a new station , the opposite points were examined ; and if it was found that the circle had fallen , which would be shown by the runs of the micrometers , it was raised a little , and , the microscopes re-adjusted .
At the different stations , after the observations had been made , large stones , from a foot and a half to two feet square , were sunk in the ground , generally two feet under the surface , having a hole of an inch square made in each of them , whose centre was the precise point of the station .
ART IV .
Angles taken in the Tear 1792 .
At Hanger Hill .
Between , , , Mean .
Shooter 's Hill and Banstead 62 i8 49,5 4975J 50,125.51,.)5 At Chanctonbury Ring .
Between Mean .
oJ J0 Rook 's Hill and Leith Hill 92 23-25 } 25 , ,25 25 Rook 's Hill and Hind Head 47 12 .
37 Hind Head and Leith Hill 45 10 46 Rook 's Hill and Ditchling Beacon 179 846 ART .
V. Further Particulars respecting the Operations of the Year 1792 .
Excepting the stations Nine Barrow Down , Black Down , Wingreen , Long Knoll near Maiden Bradley , Beacon Hill , Inkpin Beacon , with those about the base of verification , all the stations which constitute the series hereafter given , were selected this year .
From an opinion which we entertain , that triangles , whose sides are from 12 to about i8 miles in length , are preferable for the general purposes of a survey , to those of greater dimensions , we have endeavoured to select such stations as might constitute a series of that description .
In those which were chosen to the eastward of Bagshot Heath , Hind Head , and Butser Hill , we have in some degree succeeded ; but , from local circumstances , we have not been equally fortunate with those to the westward .
Instead of Dean Hill , it was hoped that the ground upon which Farle ' Monument stands , might have suited our purpose ; but the wood to the west of the hill was found to be so high , that even with the whole stage , the aN2 instrument would not be sufficiently elevated .
There re-k mained , therefore , no other expedient but fixing upon Dean Hill , which is the highest spot near Farley Monument .
It must be also observed , that Highclere is the only situation which affords the means of carrying on the triangles from the side Bagshot Heath and Hind Head , without forming a quadrilateral .
When the instrument was at Shooter 's .
Hill , a staff was erected on Blackheath , for the purpose of enabling us to determine the direction of the meridian with respect to Nettlebed .
This , however , was not done , the weather proving too unfavourable ; but as some of the stations were referred to this staff , it may be proper to observe , that on account of its being so near Shooter 's Hill , a small portfire was placed in a groove cut in it , which afforded the means of taking an angle very exactly , as the light had the appearance of a bright point .
The interior stations which were selected for the use of the small instrument , were Bow Hill , near Rook 's Hill ; Portsdown Common , ,on the road to Portsmouth ; and Sleep Down , near Steyning .
To the first and last of these the instrument was taken , for the purpose of fixing such objects as could not be intersected from the principal stations .
The points on the coast were particularly wanted , for the construction of some maps which were making for the use of the Board of Ord'nance .
Those places so fixed will be given hereafter ; but it must be observed , that few opportunities were lost of searching for church towers , and other objects whose situations were to be determined .
That the bearings of those might be taken with precision , the observations were made either in the morning or evening , when the air was free from vapour , and without that quivering motion , which , in summer , it generally has in the middle of the day .
ART .
VI .
Improvement in the Axis of the great -Theodolite ; and the Progress of the Survey in the rear 1793 .
Towards the conclusion of the last year 's operation , it was found that the axis of the instrument , by the frequent use of it , was considerably worn , and which was , perhaps , increased by the motion of the carriage , as the arch could not be clamped with tightness sufficient to prevent the circle from moving within the limits of the bell-metal arms , and the upright part of the travelling case .
The consequence was , that it sometimes became necessary to let the circle lower by means of the screws ; and asit was found to be exceedingly difficult to turn them equally , and by a quantity which was just sufficient , an application was madee to Mr. RAMSDEN to apply something to the axis , which , might enable us to adjust the circle with greater ease and , accuracy .
Accordingly , upon the party arriving in town , the instrument was taken to his-house , and left there for the winter , during which he made the desired alteration .
The progress made in the survey during the last season , determined the extent of the business for this year : and it was then imagined , that with good weather , we might be enabled to join the triangles to the eastward with those of General Roy , and likewise observe the remaining angles in the series , having first made the necessary observations at Dunnose and Beachy Head for obtaining the directions of the meridian .
It had also been foreseen , that it would soon become necessary to , select some spot for the measurement .
of a new base , not only to verify the triangles remote from Hounslow Heath , but likewise to determine the sides of those which might be hereafter projected for the survey of the west of England .
The situation which we had looked forward to , as being the only one which would afford a base line of sufficient extent , was Sedgemoor in Somersetshire , not having then imagined that any place could be found fit for the purpose to the eastward of that situation .
By maturely deliberating upon the steps to be taken for this necessary business , it soon appeared , that Sedgemoor , from its remoteness , would not suit for a base , which was intended to be applied as a test to the sides of the great triangles which were now constituted .
Inquiry was therefore made after a spot which might be less exceptionable ; and as information was obtained that Longham Common , near Poole in Dorsetshire , was likely to afford such a base , we examined it in the January of this year ; but not finding -it fit for the purpose , we proceeded to Salisbury Plain , where we found that a base line of nearly seven miles might be measured without much difficulty between Beacon Hill , near Amesbury , and the Castle of Old Sarum .
With respect to the nature of the ground , as any observations concerning it will be introduced with more advantage when we treat of the particulars of the measurement , it will be only necessary to observe , that prior to determining upon the possibility of measuring it with the necessary accuracy , we considered of the errors which would be likely to creep in from the many hypotenuses which the base would consist of , and from other circumstances which the ground from its inequality might be supposed to produce .
As the principal object of this year 's business was , to deter .
mine the directions of the meridians , the party left London for the Isle of Wight parley in the month of March , that it might arrive at Dunnose in proper time for making the required observations .
The instrument , however , .
was first taken to Motteston Down , for the purpose of intbrsecting many places whose bearings had been last year taken when the instrument was at Rook 's Hill , and which were now wanted by the surveyors of the Ordnance .
This station had been selected for that purpose , and was never intended to become a principal one in the series ; but when the instrument was on the spot , , it was considered as proper that some observations should be made to the stations which were at -that time chosen .
For this reason , when the time for observing the star approached , and most of the lights had been fired without our having seen them , it was not considered of .
consequence to remain there any longer , and the instrument was therefore taken to Dunnose .
A small staff , of about three inches diameter , was erected on Brading Down , which is about six miles from the station , for the purpose of referring the star to it ; a small lamp of six inches diameter , constructed upon the same plan as the large ones , being , when made use of , buckled at the bottom of the staff .
As the best method of obtaining the direction of the meridian , is by observing the star upon each side of the pole , whence the double azimuth is nearly obtained without any correction for the star 's apparent motions , every opportunity was watched , of observing it at the times of its greatest apparent eastern and western elongations .
But in the unsettled season of the month of April , when almost every wind brought a fog over the station , many days elapsed without our seeing either the star or staff ; and it was on that account we conti " nued so long at Dunnose .
As the truth of the deductions must entirely depend on the accurate determination of the directions of the meridians , the greatest care was taken in making the observations .
An hour , and generally more , before the star came to its greatest elongation , the observers repaired to the tent for the purpose of getting the instrument ready .
The method of adjusting it , was first by levelling it in the common way with the spirit level which hangs on the brass pins ; and afterwards , by that which applies to the axis of the transit .
The criterion which determined the instrument to be properly adjusted , was the bubble of the latter level remaining immovable between its indexes , while the circle was turned round the axis .
As the star , four minutes either before or after its greatest elongation , moves only about a second in azimuth , the time was shown sufficiently near , by a good pocket watch , which was regulated as often as opportunities offered .
When the star was supposed to be at its greatest elongation , the observer , if at night , brought it upon the cross wires , and bisected it , leaving equal portions of light on each side of the cross : but if it was in the day , when the star appeared like a point , the telescope was moved in the vertical till it came near the vanishing point of the cross .
At either of these times , when the observer was satisfied of the star being properly bisected , or brought into the vanishing point formed by the wires , another person who had kept his eye at the microscope , bisected the dot .
The transit was then taken off , and the instrument being turned half round , and the telescope replaced , the star was observed again .
This precaution was taken to obviate the errors which might arise , from the arms of the instrument being out of the parallel with the plane of the circle , owing to any imperfections in the position of the Is , on which the transit rested .
It was , however , seldom found , that a greater difference subsisted between the readings of the opposite microscopes , than what might be supposed to be the consequence of a shake in the centre or errors in division .
A mean of the readings was always taken .
It must be also mentioned , that out of twenty , three and four inch white lights , which were fired at Beachy Head , only three of them were seen : but the angle between that place and the staff on Bradin g Down was considered , from the near agreement in the observations , to be determined with the necessary accuracy .
After the business was finished at Dunnose , the instrument was taken to Chanctonbury Ring , and Ditchling Beacon ; and from the latter place to Beachy Head , in order to observe the direction of the meridian ; but after placing a staff upon the high ground above Jevington , wetwere obliged to defer the attempts as it was found , that owing to the effects of heat , the air was not sufficiently steady for the staff to be see-n distinctly , when the star came to its greatest elongationint the day time , if the sun shone out .
We therefore left Beachy Head , and proceeded to the following stations , viz. Fairlight Down , Brightling , Crowborough Beacon , and Botley Hill-H ; 1 from which latter place we returned in June to Beachy Head , and observed the direction of the meridian. .
From this station , the party went to DeanMHill , and thence to Salisbury Plain , for the purpose of fixing on the extremities of the new base .
This being done , the instrument was taken to Old Sarum , Four Mile Stone , Beacon Hill , Thorny Down , and Highclere , where the operations of this year terminated .
But it must be observed , that owing to a strain , which the clamp of the instrument sustained when at Thorney Down , no dependence could be placed on the observations which were made at Highclere .
Upon this being discovered , and the season too far advanced to permit of any business being done after the instrument might be repaired , the party returned to London .
ART .
VII .
Angles taken in the Tear 1793 .
At Motteston Down .
Between 'Mean .
Nine Barrow Down and Dunnose 159 51 2,5 Butser Hill anfl Dunnose 64 41 2 Rook 's Hill and Dunnose 44 57 46 dubious .
At Dunno~e .
Dean Hill and Brading staff 58 '5)38}3 Motteston Down and Brading staff 94 49 19 Nine Barrow Down and Bradingstaff 109 11,5 5S75 Butser Hill and Brading staff _0 15 31,5 Rook 's Hill and Brading staff 24 28 42,5 J44 45,5 Chanctonbury Ring and Brading staff 40 11 44 Beachy Head and Brading staff 60 42 40 42 4115 42,25 1 Hill in its way .
In the observations of the year 1792 , the angle at that station , between Rook 's Hill and Dean Hill , is noted to be dubious .
The reason which induced us to be of that opinion was , that the telescope , by some accident , was thought to have been moved after the observation of the light , and just at the time when the angle was about to be read off .
As the season was then far advanced , and four lights had been fired , without our having seen more than one of them , it was determined to leave the final observation of that angle till this year .
Accordingly upon our arrival at Butser Hill this second time , a lamp was sent to each of the stations , and the angle repeatedly taken , as given in the following article .
The party from thence proceeded to Nine Barrow Down in the Island of Purbeck .
The reason of the businesscommencing so early in the season , arose from the necessity of beginning the measurement of the base on Salisbury Plain , towards the latter end of June , that it might be finished before the year should be far advanced , when the cultivated ground a mile to the northward of Old Sarum would be ploughed .
It was also necessary that the angles at Wingreen and Highclere should be observed .
On account of the magnitude of the 24th and 27th triangles , the instrument was kept at the station in the Island of Purbeck till the angles between Dean Hill and the stations in the Isle of Wight were determined very accurately .
It was , therefore , not till a month after the two first lights were fired , that as many observations were made as we deemed to be sufficient .
As it will answer our purpose better , to give an account of the stations which were chosen this year , for the further prosecution of the survey , in another part of this work it remains only to be observed , that from Nine Barrow Down the instrument was taken to Black Down , near Dorchester , and from thence to Wingreen , Highclere , and Beacon Hill ; the observations which were made this year being concluded at the latter place in the beginning of June .
It may , however , be mentioned , that in addition to the interior stations chosen in the year 1792 , for the future use of the small instrument , three others were selected in this and the preceding season , namely , Ramsden Hill , near Christchurch ; Thorness in the Isle of Wight ; and Stockbridge Hill .
ART .
IX .
Angles taken in the rear 1794 .
At Butser Hill .
Between M Mean .
Rook 's Hill and Dean Hill 56 34 19,75 a 20,5 0.2O 19,75J At Nine Barrow Down .
Dean Hill and Wingreen 39 34 2-7,75 8On25jr2S,7 28,5 Dean Hill and Motteston Down 36 9 55 Dean Hill and Dunnose 6i 57 20,7S } ~ ~~~~ 20.2 0 19 , Lulworth and Bull Barrow 32s } Dean Hill and Bull Barrow 71 31 , 56,54,2.53 due south of the spot on which the beacon was -formerly erected .
Brightling , Sussex .
The station is about 70 feet south-west of the gate belonging to the field in which stands Brightling Windmill .
Beacby Head .
Twelve yards south-west of the Signal-house .
The muzzle of the gun is above the surface of the ground .
Ditchling Beacon , Sussex .
The station is in the middle of a small rising , which has the appearance of having once been a Barrow .
Chanctonbury Ring , Sussex .
This place is near Steyning ; and the station is situated So feet from the ditch on the west side of the Ring .
Rook 's Hill , near Goodwood , Sussex .
The station is east-of the Trundle , and near it .
Butser Hill , Hampshire .
There is no precise way of pointing out the spot on which the instrument was placed : the general situation of it , however , may be known : it is on the middle of the hill , which is itself near , and to the northward of the Fifty-four Mile-stone on the Portsmouth road .
Dunnose , Isle of Wight .
The station is 87 feet northward of Shanklin Beacon : the muzzle of the gun is above the surface of the ground .
Motteston Down , Isle of Wight .
The station is on the west Barrow .
Nine Barrow Down , Isle of Purbeck .
The station on the highest of the Nine Barrows .
Black Down in Dorsetshire .
The station is 23 feet west of the North Barrow .
Black Down is six miles from Dorchester , and near the village of Winterbourn .
Bull Barrow Hill , near Milton Abbey in Dorsetshire .
The station is on the Barrow .
JVingreen , Dorsetshire .
The hill so named , is four miles east of Shaftesbury , and the station is about 8o feet south-west of the Ring , or clump of trees .
Beacon Hill , about two miles from Amesbury , near the Andover road , Wiltshire .
The station may be easily found , as there is a stone whose surface is above that of the ground , placed about lo feet east of it .
Old Sarum .
The station is south-east of the Two Mile-stone , and near it .
A large stone with its surface above that of the ground , is placed i1 feet due west of the station .
Four Mile-stone , Wiltshire .
The station is in the field west of the Four Mile-stone on the Devizes road , leading from Salisbury .
It is on the rising which is in the middle of the field .
Thorney Down , Wiltshire .
The Down is near Winterbourn , and the station to the north of the wood .
Dean Hill , Hampshire .
This place is near the village of Dean , and about 6 miles east of Salisbury : the station is in the north-west corner of a field belonging to Mr. HALIDAY .
Inkpin Beacon , Wiltshire .
This hill is above the village of Inkpin , and the station is in the centre of the small field circumscribed by a ditch and parapet of an ancient fortification .
Highclere , Wiltshire .
The station is in the centre of the Ring on Beacon Hill , about half a mile south-east of Highclere .
Bagshot Heathr .
The station is on the brow of an eminence two miles north of the Golden Farmer , and directly west of the north corner of Bagshot Park .
Hind Head , Surrey .
The station is near the Gibbet , being about 22 feet north-west of it .
The situations of -those stations which are common to this operation and that of General RoY , are not described , the same being done in the LXXXth Volume of the Philosophical Transactions .
As it is probable that some individual will avail himself of the particulars given in this performance , by forming more correct maps of the counties over which the triangles have been carried , and who consequently-may wish to visit certain of thestations , it is proper to observe , that small stakes are placed over the stones sunk in the ground , having their tops projecting a little above it .
For some years there will be little difficulty in finding the stations , as the spots are well known to the nreighbouring inhabitants .
SECTION THIRD .
Measurement of the Base of Ver/ fication on Salisbury Plain with an Hundred Feet Steel Chain , in the Summer of the rear 1794 .
ART .
I. Apparatus provided for the Measurement , and the Method of using particular Articles of it .
The apparatus with which this base was measured arrived at Beacon Hill the 25th of June , and consisted of the two steel chains , the tressels belonging to the Royal Society , and the twenty coffers which were used on Hounslow Heath , together with the pickets , iron-heads , and a few other articles , which in the beginning of this year had been made at the Tower .
As it was foreseen that the truth of this measurement would , in a great degree , depend on the accurate reduction of the several hypotenuses to the plane of the horizon , an application was made to Mr. RAMSDEN in the foregoing winter , to consider of some means by which their inclinations might be obtained .
He therefore applied an arch S to the side of the transit telescope , as exhibited in Tab. XLIII .
which he divided into half degrees ; and opposite to this he placed a microscope T , with a moveable wire in its focus , by means of which , and the micrometer of the telescope , an angle could be taken .
On the first convenient opportunity after the arrival of the apparatus , we determined the value of any number of revolutions of the micrometer-screw in parts of a degree , by the following method .
At the distance of an hundred feet from the transit , a picket was set up , on which a dot was made with chalk , and the instrument being adjusted , was moved by the finger-screw till the edge of the micrometer-wire touched some prominent part of that mark .
The wire in the focus of the microscope was then made to bisect a dot upon the arch , and the telescope moved in the vertical till the next dot was bisected , by which the instrument had described half a degree upon its axis , and the micrometer--wire was afterwards moved till it touched the same part of the chalk mark , the revolutions being counted , which were consequently equal to thirty minutes .
This operation was repeatedly tried , with a picket placed from one to six hundred feet successively from the telescope , the runs of the micrometer-screw being in each case nearly the same , as indeed they ought to be according to theory .
The number of revolutions equal to 30 ' was found , from a mean of these trials , to be i-2 Having determined this , the chains A~and B were compared with each other , when they were found to have the same difference of lengths as when measured by Mr. RAMSDEN .
For the purpose of tracing out the line of the base , as Beacon Hill had a commanding view of almost the whole of it , the instrument was kept in the tent after the observations were finished : and at different times , when the air was sufficiently steady for the purpose , many points in the true direction were found by-bisecting the staff erected at Old Sarum , and moving the transit in the vertical , whilst a person placed a campcolour in the proper situation on the ground , by means of signals which were made at Beacon Hill .
As it appeared , when this spot was first selected for the measurement , that in the course of it there would be frequent necessity for changing the directions of the hypotenuses , a brass bar , of a prismatic form , had been provided , by means of which , and a plumbline , a new direction was easily taken .
The method of using them , was as follows .
A picket was driven into the ground close to the handle of thechain , having its top eight or ten inches above the place where the preceding hypotenuse was to terminate , one of the register-heads , with the bar , being screwed on it .
The chain was then stretched , and the silver wire , or plumb-line , made to pass through the handle , whilst the slider was moved till the wire came upon the dart , marking by this means , the termination of the , hypotenuse .
In order , however , to give a more perfect idea of this matter , a figure is given in Tab. XLV .
where B is the bar , with the wire falling through the handle of the chain , one half of it being left out , for the purpose of showing its coincidence with the arrow on the handle .
The experience which we had obtained in the measurement of the base on Hounslow Heath , led us to discover , that some of the methods we made use of to execute particular parts of it , might have been improved .
One , of them was , the means by which the heads of the pickets were placed in the plane of the base , which frequently was the cause of the planes of the register-heads being out of the direction of the hypotenuses .
In this operation , however , the bottoms , as well as the tops of them , were placed in the true vertical by means of the transitinstrument , and therefore it was not difficult to bring the planes of their tops into the required position .
For the purpose of using the transit as a boning telescope , as well as an instrument for taking the angles of elevation or depression , Mr. RAMSDEN provided two mahogany boards , one of which was fastened to the register-head , and the other ( furnished with levelling screws ) rested upon it , the transit-instrument being placed on the latter .
The level belonging to the transit was then hung on the arms and if the axis proved to be horizontal , which tit would be if the brass heads were rightly placed , the instrument required no farther adjustment ; but if that did not prove to be the case , the axis was made parallel to the horizon by the screws of the levelling-board , which were turned in contrary directions , having in the first instance been worked till within half the limits of their adjustment .
By this means the axis was kept at a constant height from the brass heads .
A board with a cross piece , whose upper edge from the bottom of it was equal to the distance of the axis of the instrument fromh the head of the picket , was placed on another picket which had been driven till its head was at a convenient height in the plane of the base , and the transit moved in the vertical till the edge of the wire in the centre of the glass , coincided with that of the cross piece .
The rest of the pickets in that hypotenuse were then driven into the ground , till their tops were in the same right line , as discovered by the application of this board to their heads .
The method of determining the angles which the measured lines made with the plane of the horizon was as follows .
After the hypotenuse was measured , the transit-instrument .
with its boards were placed on the picket , and the levellingscrews moved as before described , if the axis did not happen to be horizontal .
The cross board , upon which a black line was drawn whose breadth was about twice the apparent thickness of the micrometer-wire , and its distance from the bottom of it equal to that of the axis of the instrument from the register-head , was placed on another picket in the hypotenuse , having the brass head which had been before fixed on it still remaining .
The telescope-was then made horizontal , the index of the micrometer being placed to the zero on its circle , and the wire-of the microscope set to bisect that dot on the arch which was nearest to the centre of the field .
After this , the telescope was moved in the vertical by the finger-screw , till another dot was bisected , at the same time that the line upon the cross board appeared in the glass , by which the angle that the instrument had described on its axis , was measured in half degrees .
The remaining part of the angle , or rather the fractional part of an half degree , was measured by the micrometer , the wire of which was brought from the centre of the glass to bisect the black line , and was either added to , or subtracted from , the former quantity , as the angle described by the telescope fell short of , or exceeded , that formed by the hypotenuse and the plane of the horizon .
By this method , all the angles of elevation and depression , were taken .
And we consider it as probable that they are within a quarter of a minute of the truth ; since the instrument was capable of being used with great accuracy , the arch having been divided by one of Mr. .
RAMSDEN 's best workmen , ana the value of one , or any number of revolutions of the micrometer-screw , had been accurately obtained .
If , therefore , any considerable errors have taken place in this part of the operation , they must have arisen from the axis of the transit-instrument and the line on the cross board not being of the same height from the brass heads on which they were placed : but we think there is almost a certainty that this difference was -confined to such limits as will not introduce any errors of con- ' sequence ; for even supposing the register-heads were placedl on the pickets so unskilfully that it became necessary to turn the screws on the levelling-board as much as they were capable of , Whilst the third remained unmoved , in order to adjust the transit , the error introduced on that account would be only half a minute , even though the hypotenuse should consist of but one chain , and be inclined to the horizon eight degrees .
We therefore think ourselves justified in the opinion which we , entertain of these angles being determined with sufficient accuracy ; since , if an error of one minute had taken place in the inclination of each hypotenuse , and those errors lay all one way , the length of the base , as hereafter given , would only be varied three inches by that-circumstance .
it may , perhaps , be imagined that some small errors have arisen from the handle of the chain not lying flat upon the brass heads when the new directions have been commenced .
To obviate this , precautions were always taken to-drive the pickets at the termination of the hypotenuses in such a manner , that the arrow on the handle could be made to coincide A3Q2 with one of the divisions near the end of the brass scale , by which any error arising from their not being exactly in the same vertical plane , was rendered so trifling as not to be worth notice .
1laving now related , with as much conciseness as the subject will admit , the methods which were adopted for the execution of the most essential parts of this operation , there remain only a few other particulars to be related before we give the reduction of the base .
After as many points as were judged necessary had been fixed in the true direction , by the means heretofore described , and the chains compared with each other , the mensuration was begun , and continued without much interruption for seven weeks , when it was finished with that part of the 366th chain which terminated its apparent length .
The method taken to mark this last mentioned chain , was by cutting a small hole in the bottom of the coffer , through which a plumb-line was made to pass , the point of the plummet being brought over the end of the base , and the chain moved till it touched the wire ; a slight scratch was then made with a file at the point of contact .
On the first favourable opportunity , subsequent to this conclusion of the measurement , thd chains A and B were compared with each other , when it was found that the wear of the former , by the constant use of it , was only , one division of the micrometer head , or Both of an inch .
The smallness of this quantity in the measurement of a base of such great length , was doubtless owing to the pivots , and pivot holes of the joints being smoothed , and as it were polished , in the operation on Hounslow Heath ; and it may also be adduced as some proof , that the joints had not rusted while the chains remained in the Tower ; but to prevent this , care had been taken to de .
posite them in a dry place , being afterwards frequently examinied and oiled .
Thus concluded the measurement of this base , in which it is certain that great -pains were taken to produce an accurate result ; and we are not without hopes , that the many obstacles which offered themselves have been surmounted with success ; but this is left to the decision of the candid and intelligent reader .
The following table contains the particulars of this opera- .
tion .
The first column showing the number of hypotenuses ; the second , that of the chains in each hypotenuse ; the third , the observed angles of elevation or depression given to the nearest lo " ; the fourth and fifth , the perpendiculars answering to the elevations and depressions ; the sixth , the reduction of the hypotenuses to the horizontal lines , or the versed sines of the elevations and depressions to the hypotenuses as radii ; the seventh and eighth , the perpendicular distance between the termination and beginning of any two hypotenuses when a new direction was commenced above or below .
AlT .
Ili .
Reduction of the Base measured on Salisbury Plain , to the Temperature of 620 .
The overplus of the 366th chain was measured by Mr. RAMSDEN , and found to be 9,939 feet ; thereeet .
fore the apparent length of the base was 36590,061 By the measurement in the Duke of Marlborough 's riding-house , the chain A was found to exceed too feet in the temperature of 5g , by 0,1 4245 inches ; to which adding half the wear , namely , L-64 inch , we get 0,11617 feet for the excess of the chain 's length 9 12~~~~~~~1 above a oo feet : therefore OlxlZ67 X 65.,9 ( chains)= $~~~~~ 3,542 feet , is the correction for excess and wear ; which add + 3'4g The sum of all the degrees shown by the thermometers , was 146051 ; wherefore 14056 540 x 365,9 5X2 52 =,5,232 feet , is the correction for the mean heat in which the base was measured above 540 , the temperature to which the chainswere reduced ; and this add -+ 5,232 Hence these corrections , added to the apparent length , give -36598,835 Again , for thetredutction-to the temperature of 6 !
v , viz. for 80 on the brass scale , we have 0,01237 X365,9x8o 3,017 feet ; which subtract 3,017 Ey the tables , the sum of the Versed sines of the hypotenuses , or the corrections for reducing them to the plane of the horizon , is 20,9i6 feet ; and this subtract 20,916 36574,902 The sum of the corrections , for the reduction of the several horizontal lines from the height of the different hypotenuses above the centre of the earth , to the height of Beacon H-lill above ditto , is 0,521 feet ; this add + 0,501o Therefore the apparent length of the base , as reduced to the level of Beacon Ilill , is feet 36575,401 But it swill be hereafter shown , that the height of Beacon Hill above the sea is 690 feet nearly , and that of King 's Arbour i 18 , and of Hampton Poor House 86 feet ; therefore the height of Beacon i-Hill above the mean point between King 's Arbour and Hampton Poor House , is 588 feet , or 98 fathoms .
Now as the -base thus reduced , may be supposed to have been measured 98 fathoms farther from the centre of the earth , than that on Hounslow Heath , it must be reduced to the same level .
Therefore if we take 3481794 fathoms for the mean semi-diameter , and add 98 fathoms to it , we shall get the length by this proportion , viz. 34818929 3481794 : : 36575,4 36574,4 , the length of the base nearly .
With respect to that step by which the base is reduced to the level of Beacon Hill , or the correction 0,50 foot is obtained , it will be proper to show on what principle it is founded .
In the adjoining figure , let B a , ' a e , e C. and c0 be the several hypotenuses , or measured lines ; then will the sum of the corrections fortheir reduction to etd the plane oftlthe horizon , 'as given in the table , exhibit that of the differences between the horizontal lines , b a , d of c , h 0 , and their corresponding hypo. .
tenuses .
Again , with the radius C ; B , C being the centre of the earth , describe the arc B I , ; or that subtended by the base , and through the terminations of the several hypotenuses , draw the lines C A , C D , C H , and CI ; then will the lines B A , A D , DH and HI be those to which the horizontal ones b a , d e , f c , and h0 are to be reduced , and which may therefore be done by the proportions of the lines , C a , C e , C c , and C 0 , to the constant radius C B. Upon this principle , the correction oSot foot has been obtained , and which is the sum of the differences between the lines b a , d of c , and h 0 , and their corresponding ones in the arc B I. ART .
IV .
Height of Beacon Hill above the Southern Extremity of the Base .
The sum of the perpendiculars or elevations in Feet .
the fourth column , is 9218,697 And of the depressions in the fifth column 634,8222 Therefore the depressions exceed the elevations 416,1285 The difference of the'sums in the seventh and eighth columns , is , in feet -S Hence the sum is the height of the beginning of the first chain above the end of the last , namely , 42948 But the handle of the chain at Beacon Hill was 6,7 feet above the stone , and at the other end it was 1,3 feet ; therefore their difference is 5,4 feet , which subtract Hence the surface of the stone at Beacon Hill is higher than the surface of the stone at Old Sarum .
424,08 ART .
V. Conclusion of this Section .
When this situation was first examined , and selected for the measurement , it was imagined that one of the extremities of the base would be fixed on somewhere near the southernmost clump of fir trees , not far from the Amesbury road , because from that spot Highclere can be seen .
Those trees are near the 52d hypotenuse , and therefore about a mile from Beacon Hill ; consequently , if that situation had been fixed on , the base would have been non more than six miles , and the correction for the reduction of the hypotenuses to the plane of the horizon only about 16 feet .
Now , although we think that the fixing on Beacon Hill as the northern extremity , is justified from the circumstance of a mile being added to the base , which is conceived to be more than a counterbalance for any errors , which may arise from measuring down the side of a hill ; there were other reasons which made it proper ; a principal one is , that by selecting that spot , the base can be applied as a test to the triangles , without making the connection by means of several small ones ; and another is , that if a place near the trees had been fixed on , a station must afterwards have been chosen on Beacon , IR Q Hill , in order to have a view of Long Knoll , near Maiden Bradley , and Inkpin Beacon towards H-lungerford .
We shall now close this section by observing , that the measurement of ' this base has been almost without an alternative , since Sedgemoor , the .
only spot , west of Salisbury proper for an operation of this kind , is about to be enclosed .
Therefore had we not adopted this expedient , the triangles which may hereafter be carried on to the remote parts of the west of England , would probably have depended on the Ilounslow Heath base .
But we are led to believe , that this base has been measured with nearly the same accuracy which would have attended the operation , had the ground been nearly level ; since there is a certainty of the angles , formed by the hypotenuses and the plane of the horizon , being determined within a minute of the truth .
Now if an error of a minute in those inclinations , supposing them all to lie the same way , produce only that of three inches in the whole base , it may be concluded that 36574,4 is very nearly its true length .
SECTION FOURTH .
Calculation of the Sides of the great Triangles .
ART .
I. Of the Division of the Series into d~yerent Branches .
In order to methodize the contents of this section , it has been considered as proper to divide the series into different branches , as the triangles of which they are composed seem naturally to resolve themselves into distinct classes .
The first branch , is that which immediately connects the base of departure on Hounslow Heath , with that of verification on Salisbury Plain , and is bounded by the sides connecting the stations , Hanger Hill , St. Ann 's Lill , Bagshot Heath , Highclere , Beacon lill , and Four Mile-stone on the north , and on the south side by Four Mile-stone , Dean Hill , Butser Hill , Hind IHead , Leith Hill , and Banstead .
The second branch , is that which proceeds from the side 1H-ind Head and Leith Hill , to the coast of Sussex and the Isle of Wight , and principally affords the sides which will be hereafter used in finding the distance between Beachy Head and Dunnose .
This branch also proceeds westward for the survey of the coast , and is bounded by the sides connecting the stations Leith Hill , Hind Head , Butser Hill , Dean Hill , and Wingreen on the north , and on the south by those connecting the stations Nine Barrow Down , Motteston , Down , Dunnose , Rook 's Hill , Chanctonbury Ring , and Ditchling Beacon .
The third branch , , is that which proceeds from the side Hanger Hill and Banstead , to Botley Hill and Leith Fill , and from thence towards Beachy Head and Brightling , joining the series formerly projected at Botley IHilt and Fairlight Downn ; the branch being bounded to the westward by the sides connectina the stations 1langer Hill , Banstead , Leith Hill , Ditchling Beacon , and Beachy Head .
The fourth branch , or remaining class of triangles , is that by which the distance between Beachy Head and Dunnose is , obtained , and is formed by the sides connecting the stations Beachy HIead , Ditchling Beacon , Chanctonbury Ring , Rook 's , Hill , and Dunnose .
ART .
11 .
Of the Selection of the Angles constituting the principal Triangles , and the Manner of reducing them for Computation .
The angles of the several triangles , constituting the general series , are , with a very few exceptions , those arising from using the means of the several observations given in the fore- .
going-part of this work ; for although the rejecting of such as might apparently suit the purpose , would give the sums of the three angles of many of the triangles , nearer to 18o degrees plus the computed excess ; yet as all the observations have been made with equal care , and are for the most part to be considered as of equal accuracy , it has been thought proper to select those means , as being the fairest mode of proceeding .
If the observations had been made on a sphere of'known magnitude , and the angles accurately taken , the most natural method of computing the sides of the triangles from the measured bases , would be by spherical trigonometry ; but if the magnitude was such , that the length of a degree of a great circle was equal to a degree of the meridian in these latitudes nearly , in orderto obtain the sides true to a foot from such computation , with any facility , a table of the logarithmic sines of small arcs computed to every Io of a second of a degree , would be necessary , because the length of a second of a degree on the meridian is about ioo feet .
As the lengths of small arcs and their chords are nearly the same ( the difference in these between Beachy Head and Dunnose being less than 1 feet ) it is evident this business might be performed sufficiently near the truth in any extent of a series of triangles , by plane trigonometry , if the angles formed by the chords could be determined pretty exact .
We have endeavoured to adopt this method in computing the sides of the principal triangles , in order to avoid an arbitrary correction of the observed angles , as well as that of reducing the whole extent of the triangles to a flat , which evidently would introduce erroneous resllts , and these in proportion as the series of triangles extended .
The length of a degrees on the meridian in these latitudes being about 60874 fathoms , and that of a degree perpendicular to the meridian , about 6i183 ; it follows , that the values of all the oblique arcs are between these extremes : now having obtained the sides of the triangles within a few feet by a rough computation , we take their values in parts of a degree , nearly as their inclinations to the meridian ; this proportion , though not found on an ellipsoid , is sufficiently true for finding the values of the sides of the triangles ; for in this case great accuracy is not necessary .
With the sides thus determined , we compute the three angles of each triangle by spherical trigonometry ; and taking twice the natural sines of half the arcs , we get , by plane trigonometry , the angles formed by the -chords ; , then , from the differences of these angles we 'infer the corrections to be applied to the observed angles , to reduce them for computation : an example , however , will make this matter much plainer ; for which purpose .
we shall take the very oblique triangle formed by the stations Beachy ` Head Chanctonbury Ring , and Rook 's Hill .
Arc [ Rook 's Hill and B. Head 39 ' 7 " 113785156 between Ch. Ring and B. Head s5 47 chords 75000501 Rook 's Hill and Ch. Ring 14 0J 40724320 Hence the angles by spherical trigonometry will be At Chanctonbury Ring 157 5 36,29 Rook 's HIill lo 17 58,32 Beachy Head 7 42 26,56 And the angles formed by the chords 157 29 -7,4+ 14 18 3,44 7 42 29,12 The respective differences are in the fourth column ( triang .
xxxix .
) In like manner the other differences in , the same column have been obtained .
We have given the results to the second place in decimals , though perhaps they are true only to the nearest 2of a second .
In finding the angles formed by the chords , we have used RHETICUS 's large Triangular Canon , where the natural sines are given to every lo " of the quadrant , and computed to the radius iQOoCoooOQo .
It is remarked , that great accuracy in the values of the sides in the degrees , &amp;c. is not necessary , and that this is true will be found on examination ; for in the foregoing example , if the sides of the triangle be varied , so that the resulting angles are several minutes different from those found above , still the differences between the spherical and plane triangles will be very nearly the same .
When the three angles of any triangle appear to have been observed correctly , by their sum being equal to i8o degrees plus the computed excess , the corrections for the dhord angles have been added to , or taken from them , as that correction has been negative or affirmative , and the triangle rendered fit for computation .
Also , if in any triangle , where the sum has either fallen short of , or exceeded i8o degrees plus the computed excess , one or two of the observed angles have appeared to have been determined with sufficient accuracy , as shown by the agreement of the angles obtained upon different parts of the arch ; the corrections for the chord angles have been added to , or taken from them , and the remaining angle or angles considered as erroneous .
In the case of one angle being supposed right , and the other two wrong , the errors have been considered equal between the latter , unless the sum of the angles round the horizon at one of the stations , has indicated , that either the whole , or the greatest part of the excess or defect , was due to a particular angle .
Likewise , when any triangle has been found in excess or defect , and all the angles have appeared to be determined with equal accuracy , the corrections for the reduction to the angles formed by the chords have been first applied , and then the errors considered equal .
What is called the spherical excess in the fifth column , is computed according to the rule , page 171 .
Phil. Transac .
Vol. LXXX .
These excesses above 180 ?
would , of course , be exactly the same as the respective sums of the differences in the fourth column , if both were not obtained from approximating rules .
It is almost unnecessary to remark , that no computations have been attempted with the chords of the sides of the lesser triangles in the principal series .
ART .
III .
BRANCH I. Consisting of thel Triangles which connect the Base of Departure on Hounslow Heath with that of Verification on Salisbury Plain , being bounded by the Sides connecting the Stations , Hanger Hill , St. Ann 's Hill , Bagshot Heath , Highclere , Beacon Hill , and Four Mile-stone on the North ; and on the South Side , by those connecting the Stations Dean Hill , Butser Hill , Hind Head , Leith Hill , and Banstead .
Distance from King 's Arbour to Hampton Poor House , 27404,2 Feet .
No. Observed SpheriAngles of Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. cal Error .
corrected Distances .
triangles excess .
for calculation .
_~~~~~~~~~~~ .
F e ... __ ... --,._ ... _.1 x. St. Ann 's Hill 44 i8 S2 #ot 44 Feet .
Hampton Poor House 61 26 34,5 6i z6 33,75 ing'sArbour 74 14 35,25 74 14 34,5 ISO 0 72 0,21 1+ 1,79 St. Ann 's Hill fromf Hampton Poor House 7753 King 's Arbour ^ 34455,2 iI .
IBanstead 25 15 42,251 1 25 15 41 King 's Arbour 71 46 23,25 71 46 22 St. Ann 's Hill 82 57 58,2s 82 57 57 I8o o 3o,6 1+ 3 , 13 Banstead King 's Arbour 80131,6* St. Ann 's Hill 76687,7 xi l. Hanger Hill 24 39 i6 , 24 39 16,5 Hampton PoorHouse130 3 3,25 130 3 3 , St. Ann 's Hill }25 17 40,75 25 17 40,5 180 0 0,5 o,26 + 0,24 Hanger Hill tf Hamnpton Poor House 38670,0 LSt .
Ann 's Hill -69278,3* And those mean distances of St. Ann 's Hill and Banstead , and Hind Head and Bagyshot with the 14 and i5th triangles ( exclude ing the i6 and 17th ) , will produce 36574,6 , and 36574,9 respect tively .
LastlV ; -if the computations are carried directly from one base to the other , independent of the mean distances and the 14 and i5th triangles , the greatest and least results will be 36574,8 , and 36573,8 , the mean being 36574,3 feet , or about an inch short of the measurement .
Of the several ways by which the base of verification , or distance between Beacon Hill and Old Sarum is deduced , the first seems to have the preference , because the angles of the 6 and 7th triangles appear to have been observed very correctly The results from the 14 and i5th triangles cannot be considered as very conclusive , because the angle at Highclere is so acute that a trifling error in it will vary the distance from Beacon Hill to Thorney Do n very considerably : and we had some reasons for being dissatisfied with this angle , and also that in the same triangle at Thorney Down , on account of the strain in the clamp .
See Sect. ii .
Art .
VI- .
Although the result of this comparison might afford some reason for supposing , that the sides of the triangles in this branch would be sufficiently near the truth , were all of them computed from thebase on Hounslow HReath , yet , to approach more nearly to their correct distances , those which are marked with asterisks , have been computed with each base , and a mean of the results taken .
The remaining sides have been determined by the bases in their vicinity .
these triangles been-considered as independent of those in the first branch , and the side Hind Head and Leith Hill been used as derived from the base on Hounslow Heath , nearly the same conclusions would have taken place ; for the distance between Beacon Hill and Old Sarum would in that case be 36574,2 feet , which is only two and an half inches less than the measured base .
This may be considered as a proof , that the angles of the triangles forming this branch are sufficiently correct , since the series which Joins the two bases by this route , is nearly an hundred and twenty miles in extent .
Some little variation in that result might be produced by a different correction of the angles of the 24th triangle : but as the atigle at Butser Hill must bevery nearly true , the other angles cannot , on any reasonable supposition , be so corrected as to make the computed base differ from the measured one more than six inches .
ART .
VI .
BRATCu III .
Proceeding from the Side Hanger Hill and B-anstead to Botley Hill and Leith Hill , and from thence to Brightling and Beachy Head , joining the Triangles with those of the late General Roy , at Botley Hill and Fairlight Down , being bounded to the westward by the Sides connecting the Stations Hanger Hill , Banstead , Leith Hill , Ditchling Beacon , and Beachy Head .
Hanger Hill from Banstead 77547,4 Feet .
No.of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. T cal Error .
for calculation .
I Distances .
excess .
Xxx .
Shooter 's Hill 54 43 49,75 54 43 49,25 Hanger Hill 6z I 85o 6z 1 49,5 Banstead 62 57 22 6z 57 21,25 ISO 0 1,75 1,4 +0,35 Shoter 's Hill Hanger Hill __ 84596,3 S Banstead 84107 the read'iest , and indeed almost the only means of comparing independent deductions from both operations ; the triangle St. Ann 's Hill , King 's Arbour , Hampton Poor House excepted .
The distances from the station at the Hundred Acres to St. Ann 's Hill and Botley Hill , according to General Roy ( see the 4th and 9th triangles in his account ) are 79211 , ,22 and 48726,75 feet ; and from the 4th , 5th , and 9th triangles it appears , that the included angle at that station is 169 ? ?
25 ' Q1",25 ; these give 127424,3 feet for the distance of St. Ann 's Hill and Botley Hill ; this distance , however , is deduced from the base on Hounslow Heath , supposing it to be 27404,7 feet ; but its mean length , according to both measurements , being 27404,2 feet , we shall have 27404,7 : 27404,2 : : 127424,3 : 127422 feet , for the distance of the stations from that mean length of the base .
According to our observations , the distances of St. Ann 's Hill and Botley .
Hill from Leith Hill are 88019,8 and 92632,2 feet respectively , and the included angle for computation at Leith Hill 89 ' 40 ' 32 " ; hence , from our triangles , the distance of the stations will be 127420 feet ; which is 2 feet less than that from General Roy 's triangles .
Before we compute the distance from Botley Hill to Fairlight Down , -it will be necessary to premise , that an error has crept into 'General Roy 's reduction of the measured base on Romney Marsh ( see Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
) ; which , however , cannot be discovered without consulting his account of the measurement of the other base on Hounslow Heath .
We are informed ( page 131 , Vol. LXXX .
) , that when thenew points on the chain were laid off from the original points on the great plank in Mr. RAMSDEN'S shop , FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer was at 55 " , but the temperature is omitted when those points in the plank were transferredfrom the brass st* ?
dard .
, The " original points " must be those alluded to in the General 's account of the Hounslow Heath base ( Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXV .
p. 40o3 ) , which were fixed in the plank from the brass standard in the temperature of 63 ; but it is probable that General Roy supposed them to have been transferred in 62 ' , and , through mistake , subtracted the sum of the two first corrections in page 131 , instead of their difference , which in that case would have been the true correction for the contraction of the chain .
The error however , is about 33 inches : for since the chain in the temperature of If was equal to 0oo feet of the brass standard in that of 63 , it follows , from the table of expansions in the General 's account of the Hounslow Heath base , that its length in SyIwas equal to loo feet of the brass standard in 62 ?
; and therefore 530-A is the tempera.ture to which the measurement by the chain should be reduced .
Now the apparent length being 258,36736 chains , and 68290,5 the sum of all the degrees shown by the thermometers in the table , page 134 , we have 285,36736 x 53 068290 ?
5X , oo763 inches = 12,8 inches , the contraction below 5Ads this , with the other corrections applied to the apparent length , give 28535 feet 8 inches , instead of 28532 feet '1 inches .
To determine the distance from Hollingbourn Hill to Fairlight Down from this base ( 28535,66 feet ) by means of the fewest triangles , we suppose , according to General Roy ( page 177 ) that the observed angle at Hollingbourn Hill , between Allington Knoll and Fairlight Down , was 480 566 ' 15 , and reduce it to 48 ' 56 ' 3o " for computation ; then from the 24th , 23d , and 22d triangles , and the triangle Hollingbourn Hill 480 56 ' so " Allington Knoll 88 25 44 Fairlight Down 42 37 46 we get 141759,6 feet for the distance of Hollingbourn Hill and Fairlight Down .
The distance of those stations as deduced from the other base ( 27404,7 ) is 141748,5 ( see remarks in Vol. LXXX .
p. 595 ) ; hence 27404,7 : 27404,2 141748,5 : 141746 feet nearly their distance from the mean of the measurements on Hounslow Heath ; therefore the mean distance resulting from both bases Is 141753 feet nearly .
Now with this distance , and the i3th , 12th , and 1 th triangles , we shall find the distance from Hollingbourn Hill to Botley Hill 1,50971 feet ; and the angle at Llollingbourn Hill , between Botley Hill and Fairlight Down 880 27 ' 0,25 ; these will give the distance from Botley Hill to Fairlight Down &gt; 20427X5 feet .
To determine\this line from our triangles , we have 92632,2 and 117190,4 feet for the distances of Botley Hill and Ditchling Beacon from Leith Hill ; also 1o0232,4 and 98513,7 feet for the distances of Ditchling Beacon and Fairllght Down from BRachy Head ; from these , with the included angles at Leith Hill and Beachy Head , we find Ditchling Beacon from Botley Hill 139567,4 , and from Fairlight Down 167986,5 feet , and the included angle at Ditchling Beacon 820 41 ' 6")8 ; hence the distance from Botley Hill to Fairlight Down will be 204276 feet nearly .
So near an agreement in a length of alinost 39 miles , can only be attributed to chance .
Hence it appears , that a difference of 5 or 6 feet in about 027 miles ( the distance of the stations Hollingbourn Hill and Fairlight Down ) , may be supposed in General Roy 's deductions on account of the variations , or corrections in the bases on Hounslow Heath , and Romney Marsh ; this difference , however , is too trifling to be of consequence in any of his principal conclusions .
ART .
VIII .
BRANCH IV .
Consisting of the nearest Triangles to the northward of Beachy Head and Dunnoseforfinding the Distance between those Stations .
No. of Observed Spheri-c Angles corrected triangles .
Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. cal Error .
for calculation .
excess .
08 / 1 f/ 1 If II , 1t XXXVI I IDunnose 15 43 0+ '55 15 43 0,5 Rook 's Hill 137 L6 48 5 3,88 137 i6 4,4 Chanctonbury Ring 27 o 13 + 137 27 15 I80 0 i 's 5,96 o,46 By this triangle , using the distance from Rook 's Hill to Chanctonbury Ring as found by the first branch , we get the distance between Rook 's Hill and Dunnose , 1feet ; but by the same branch , 143558,9 feet was found to be the distance ; and if the side Butser Hill and -Dean Hill be made the base , we shall get , by the 22d and Qd triangles , the distance from Rook 's Hill to Dunnose 143557,1 feet : hence 143558,4 , the mean of these three distances with the above triangle , give 214498,4 feet , for the distance between Dunnose and Chanctonbury Ring .
No. of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles .
Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. cal Error .
for calculations excess .
XL1 .
Beachy Head o 46 53 0,2 20 46 5 2,75 Rook 's Hill rzz 59 14S 7,7 122 59 8 Dunnose 36 13 58 + 1,17 36 13 59,25 .
_________i lSo 0 __A____ ___ ______ I 80 ? ?
5 ' 5 : 6,77 1,27 XLII .
Dunnose 20 30 58 o,86 20 30 58,75 Chanctonbury Ring 130 59 37,75 8,77 130 59 29 Beachy Head 28 29 30 + 1,92 28 29 32,25 s80 0 5,75 6 , oI _ o2z6 give the four distances of Beachy Head from Dunnose , as beneath ; 339394,6X 339395,0 1 ( -feet .
339399 , 1 33940 1,5J Hence 339397,6 , the mean , may be considered as very nearly the true distance .
In the correction of the angles of the triangles which compose -this branch , we have been a little more particular than with the others of the series , as it is of much consequence that the distance between Beachy Head and Dunnose should not be left doubtful .
In the 42d triangle , it must be observed , that there is a de .
fact of -L ' nearly in the sum of the observed angles ; in the 38th , about { a second ; and in the 4ist , a defect of about ill4 : the sum in the 39th is nearly right , but the angles of it are considered as residuary , or remaining angles ; the triangle being too oblique to be admitted as a principal one in the series , though numbered and inserted as such .
, to Se Now it is evident , that if all the angles of the four triangles contained in the quadrilateral formed by the stations on Dunnose , Rook 's Hill , Chanctonbury Ring , and Beachy Head , were accurately corrected for computation , the distance from Beacby Head to Dunnose would be found the same from .
each triangle , by making use of the side Rook 's Hill and Chanctonbury Ring ( which is common to the two most oblique ones ) : therefore , having assumed that distance , we found by computation , that if each of the above errors is supposed to be in one angle only of the respective triangles , these angles must be the three observed ones , namely , 28 ' 29 ' 30 " ; 270 o ' 1s " ; and 1220 59 ' 14'",5 ; these are augmented accordingly , before the angles are finally corrected for computation .
The angles of the 39th triangle , resulting from those of the other triangles , are Chanctonbury Ring S70 59 ' 51",25 Rook 's Hill 14 17 32,75 Beachy Head _7 42 37,2 ; 5 before they are reduced to the angles formed by the chords .
Observed Sj'heAngles corNames of stations .
angles .
rical rected for Distances .
excess .
calculation .
o l , , , Feet .
Bull Barrow 84 31 24 Nine Barrow Down 39 58 19,25 38 68 18,75 Black Down 630 S 8 , ]5 56 g3o 7,25 Black Down { Nine Barrow Down 126781,2 Bull Barrow 8o 1o3,6 With respect to this last triangle , it must be observed , that in the future prosecution of the survey , the side Bull Barrow and Blackdown will be obtained by another method , the result of which , when combined with that given by this triangle , will afford a more accurate means of determining other distances which will hereafter depend upon it .
This triangle , and likewise the rest of them in this article , are inserted here , as the distances deduced from them are supposed to be nearly true ; they may possibly be of some service at present ; but at a fuiture period they will be given in a more perfect state .
SECTION V. Of the Direction of the Meridians at Dunnose and Beachy Head ; and the Lengtb of a : Degree of agreat Circle , perendicular to the Meridian , in Latitude o 4 " .
ART .
II Of the Direction , of the Meridian at Dunnose:wit~ respect to Brading Staff .
On April 28th in the afternoon , the angle between the pole star , when at its greatest apparent elongation from the meridian , and the staff , was- , observed -24 4 23 And on April 29th in the morning 18 24 o Wherefore half their sumn is the angle 'between the -meridian and Brading ltaff ; namely ?
1 i4 11,5 On May 12th , in the afternoon , the angle between the star and staff was observed 24 4 29,5 &lt; nd on May ith , in the morning1 0 53,25 Wherefore half their sum is the angle between the meridian and Brading staffnamely 21 14 1 Hence 210 41 ' 1 " , S , may be taken for ' the angle between the meridian,.and Bradingstaff , as- , determined by the double azimuths .
The apparent -polar distancesof the star , on those days which do not refer to corresponding observations on the oppomSite side of .
the meridian , are as follow : Azim .
A0 I -I rwhich , with the lat. of !
4a April22dst 1 47 57i2 Dunnose , viz. 50037i 8 " 25 1 , ril 2d ' 47 57'4 nearlyO 1 May,5th i 48 o uth.'give he.ayzi 2 5O 161 , K7 " mut -for those dysi ; And these subtracted from the observed angles G ( see Sect. ii .
Art .
vii .
) give I. 21 14 1 045 The mean of which is 210 14 ' 1O',3 for the angle between the meridian and the staff , which is a little more than 1"l difg ferent .
from that obtained by the double azimuths ; we shall , however , take a 14 ' 1 " l for the true angle .
ART .
II .
Of the Direction of tide Meridian at Beachy Head with respect to Jevington Staff .
On August 1st , in the morning , the angle be , tween the pole star and the staff was observed 24 38 2 0,25 And at night 3g 19 49,5 Therefore half their sum is the angle between the meridian and Jevington staff , namely 27 29 5 On August 2d , at night , the angle between the star and staff was observed 30 19 50,25 And on August 3d , in the morning 24 38 23,5 Therefore half their sum is the angle between the meridian and , Jevington staff , namely 27 29 7 Hence 270 29 ' 6"t , the mean by the double azimuths , may be taken as the angle between the meridian and the staff .
The apparent polar distances of the star , on those days which do not refer to corresponding observations on the opposite side of the meridian , are as follow : Azim .
R. ; V0 i5thi48 4,61 which , with the latitude of 2 50 49,4 I L6th 14 ~I '2 50 49,1 July , 1 48 29 Beachy HEead , viz. , o 42 2g6th 1 I &amp; 93 50 4L 3oth 1 48 2 ' nearly gve the azi5047 Aug.i Ph1 4759,3 muths for those days ~ 4~ Aug : ith 4 5PI L25041 9 29 5,1 27 29 8,4 And these applied to the observed angles , give ' 27 29 5,7 127 29 5,2 L27 29 6,25 The mean of which is 270 29 ' 6 " , 1 , for the angle between the meridian and Jevington staffl being the same as that obtained from a mean of the double azimuths .
ART .
Iii .
Determination of the Length oJ a Degree of a great Circle , perpendicular to the Meridian , in Latitude 500 41'/ In Tab. XLV .
fig. 1 .
let D and B be Dunnose and Beachy Head , and P the pole , forming the spheroidical triangle DP B ; and let C and A be the staffs at Jevington and Brading Down , respectively .
Now the angle at Dunnose , between the meridian and the staff , or PD A , was found by the e , , , double azimuths to be 21 14 1,5 And the angle between the staff and the station on Beachy 'Head , or ADB 6o 42 41,5 Therefore their sum is the angle between the meridian and the station on Beachy Head , or PD B ; which is 81 56 53 Again ; at Beachy Head the angle between the meridian and the staff , or PB C , was found by the double azimuths to bq 7 29 6 And the angle between the staff and the station on Dunnose , or CBD 69 26 52 Therefore their sum is the angle between the-meridian and the station on Dunnose , namely 96 Si 58 $X X Hence , in the spheroidical triangle DPB , we have the angles PDB and PBDgiven .
Again .
in fig. 2 .
let PGM be the meridian of Greenwich ; then , if MB be the parallel to the perpendicular at G , Greenwich , we shall get ( by Sect. v i. Art .
iIi .
) MB= 58848 feet , and GM= 269328 feet ; therefore , .
taking 6o851 fathoms for the length .
of the degree on the meridian , as derived from the difference of latitude between Greenwich and Paris , applied to the measured arc ( see Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
) we get G M ; =44 ' 15",26 ; consequently the latitude of the point M , ( that of Greenwich being 51 28 ' 40 " ) , is 0 44 ' 24",74 ; and the co-lat .
PM 39,26 .
With respect to the value of the arc M B , for the present purpose , it is not of consequence on what hypothesis it be obtained ; but if 61173 fathoms be assumed for the length of a , degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian at M , then MB =9 ' 37",1g , and the latitude of B , or Beachy Head , will be found5= 44 ' 23",71 .
Again ; in fig. 3 .
let WB be the arc of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian of Beachy Head at -B , meeting that of Dunnose in W ; and let DR be another arc of a. great circle perpendicular to the meridian of Dunnose in D , meeting that of Beachy Head in R ; then we shall have two small spheroidical triangles WB D and RDB having in each two angles given , namely , WDB= 810 6 ' 6 , " , and WBD= 60 55 g8 " in the triangle WB D , ; and DBR= 830 4 ' 2 , with BDR= 80 3A 7 " in the triangle DB R ; and these reduced to the angles formed by the chords , give the following triangles for computation , namely , 521 0p1 rWBD= 6 55 57,2 In the triangle WBDWDB= 8i 56 52,4 D DWB=g9 7 10,4 rBDR= 836 And in the triangle B DRt DB R =83 41l DRB =88 52 53 In which it must be noted , that the reduced angles are given to the nearest y ' , .
Now the chord of the arc B D , or the distance between Beachy Head and Dunnose , is 339397,6 feet ( vide Sect. iv .
Art .
viii .
) , which used in the Triangle WB I &gt; BW_ 336i15,6 feet and the triangle f DR = 336980 feet gives DW= 40973,4 feet BDR BR = 47547,1 feet .
Again ; let BL and DE be the parallels of latitude of Beachy Head and Dunnose , meeting the meridians in L and E : then , to find LW and ER we have two small triangles which may be considered as plane ones , namely , LBW and ED R , .
in which the angles at W and R are given , nearly .
Now the excess of the three angles above 18oo in the triangle DBW , considered as a spherical one , is 3 " nearly ; therefore the angle DWB will be 91 07'1 i21 nearly ; hence BWL 88 52 ' 48 " : consequently the angle B LW = 90 ' 33 ' 36 " , and L BW= -o 33 ' 36 " .
Therefore with the chord of the arc WB = 336115,6 feet , we get WL= 3285,2 feet , which added tor WD , as founid above , gives 44258,6 feet , for the distance between the parallels of Beachy Head and Dunnose .
Again ; in the triangle BD R , considered as a spherical one , the excess is about 3 " ?
; hence , from the two observed angles at D and ' B , namely , 8 " 3 ' 7 " , and 853 4 ' 2 " , we get the third angle B RD 88 ' A ?
' 52 " , ,s ; and taking the triangle ER D as a plane one , the other angles will be O0 33 ' 32",75 ( EDR ) , and 9go 33 ' 32",75 ( DER ) ; therefore , with the chord : of the arc DR 336980 feet , , we get RE 3288,2 feet , which taken from B R , as found above , leaves 44258,9 feet for the meridional arc , or the distance between the parallels of Beachy Head and Dunnose ; which is nearly the same as before .
This method of determining the distance between the parallels is sufficiently correct ; but the same conclusion may be deduced from a different principle , thus : Let the difference of longitude , or thetangle at P , be found , on any hypothesis of the earth 's figure , and likewise the latitudes of Beachy Head and Dunnose ; with these compute the latitudes of the points E and L ; then it will be found , that the arc RE is I S " greater than LW ; and since so of a second on the meridian is nearly a foot , RE is i feet more than LW ; hence 475471 " 5+ 40973,4 = 44257,8 feet is the disz I tance between the parallels , and which is very nearly the same as found by the other method .
It seems therefore , that whatever be the value of the arch between those parallels in parts of a degree , the distance between them is obtained sufficiently near the truth ; therefore , taking 60851 fathoms for the length of a degree on the meridian , we get the arch subtended by 442058,7 feet 7 ' 16',4 , which subtracted from the latitude of Beachy Head , namely , 500 44 ' 293",71 , leaves 50 ' 37 ' 7",31 for the latitude of Dunnose .
We have therefore , for finding the length of the degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian at Beachy Head , or Dunnose , the latitudes of the two stations , and the angles which those stations make with each other and the pole .
Now it is proved in the Philosophical Transactions , Vol. LXXX .
that the sum of the horizontal angles ( such as PDB , PBD , fig. i. ) on a spheroid , is nearly the same as the sum of those which would be observed on a sphere , the latitudes , and also the difference of longitude being the same on both fi- .
gures .
We therefore shall have recourse to that determination , and apply it to the present question .
The co-latitudes of D and B , or the arches DP and B P , are 390 22 ' 52",69 , and 390 15 ' 36",29 , therefore half their sum is 390 19 ' 14",49 , and half their difference A ' 38 " , e. Half the sum of the angles PDB and PBD is 89 ? ?
26 ' 2"9,5 therefore , as tang .
390 19 ' 34 " ?
49 : tang .
A ' 38",2 : : tang .
89 ? ?
26 ' 25",5 tang .
70 31 ' 57",71 , or half the difference of the angles : hence the angles for computation are 81 54 ' 27",79 , and 960 58 ' 23",21 , which , with the co-latitudes of D and B , give the difference of longitude between Beachy Head and Dunnose , or the angle DP B 10 26 ' 47",93 .
We have now two right angled triangles , which may be considered spherical , namely , P BW , and P DR , in which the angle at the pole P is given , and likewise the sides PB and PD ; therefore , using these data , we find the arc BW= 54 ' 56",21 , and the arc DR = Ad ' 4/ ,74 The chords of the two perpendicular arcs are about 3-1 feet less than the arcs themselves ; therefore BW -=336119,1 feet and DR= S36983,5 feet and by proportioning these arcs to their respective values in fathoms , we get the length of the degree of the great circle perpendicular to the meridian in the middle point between W and B= 6i 182,8 fathoms , and in the middle point between R and D= 6i i8,8 fathoms .
Therefore Gl82,3 fathoms is the length of a degree of the great circle perpendicular to the meridian , in latitude 50 ' 41 ' , which is nearly that of the middle point between Beachy Head and Dunnose .
If the horizontal angles , or the directions of the meridians , have been obtained correctly : , the d ifference of longitde btween Beachy Head ' and Dunnose , as thus found , must be very nearly true ; sincet difference between the sums of the -angles which:would be observed on a -spheroid and those on a sphere , having te latitdesand the ddifrence of longitude the same on befth figures as tose places-is so small as scarcely to be computed : and it is easy to perceive , that the distance between the parall~s:-els obtained sufficientlry correct , since an error00 of 15:or 20 ; feet ; $in that meridional arc , will vary the 'length of the degree of the great circle but a very small quantity .
It may lpossibly b imagined , that because the vertical planes at Dunnose and Bi0eachy Head do not coincide , but intersect -eah ~other in the right-line joining- : these stations , neither of the : two included 'arcs is the proper distance3 between them , and that the nearest distance on thesurface must fall between these " arcs ; but it is easyto show that in the present case , the difference must be almost insensible .
In -fig .
e , letP B ` lbe Beachy Head , and EBP its meridian , and N and M , thef points where the verticals from Beacly Head and Dunnose e-respectivelyf meet the axis P P. Now it is known , that-if the planes of two circles cut each other , the angle of inclination4is that for ed by their diametersdrawn through th middl fthe chord , which is the line of intersec-tio.6 Therefore , if wedraw B-1 M , and also conceive D to be Dunnose , and EP its meridian , and join D N ; it is evident , that either of the angles NB M , NDM will be the inclination of the planes very nearly , because of the short distance between the stations , and their small difference in latitude .
In the ellipsoid we have adopted , the distance M N is about 62 fathoms , and hence the angle NB M , or ND M , will be found between 2 and 3 " .
The value of the arc between the stations is about 5 ' 3o " , and its length 339401 feet ; hence the versed sine of half the arc will be 685 feet nearly ; now , suppose the versed sines to form an angle of s3t , the greatest distance of the vertical planes on the earth 's surface between the stations , will he but about -Gi of an inch .
It may also be remarked , that the inclination here determined , is the angle in which the vertical plane at one station cuts the vertical at the other ; and therefore no sensible variation can arise in the horizontal angles , on account of the different heights of the stations .
If the figure of the earth be that of an ellipsoid , ( fig. b. ) then B R , which is perpendicular to the surface at the point B , is the radius of curvature of the great circle , perpendicular to the meridian at that point ; Xtherefore the length of a degree of longitude is obtained by the proportion of the radius to the cosine of the latitude .
Thus at Beachy Head , where the length of the degree of a great circle is 61183 fathoms nearly , we have this proportion ; rad. .
: cosine o ?
A ' 244 " : 61183 : 38718 fathoms , for the length of the degree of longitude .
And at Dunnose , as rad .
: cosine , ' 7 " : : 6182 : 38818 fathoms for the length of the degree of longitude , being about ioo different from the former .
But nearly the same conclusions may .
be otherwise deduced ; for the chords of the parallels may be found from the small triangles BWL and DE R. ( fig. 3 .
) and these , when augmented by the differences between them and the arcs , give the length of the degree of longitude at Beachy Ilead 38719 fathoms , and Dunnose 38819 fathoms .
ART .
IV .
PROBLEM .
Having given the length of a degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian , in the latitude whose tangent is t , and cosine s , and likewise the length of a degree upon the meridian , to find the diameters of the earth , supposing it an ellipsoid .
In fig. b. let APAP be the elliptical meridian , passing through the point B , the tangent of its latitude being t , and cosine s ; and put AC T , C PC , D= the length of the degree of the great circle , d= that of the degree upon the meridian , and r= 57,29 &amp;c. the degrees in radius .
Then , if B F , and AF be the ordinate and abscissa to the point B ; F C= VTs-2- , / T ?
+t 2C rLD = -VT _B R , the radius of curvature of And the great circle , rd= _Ts+_ the radius of curvature of the meL ridional degree .
These equations give DC=d s2 .
TE + tmC ; hence C sTv/ D tz2 ; therefore C : T::v , / d : VD + D-d .
t , Mt C srAM which call as i m ; then rD =A -+ ; and Ctherfom + may an therefore T may readily be found .
ART .
v. Table , containing a Comparison between the Degrees upon the Meridian , which have been measured in different Latitudes , with those computed on three Ellipsoids whose Magnitudes have been de .
, termined by data applied to the Conclusions derived from the foregoing Problem .
Ist .
Ellipsoid .
2zd .
Ellipsoid .
3d .
Ellipsoid .
Deg .
on meridian in lat. SO " 41 ' 6o851 fath .
6o870 6o85 I Deg .
perp .
to meridian -6iiz 6x1I82 6 19i Lat. Measured Com- .
ComComFath .
puted .
Duff .
puted .
Diff. puted .
Duff .
Bouguer , &amp;c. _0o 6048 2 6o izz -360 60I83 299 601o3 -379 Mason and Dixon 39 iz 6o6z8 60607 2i 60640 + iz 6o6oo -28 Boscovich , &amp;c. 43 o 60725 60687 38 607i6 9 60683 ~4z Cassini -5 o 60778 60730 -48 o0756 2z 60727.5 Leisganig 48 43 60839 6o8o6 1 30 60831 -8 6o8o8 -31 Betw .
Green .
aid Paris 5141 6o85 I 6o85 i0 60870 + I9 6o85 I0 Maupertuis , &amp;c. 6o 20 61194 6i148 -46 6ii5o 44 6i15638 The contents of the above table are computed from , the data expressed in the different columns at top ; In the third column , 60851 fathoms is nearly the length of the degree upon the meridian , as derived by the application of the measured arc between Greenwich and Paris to the difference of latitule , namely , 9 ? ?
3 ' 26 " .
The fifth , contains the degrees on an ellipsoid , computed from a different length of a degree upon the meridian in lat. 5c ? ?
41 ' , in order to show how far the ' varying the length of that degree , will affect the comparison between the measured and computed degrees on the first ellipsoid : and those in the seventh are determined by using 60851 fathoms for the degree upon the meridian , and 61191 fathoms for that of the great circle perpendicular to it ; which last degree is obtained by taking the angle at Dunnose , equal to 8 I ' 56 ' 5 , " 5 , instead of 8 10 156 ' 5ds " .
Now this comparison between the measured and computed degrees , sufficiently proves that the earth is not an ellipsoid , 2 since the differences are , excepting two instances , constantly minus ; this , however , presupposes that the degree of the great circle perpendicular to the meridian in lat. ? ?
41 ' , as we have found it , and liKewise the degree upon the meridian arising from the measured arc between Greenwich and Paris , and their difference in latitude , are nearly right .
Also , were it of Mr. BouGUER'S figure , the degree of a great circle in lat. 5oo 41 ' rould be 61270 fathoms , which is 88 fathoms greater than we have derived it ; we may therefore safely infer , that his hypothesis is more ingenious than true ; since it cannot be supposed that the degree , resulting from these observations , is 88 fathoms in defect ; but whether the earth be a figure formed by the revolution of a meridian round its axis , upon which the length of the degrees increase according to any law , or one whose meridians are formed by the combination of many different curves , .
it appears to be certain , that we may consider 6i 182 fathoms as nearly the length of a degree of a great circle , in latitude SOO 41 ' , by which we are enabled to settle the longitudes of those places whose situations have been determined in this operation .
The length of the degree , as given by General Roy , from the directions of the meridians at Botley Hill and Goudhurst , is 61248 fathoms , which is 66 fathoms different from this result : but this is not to be considered as extraordinary , since the distance between those places is not more than 23 miles , .
and the direction very oblique to the meridian .
It is an indispensable requisite , that the stations chosen for this purpose be nearly east and west ; because if both places were on the same parallel of latitude , the horizontal angles would give the difference of longitude , without adverting to the principle of the sums of the angles on a sphere and a spheroid being nearly equal , when the places on each have corresponding latitudes , and the same difference of longitude .
Was a degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian measured in some place remote from the latitude of 5oo 41 ' , the diameters of the earth , supposing it an ellipsoid , might be determined ; for if I the length of a degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian , in the latitude whose sine is s and cosine c , and L= the length of the degree in lat. 5oo 41 ' , a and b being the sine and cosine of that latitude ; then will the ratio of the axes be that of VI2 c , LU bz : v/ Lz at-lz sz .
It is therefore , much to be wished , that such measurements were made in the northern part of Russia , and in the south of France , where the methods we have taken to measure this degree would also be applicable .
Having given the length of a degree of what may be considered a great circle upon the earth 's surface , as deduced from the observations which have been made at Beachy Head and Dunnose , and likewise drawn such conclusions as appear to arise from it ; we shall close this section with observing , that as the preserving of the points marking these stations has been considered of great consequence , his Grace the Duke of RICHM OND ordered an iron guln to be inserted in the ground at each of those places , which was donte in the autumn of 1794 .
By these points being rendered permanent , the truth of this part of the operation can be examined , by re-observing the directions of the meridians ; and that this may be done with the least trouble , we have preserved the points , where the staffs were erected on Brading Down and the Hill above Jevington , by inserting large stones in the ground , having a small hole in each of them , for the purpose of denoting the exact points over which the centres of the staffs were placed ; therefore the angles which we have given , as being the directions of the meridians with respect to those points , can be examined without the trouble of firing lights at Beachy Head and Dunnose .
There is , however , another method of determining whether 6i 182 fathoms be nearly the length of a degree of a great circle upon the earth 's surface ; this may be done by observing the directions of the meridians at Shooter 's Hill and Nettlebed , whose distance is already determined , being 242731 feet nearly .
The points marking these stations are not likely to be soon removed , and can be found without difficulty .
SECTION SIXTH .
Of the Distances of the Stationsfrom the Meridians of Greenwich , Beachy Head , and Dunnose ; and also from the Perpendicalars to those Meridians .
ART .
I. In operations of this kind , the usual method of obtaining the distances of the stations from a first meridian , and from a perpendicular to that meridian , is by drawing parallels to those lines through the several stations , and then proceeding in a manner similar to that of working a traverse , after the bearings of the stations , with respect to those parallels , have been deduced from the angles of the triangles .
This mode of computation might be considered as accurate , if the surface of the earth to the whole extent of the triangles was reduced to a flat : and it will not produce very erroneous results , if the series of triangles are in a north and south , or an east and west direction nearly , provided they are on , or near the meridian , or its perpendicular ; but if the triangles are considerably extended , and in all directions , the bearings of the same stations ( if they may be so termed ) must evidently differ , and that sometimes considerably , whein obtained from different triangles .
To avoid , in a great measure , the errors which might affect the conclusions derived from the present triangles , if all those distances were determined from the meridian of Greenwich only , we have considered the meridians of Beachy Head and Dunnose as first meridians also , and , with two or three exceptions , calculated the distance of each station from its nearest meridian .
Bagshot Heath , Leith Hill , Ditchling Beacon , and Beachy Head , with those to the eastward , are from the meridian of Greenwich and its perpendicular ; Chanctonbury Ring from the meridian of Beachy Head ; and the others to the westward , from that of Dunnose .
The advantages in this mode of proceeding are very obvious ; for if the directions of meridians are taken at about 8o miles distance from each other , near the southern coast , the operation may be extended to the Land 's End with sufficient accuracy , without making astronomical observations for determining any intermediate latitude , as a new point of departure .
In deducing the bearings of the several stations from the meridians and their perpendiculars , we have taken the observed angles , instead of those formed by the chords , which were used in computing the sides of the principal triangles ; because the latter angles at each station may be considered as constituting the vertex of a pyramid , and consequently their sum is less than 3600 ; but the operation of determining the distances from the meridians , and their perpendiculars from those reduced , or pyramidical angles and the chords or sides of the triangles , independent of other data , would be very tedious .
Great accuracy however , in these cases seems not absolutely necessary ; because , if the latitudes and longitudes obtained from those distances can be depended upon to 4 of a second:(the latitude of Greenwich , from which the other latitudes are derived , being supposed exact ) , the conclusions will certainly be considered as sufficiently near the truth : s5 feet answers to about ' of a second on the meridian ; and it is not difficult to show , that no uncertainty of more than about lo feet has been introduced , even in the longest distances , in consequence of using the observed angles .
As Botley Hill is nearly south of the Observatory at Greenwich , and it -may be supposed , that the distance of it from the meridian , as well as perpendicular , must be nearly true , as given in the Philosophical Transactions , it has not been considered as expedient to make this part of the operation entirely independent of General Roy 's , by selecting Greenwich for a station , and observing the direction of the meridian at that place with respect to Banstead , or Shooter 's Hill .
In order , therefore , to obtain the necessary data , when the .
instrument was at Botley Hill , the angle between Banstead and the station on Wrotham Hill was observed , as given in a former part of this work , and found to be 152 57 ' 4",25 ; from which subtracting 790 i6 ' 28-",75 , the angle which Wrotham Hill makes with the parallel to the meridian of Greenwich , ( Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
p. Go .
) we get 73 40 ' 35 " , ,5 for the inclination of Banstead to that parallel ; this , with 50927 feet , the distance from Banstead to Botley Hill , give 48874,2 feet , and 14313,5 feet ; therefore 48874,2171,5 4870e,7 feet , is the distance of Banstead from the meridian of Greenwich ; and 72881,314313,5 58567,8 feet for the distance from the perpendicular : but it must be remarked , that 171,6 and 72882,5 ( see the table of general results , Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
) are reduced to 171,5 and 72881,3 feet , by using the proportion of 274047 : 27404,2 , the results of the two measurements on Hounslow Heath .
roidical correction for the latitude of Bagshot Heath is onlyabout Iof a second .
Had indeed the latitudes of the stations , which are far to the westward , been computed with distances from the meridian , and the perpendicular at Greenwich , some small errors might have been introduced , from the uncertainty of the earth 's figure , and the consequent inability of computing the spheroidical correction with sufficient accuracy ; but as the distance between the parallels of Beachy Head and Dunnose is obtained very nearly , the latitude of the latter sfation may be considered as correct as that of the former one , and consequently the places in the vicinity of Dunnose have their latitudes determined with sufficient precision .
SECTION SEVENTH .
Containing the secondary Triangles , in wh-ich two Angles only have been observed .
Thefirst seven intersected Places are intended for the small Instrument , on Account of their commanding Situations .
Beachy Head from Ditchling Beacon lo2132,4 Feet .
No. Triangles .
Angles tDistances of the stations from observed .
the point intersected .
o Feet .
i Beachy Head 10 19 3 'Firie Beaco 47956 Ditchling Beacon 8 53 23 J{ 55621 Firle Beacon Sssex Chanctonbury Ring from the support of High Down Windmill 29442 feet .
2 Chanctonbury Ring 64 54 52 } le Down { 17637 High Down .
Windmill !
9'j 7159 Sleep Down 179 3 Butser Hill from Rook 's Hill 60933,8 feet .
3 Butser Hill _1 28 4 Bow Hill { 46150 fRook 's Hill 28 19 50fLov17668 4Butser Hill 321T t ilf52729 4Ro ' 9il _j39 25 15 Portsdown Hill{ S79 Rook 's Hill Q2 89,96 Portsdown Hill Hampshire Dunnose from Motteston Down 55104,3 feet .
5 Dunnose 49thoress 5747 jMotteston Down 79 6 471 h*{ 29764 ThoressIsle of Wi~ghtthis distance , used as a base in the above triangle , gives the distance between the Observatory and the Church 3663 feet ; now the angle at the Church , comprehended by the Academy and the Observatory , being 20 44 ' 30 " , we shall find the angle at Dunnose , between Portsmouth Church and the Observatory , to be 10 3 ' 3o " , and the distance of the ObservatQry from Dunnose 69962 feet .
Remarks .
In an operation of this kin4d , it naturally follows when the objects intersected are at considerable distanices from .
the -stations , there must be great difficulty in ascertaining their precise situations from the appearance of the country .
Under such circumstances their names sometimes cannot be discovered ; and it has been found , that the best mapsof which we are in possession , were by no meanssufficiently correct to be of much service in that particular .
It is obvious also , without a very intimate knowledge of the interior parts of the country , ( of which it is impossible , in the present state of the survey , we can be altogether possessed ) , there must be some difficulty to identify them , when their distances exceed twelve or fourteen miles .
We have , therefore , when such an uncertainty existed , had recourse to some intelligent person well acquainted with the country ) by whom we have been informed of their names .
In this respect we have to acknowledge the services of Mr. GARDNER , chief Draftsman at the Tower , by whose assistance , from his intimate knowledge of the county of Sussex , we have been able to determine , with certainty , the names of many places , which we might otherwise have considered as doubtful .
Of the triangles here given , there is not much reason to believe there has been any misnomer ; .but , as there is not altogether a certainty that all are rightly named , or the objects actually intersected , we , have prefixed aD to those we consider as doubt- .
ful .
It may be proper to observe , that in taking the angles , the most defined parts of the objects have been selected , unless they were church towers without spires or pyramidical roofs , when the angles were taken to the middles of the towers .
If the objects were windmills , resting ( as they sometimes do ) on great spindles , the observations have been made to those spindles ; but in other cases , when the supports were undefined , the mills themselves were intersected .
SECTION NINTH .
Heights of the Statians .
Terrestrial Refractins .
ART .
I. Height of the Station at Dunnose .
With a view to obtain the heights of the stations nearly , from their elevations or depressions , we determined the height of that at Dunnose above low water in May , 1793 , by levelling down to the sea shore near Shanklin , a distance of about a mile .
Instead of a levelling telescope , we made use of the transit instrument , which , on account of its very accurate spirit level , seems extremely well adapted for the purpose .
Two circular wooden platforms were provided , broad enough for the feet of the transit stand ; these platforms rested on pegs driven into the ground , and were always made horizontal at the time of levelling , by means of a mahogany spar , or straight-edge , furnished with a spirit level .
The graduated rods , of course , were constantly set vertical on the lowest platform , while the transit stood on the other .
The ground is favourable enough down to Shanklin Chine : this is a large deep chasm , opening to the sea ; but the descent is not so sudden on the western side , which is by far the steepest , and to which we levelled , but a person may get up or down with safety .
We found its perpendicular height by means of several rods placed : end ways against the sloping side , and supported in an horizontal position , and then letting fall a measuring tape from one rod to another : but this was the most troublesome and difficult part of the whole operation .
The fall from the bottom of this chasm or opening , to the water 's edge , was found in the usual manner .
Thev whole perpendicular descent thus determined , was 79s feet ; which , we have no reason to suppose , is more than 2 or 3 feet wide of the truthf .
--We fini-hed at.low water on May to ; and therefore the height of the station above low water at spring tides will , no doubt , be some very few feet more .
ART .
It .
Heights of Rook 's Hill and Butser Hill .
Witb Tables containing the Heights of the Stations , and the mean terrestrial Refractions .
At fthe ground at Rook 's Hill was depressed 12 14 Dunnose at Butser H-ill depressed 6 to At Rook 's the ground at Dunn11ose was depressed 7 37 Hill at Butser Hill elevated 7 17 At Butser the ground at Dunnose was depressed 12 36 Hill the top of a flagstaff at Rook 's Hill depr .
1W12 Dunnose and Rook 's Hill 23 31 Dunnose and Butser Hill 23 31contained arcs nearly .
Butser Hill and Rook 's Hill 9 59J The flagstaff at Rook 's Hill was 20 feet high .
And the axis of the telescope about 52 feet above the ground at each station .
From these observations , the mean refraction between Dunnose and Rook 's Hill will be found 1 ' 58 " ; between Dunnose and Butser Hill et 16 " ; and between Butser Hill and Rook 's Hill 39 " ' ; which are about 'ts of the contained arcs .
respectively , as in the table .
By the observations across the water , the ground at Rook 's Hill would be 97 feet lower , and that at Butoer Hill Atl feet higher than Dunnose ; the sum is 228 feet for the difference of heights of Butser Hill , and Rook 's Hill , obtained in this manner ; but from the reciprocal observations , the ground at Rook 's Hill is only 208 feet lower than at Butser Hill , wihich is less than the former difference by 20 feet ; therefore , supposing each of the mean refractions to have produced ah equal error in the heights , we have 792 -97 ? ?
70ofeet , for the 3 height of Rook 's Hill ; and 792+ 1 270 = 916 for that of 7 Butser Hill .
From those two determinations , the others in table i. have been obtained ( the stations to the westward of Dunnose excepted ) by taking the mean of the heights as derived from different routes .
Those distinguished by an asterisk , were found by taking -L of the contained arc for refraction .
The refractions at the end of table 2 , obtained from the dip of the horizon , are very consistent , each being nearly -It of the contained arc .
The following were the observations : At Leith Hill , on July 2 , 1792 , at 1o in the forenoon , the horizon of the sea through Shoreham Gap was depressed 3o ' 6 " .
At Rook 's Hill about noon on Sept. 2 , 1792 , the depression of the sea , in the direction of Chichester spire , was 25 ' 30 " .
At Nine Barrow'Down , about noon on April il , 1794 , in a south direction nearly , the depression was 24 ' 16 " .
The axis of the telescope was about 5i feet from the ground at each of those stations .
Table 1 .
Stations , Ground above , low water .
Feet .
Dunnose 792 Rook 's Hill 702 Butser Hill 916 Hind Head 923 Chanctonbury Ring 814 Between Mean Refraction .
Dean Hill and Wingreen }-i of the contained arc .
Rook 's Hill and Butser Hill I Nine Barrow Down and Wingreen T Leith Hill and Ditchling Beacon -1 Mean of all the above , nearly -t Leith Hill and the Horizon -t Rook 's Hill and the Horizon -0 Nine Barrow Down and the Horizon t , ART .
III .
Remarks on theforegoing Tables .
The height of the ground at the station on St. Ann 's Hill , table 1 , is 240 feet ; but according to General Roy ( Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
p. 232 ) it is 321 feet : this very great disagreement , however , principally arises from the variableness in the terrestrial refraction .
In 1787 , at the station near Hampton Poor House , the ground at St. Ann 's Hill was elevated 17 ' 39 " ; but at the same station in 1792 , when the axis of the instrument was at the same height above the ground , the elevation was only 8 ' il " .
General Roy took --1of the contained arc for the effect of refraction , and considered the height of St. Ann 's Hill , when deduced from that of the station near Hampton Poor House , as more accurate than could be obtained by way of the station at the Hundred Acres .
But , previous to the survey in 1787 , he found by the barometer , that the station on St. Ann 's Hill was 0oo feet higher than the Thames at Shepperton ; and he added 33 feet for the descent to low water at the sea ; the sum is e33 feet , agreeing nearly with our determination .
We take the height of Botley H1ill ( 89o feet ) a mean of 900,885,885 , which the-observations at Leith Hill , Banstead , and Crowborough Beacon respectively produce , by making use of -1of the contained arcs for refraction : this height exceeds that in General Roy 's table by 31 feet ; but we are not certain of its being nearer the truth : only it may be remarked , in the table , p. 246 ( Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
) , that between the several stations from High Nook to Botley Hill , the mean refractions are very great .
From the reciprocal observations at Leith Hill , Banstead , and Shooter 's Hill , the height of the last station is 446 feet , which is the same , in fact , as that obtained .
in the following manner .
General RoY found by levelling , that the floor of the upper story of the Bull Irnn at Shooter 's Hill was 444 feet above the Gun Wharf at Woolwich ; and he ' allowed 22 feet for the fall to low water at the sea ; .
the sum is 466 feet .
In 1794 , we levelled from the Inn to the Station , and found the latter 21 feet lower than the floor , which taken from 466 , there remains 445 feet for the station 's -height. .
Notwithstanding this consistency , and also that in the height of St. Ann 's Hill , found by different methods , it is evident from the observations at Dunnose , Rook 's Hill , and Butser Hill , that relative heights deduced from elevations , or depressions , cannot always be depended upon to less than about 1o feet , .
even supposingthose heights are the means of two or three independent results , except , perhaps , reciprocal observations were made exactly at the same time .
The very great difference in the observed elevations of St. Ann 's Hill , proves that no dependancecan be placed on single observations .
But that was not the only instance ; for , at the station on Rook 's ,5,86 jThe / ccount of a Hill , we found the depression of the .
ground at Chanctonbury Ring , vary from ' 411 " to 2 ' 30 " .
The observations , however , on which the tables are founded , were made in close cloudy days , or toward the evenings , when the tremulous motion in the air is commonly the least .
It has been conjectured , that the variations in terrestrial refraction , depend on the changes in the atmosphere indicated by the barometer and thermometer : this , however , car-Inot be the case when the rays of light pass near the earth 's surface for any considerable distance .
M. DE LA LAND , in his Astronomy ( Art .
Terrest .
Ref ) , remarks , that the mountains in Corsica are sometimes seen from the coasts of Genoa and Provence , but at other hours on the same days , they totally disappear , or are lost as it were in the sea .
And the late General Roy frequently mentioned an instance , of extraordinary refraction , which himself and Colonel CALDERWOOD observed on Hounslow Heath , when they were tracing out the base .
Their levelling telescope at King 's Arbour was directed towards Hampton Poor House , where a flagstaff was erected at that end of the base ; this for a long time they endeavoured in vain to discover , till at last , very unexpectedly , it suddenly started up into view , and so high it seemed to be lifted , that the surface of the ground where it stood , became visible .
This Will appear the more extraordinary , when it is considered , that a righit line drawn from the eye at King 's Arbour to the other end of the base , would pass 8 or 9 feet below the surface of the intermediate ground near the Duke Of ST .
ALBANS P-ark .
The following is still more , singular .
; I observed , " says Mr. DALBY , " Cwhat seemed to me a very uncommon effect of ter " restrial refraction , in Aprii , 1793 , as I went from Freshwater Gate , in the Isle of Wighit , towards the Needles .
Soon after " you leave Freshwater Gate , you get on a straight and easy " ascent , which extends 2 or 3 miles ; a mile , or perhaps a mile " and an half beyond this to the westward , is a rising ground , " or hill ; and it is to be remarked , that its top and the afore"said straight ascent , are nearly in the same plane : now in " walking towards this hill , I observed that its top ( the only " part visible ) seemed to dance up and down in a very extra .
" ordinary manner ; which unusual appearance however , evi"dently arose from unequal refraction , and the up-and-down " motion in walking ; but when the eye was brought to about " 2 feet from the ground , the top of the hill appeared totally " detached , or lifted up from the lower part , for the sky was " seen under it .
This phxnomenon I repeatedly observed .
" There was much dew , and the sun rather warm for the seac " son , consequently a great evaporation took place at that " time .
" Here , and also on Hounslow Heath , the rays of light passed near the earth 's surface a great way before they arrived at the eye ; and it is more than probable , that moist vapours were the principal cause of the very unusual refractions : the truth of which conjecture seems to be verified by the following circumstance .
In measuring the base on Hfounslow Heath , we had driven into the ground , at the distance of ioo feet from each other , about 30 pickets , so that their leads appeared through the boning telescope to be in a right line ; this was done in the afternoon .
The following morning proved unconmmnonly dewy , and the Stin shone bright ; when having occasion to replace the telescope , we remarked that the heads of the pickets exhibited a curve , concave upwards , the farthermost pickets rising the highest ; and we concluded they were not properly driven till in the afternoon , when we found that the curve appearance was lost , and the ebullition in the air had subsided .
The new raised earth about the gun at King 's Arbour , prevented a very accurate measurement of the height of the instrunient above the point of commencement of the base ; and therefore two opportunities only presented themselves for determiining the actual terrestrial refraction ; namely , at the ends of the base of verification .
From the depression taken at Beacon Hill , the refraction was 38 " ; but the elevation of Beacon Hill , observed at the lower end , near Old Sarum , gives 50 " .
These deductions , perhaps , cannot be deemed very conclusive ; because , as they depend on the difference in the vertical heights of the ends of the base , every 2 inches of error in that difference will produce an error of about ill in the computed refraction .
We shall close this section with the data whence those refractions were obtained .
At Beacon Hill , the top of the flagstaff near Old Sarumn was depressed 42 ' 6 " .
At the other end of the base , near Old Sarum , the top of the flagstaff at Beacon Hill was elevated 38 ' 42 " .
The axis of the telescope at Beacon Hill was 1S inches above , and the top of the flagstaff 91 inches above the point where the mensuration began .
Near Old Sarum it was ?
8 inches higher , and the top of that flagstaff 95 inches above wherethe base terminated .
Thisend ( see Sect. iii .
) is 429j48 feet lower than the other .
Lastly , the value of the base is 6 ' of a degree , very nearly .
CONCLUSION .
Raving communicated to the public , through the very respectable medium of the Royal Society , the particulars relati-ng to the trigonometrical operation , we shall close the work with a few remarks concerning it .
In this early stage of the survey , the first object in view , has been to determine the situations of the principal points on the sea coast , and those objects which are near it .
Having executed this resolution , the result will sufficiently explain its importance ; as it will be found , that by the intersections of churches , or other edifices , the coast is laid down from Fairlight Head to Portland .
Thus , Bexhill Church , Pevensey Church , the station on Beachy Head , Brighthelmstone Church , Southwick Church1 New Shoreham Church , Goring Church , Pacgham Church , Selsea Church , Selsea High House , Cackham Tower , and the Watch House at the mouth of Chichester Harbour , mark the coast of Sussex .
In like manner , it will be found , that the coast of HIampshire is laid down from the intersections of many remarkable objects , of which the principal ones , are South Hlayling Church , Portsmouth Church , Calshot Castle , East Cowes Sea Mark , St. Catherine 's Light House or Sea Mark , Ashey Down Sea Mark , the Needles Light Hlouse , Hurst Castle Light House , with Christchu-rch Head , or , as it is more freque-ntly called , Heigistbury Head .
The coast of Dorsetshire also , has many places laid down : -Poole Church .
, Brankksea Castle , the Barrow on Swyre Head near St. Albans Head , and Wyke Church near Weymouth .
Those are sorue of the principal objects which mark the coast , being , very near it .
Upon the commencement of the present business , the design was to divide it into two parts ; namely , one for ascertaining distances from the triangles whose angles were to be observed with the large theodolite ; and the other , the interior survey of the country , in which a small instrument , made upon the same plaln with the great one , was intended to be used .
This instrument being now nearly finished , that design will be car .
ried into execution ; and as two or three hundred single bearings have been taken from the different stations , which cannot at present be made use of , an important addition will be made to the number of places already fixed , independent of others , whose situations will be determined with it , in the course of the survey .
The result of this , as well as the other parts of the trigonometrical operation , will be given to the public , in the Philosophical Transactions .
And should it be discovered , from the use of the small instrument , that any of the secondary triangles are erroneous , such errors will be corrected , as well as .
any errata which we may find in this account .
From the instructions given to those who h ve the honour to be employed in this undertaking , namely , to consider the : survey of the sea coast , in , the first stage Of the business their principal object , the design is to carry on a series of triangles to the Land 's End .
For that purpose , there are already five new stations selected ; two in the Isle of Portland ; one on Charton Common , near Lyme ; another on Pilsden .
HIill , near Broad Windsor , and the other on a hill near Min-tern ; all in Dorset- .
9 e. How those stations connect with each other , will be etasily seen , on having recourse to a map .
The distances between the stations in Portland , and that on Charton Comnmon , will serve'as bases for fixing the points on the coast of Devonshire , and the side Charton Comnmon and Pilsden H1111 will coilnect with the high land near Honiton .
N.B. In the plan of the triangles ( Tab. XLVI , ) , the line from the station near the Four Mile'stone to Old Sarumn , is drawn a little out of its true position , otherwise it would very nearly coincide with that which joins the former station and Dean Hill .

