226 On Hyperjacobian Surfaces and Curves .
[ May l ; May 17 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered fo them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Hyperjacobian Surfaces and Curves .
" By Williax Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received April 23 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper published in the ' Mathematische Annalen ' ( vol. iii .
p. 459 Brill has discussed the question of curves having three-point contac with a doubly infinite pencil of curves , and in particular he has investigated some of the properties of the curve passing through all the point !
of contact with the individual curves of the pencil .
In the same jouma ( vol. x. p. 22.1 ) Krey , of Kiel , has applied a method similar to that o : Brill with partial success to the question of curves having four-poinl contact with a triply infinite pencil .
Some formulae , however , given my paper " On the Sextactic Points of a Plane Curve " ( Phil. Trans 1865 , p. 657 ) have proved to be directly applicable to both questions An application of them to Brill 's problem will be found in the ' Comptes Rendus ' for 1876 ( 2nd semestre , p. 627 ) , and a solution of Krey 's problem in the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society ' foi the same year ( vol. viii .
p. 29 ) .
The present subject was , in the first instance , suggested by the foregoing papers ; and from one point of view it may be regarded as an attempt to extend the question to the case of surfaces ; viz. to determine a curve which shall pass through the points of contact of a given surface IT with certain surfaces belonging to a pencil V , and to investigate some of its properties .
Prom a slightly different point of view , however , it may be considered as an extension of two ideas , viz :\#151 ; first , that of the jacobian surface , or locus of the points whose polar planes with regard to four surfaces meet in a point ; and secondly , that of the jacobian curve , or locus of points whose polar planes with regard to three surfaces have a right line in common .
More particularly , commencing with the facts , first , that if a surface of the form a\lt ; p + bip+cx touch a surface U , the point of contact is a point on the jacobian , and , secondly , that if a surface of the form a\lt ; j\gt ; +b\p touch a surface U , the point of contact is a point on the jacobian curve , I have endeavoured to extend them to higher degrees of contact .
S77 .
] On the Length of the Voltaic Spark .
227 The properties here considered are those which appertain to the jints , if any , through which all the surfaces pass , or , as they may , termed , the principal points of the system , and they consist mainly the nature of the contact of the hyperjacobian surfaces with the sur- , ce U , and the multiplicity of the hyperjacobian curve at the points in aestion .
The present investigation extends to the cases of two-branch contact the given surface with a one-fold and with a two-fold pencil , and of ir66"brflnch contact with a four-fold pencil .
In the latter case notice also made of some properties appertaining to the points , if any , where 1 the surfaces touch one another , or , as they may be termed , the condary points of the system .
In particular it is shown that in the ise of common , or two-branch , contact and a one-fold pencil the jaco-an curve has a double point at the principal points ' ; while in the case lthree-branch contact and a four-fold pencil the hyperjacobian curve as a triple point at the same points .
I. " On the Length of the Spark from a Voltaic Battery in different Oases at ordinary Atmospheric Pressures .
" By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Hugo W. Muller , Ph. P. , P.R.S. Received May 17 , 1877 .
We venture , in anticipation of a more detailed account , in course of reparation , of our experiments with the chloride-of-silver battery which ave engaged our attention for more than three years , to lay before the ociety the results of some investigations we were induced to make in onsequence of phenomena we have observed in the voltaic discharge in ifferent residual gases contained in vacuum tubes .
We have found , as anticipated we should do , that the length of the spark at ordinary stmospheric pressures in the following gases is the longest in the order ( l'l a which they are enumerated\#151 ; hydrogen , nitrogen , air , oxygen , carbonic l !
lj , cid\#151 ; it being nearly twice as long in hydrogen as in air .
The spark u air between a point ( positive ) and a plate ( negative ) with our battery \#187 ; f 8040 cells is about 0*34 in .
, and in hydrogen 0-60 .
We may mention \#174 ; ^| hat we are making up our battery to 10,440 cells .
The length of the park does not appear to be dependent on the specific gravity of the \lt ; *1 ; as , but may have some relation to its viscosity .
m

