]\gt ; unisted , etc. fall on twisting and a rise on untwisting of about diyision .
The actual change observed on twisting through one turn was about division .
If then the heat or cold only slowly spread from the wire , or again if it were rapidly shared with the water in the wire tube but only slowly spread thence , the measurements would be seriously affected .
But it is obvious that there must , in reality , be a rapid adjustment of temperature between the wire tube and the outer water jacket , and it was important to find out how rapidly the adjustment progressed .
Fortunately the wire was insulated from the tube where it passed through the washer , so that it was easy to pass an electric through it by connecting the terminals of a battery , one to the bracket , the other to the wire tube .
Heating currents of the order of 1 to 2 amperes were thus passed along the wire .
The current was put on for 2 seconds , the meniscus rushing up meanwhile fairly uniformly , and the point to which it rose was read on the micrometer .
Then , 15 seconds after the cut off , the position of the meniscus was read and the mean of a number of determinations showed that after 15 seconds only of the original rise remained .
The original rise varied from 7 to 18 divisions with different currents .
If the twisting were made instantaneously and the reading of the fall in the tube were made 15 seconds later , about of the fall would be due to the cooling on twisting .
But this is a very considerable over-estimate .
The twisting was usually begun 25 seconds before reading and ended more than 15 seconds before .
The effect of temperature change may , I.think , be estimated at less than 1/ 300 of the whole .
It was impossible to assign even an approximate value to it and as it proved to small it was neglected .
The effect would have been reduced altogether beyond consideration if the readings had been taken at intervals of one minute , but this would have introduced errors , probably much worse , through irregularities in the temperature march .
In the experiments on Poisson 's ratio the adiabatic change of temperature on adding a load which stretches length by is where is the change in Young 's modulus per degree .
The value of steel is about 1/ 4000 .
This gives the heat for a stretch of 10 as about calories .
With uniform temperature of steel and water in the wire tube the water would have about 7 calories , and its effect VOL. LXXXVI .
On comparing the results for Wires I and II we see that side contraction - elongation is very nearly the same both .
The theory given below makes both and proportional to the square of the radius for wires of the same material undergoing the same twist .
But as far as these two wires are concerned they are very nearly proportional to radius ) .
I do not think the discrepancy is to be ascribed to experimental error .
Perhaps the theory is inadequate , but I think that it is more probable that slight differences in the material not greatly affecting the ordinary elastic moduli may produce very considerable changes in what we may term the secondary moduli , which , in the theory below , are denoted by and I should like to have taken observations on several more steel wires with a wider range of diameters , but I am not able to continue the work at present .
Veriffiation of a Reciprocal In the 'Philosophical Magazine ' for November , 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 740 , Dr. B. A. Houstoun has expressed the reciprocal relation between the stretching and twisting of a wire ( confined within limits of reversibility ) in the form const . .
( 1 ) where is the end pull and the increase in length , the torque , and the twist on the wire ( I use letters for length and torque differing from Dr. Houstoun 's ) .
As the apparatus only needed small modification it appeared to be worth while to see how nearly this relation was verified , and Wire II was used for the purpose .
Incidentally , the value of the rigidity was obtained by the statical torque method .
When the observations needed are worked out it is found that they are identical , as of course was to be expected , with those needed to verify the relation ' ( 2 ) which is the more direct expression of the Conservation of Energy these phenomena .
Taking equation ( 1 ) we require to know on the left the extra twist which must be put upon the wire to keep the same when a load is added .
For this purpose the wire was initially loaded with kgrm .
, and .
This is given by , where whence , on substituting for from ( 3 ) , we get , and .
( 4 ) Taking the right hand of equation , we reqmre to know the lowering for a ohange in the torque under constant load .
We get the lowering from the equation giving Also .
Them and ( 5 ) , we ought to find .
( 6 ) Substituting the known values on the right , viz. , we get The observed value of is given as on p. 548 , showing as close an agreement as could be expected , considering the errors of observation .
Taking the second reciprocal relation ( 2 ) , to find must twist through and observe , and then calculate what load must be removed to restore the original length .
We have , and Then where is a constant to that order .
If we reverse becomes equal to , so that we have or We can only assume that there is no pressure or tension perpendicular to the plane of the figure , if we neglect .
Going to the second order , we have to allow the possibility of a pressure of that order , which we may put as where if is negative the force is a tension .
FIG. 2 .
FIG. 3 .
Considering the equilibrium of the wedge ABC , , with AC in the direction of greatest elongation and BC in that of { yeatest contraction , I showed that the tangential stress along AB is , to the second order , and that a pressure is required perpendicular to AB given by The analysis stopped here and was incomplete , as no account was taken of the stresses on the plane , fig. 3 , perpendicular to AB .
It requires to be supplemented.as follows:\mdash ; Considering the equilibrium of the wedge CDB , let us suppose that on CD there is a tangential stress along , and a pressure perpendicular to it .
Resolving all the forces on CDB parallel to DB , .
CB .
CB .
CB whence ; ' perpendicular to the plane of the figure .
Through the tension on every face we get an extension in all directions , where is the bulk modulus .
The tensions on AB and CD and the pressures Sn on AD and BC constitute a shear stress giving elongation parallel to BC 4 , and a contraction parallel to AB also 4 The tensions perpendicular to the plane of the figure give an elongation perpendicular to that plane , and contractions at right angles , viz. , along AB and AD , , where is Young 's modulus and is Poisson 's ratio .
Collecting the results , we have secondary , strains accompanying the shear as follows:\mdash ; An elongation parallel to BC , perpendicular to the plane As in the experiments described above and were determined directly , it will be convenient to replace from the equation , and the secondary strains become Changes in the Dimensions of a Wire Subject to a Torque .
I am indebted to Sir Joseph Larmor for his kindness in dicating how the following equations should be formed and solved .
Let us assume that we put on to a wire of length and radius a pure shear stress proportional to the distance from the axis , and twisting length through angle .
Then in addition to the shear , this stress would produce in an element unconstrained by noighbouring material what we may term " " free strains\ldquo ; co-ordinates , , and The diflerences between these actual strains and the ' free strains viz. , imply " " secondary stresses\ldquo ; in the wire due to adjustment of strain in neighbouring elements .
Let these be denoted by , W. To find , and , we treat , as if they vrere strains in an inqependent system .
Putting , the equations are , ( 3 ) where K-Sn and ) .
The forces , and must form a system in equilibrium , there being no external forces to balance .
Considering the equilibnum ) the elekent ABCD , fig. 5 , , whence .
( 4 ) .
( 6 ) By putting , we easily find the solution where and and are arbitrary constants to be determined by the boundary conditiona If the wire is unstrained in all parts before twisting , the solution applies with the same constants for all parts .
In order that when , we must have , so that .
( 8 ) When Substituting from S in the value of in ( 3 ) , and putting when , we get From equation ( 5 ) we obtain another relation between and , when we substitute for from ( 8 ) in from ( 3 ) and rate from to viz. , and from ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) we can find and Since A is a linear function of , and , and each of these is proportional to and are proportional to .
Substituting for in ( 8 ) , is also proportional to .
The theory , then , es the parabolic law for the twisting of a wire initially unstrained both for lengthening and for side contraction .
It also gives the lengthening and side contraction and for different wires of the same material as proportional to So far the theory does not , of course , give any account of the fact that the wires examined are always unsymmetrical , that the effects always date from a point , on the counter-clockwise side in the wires examined , being different for and .
This want of symmetry implies initial internal strain , probably , in reality , very complicated .
Let us examine a simple case in which there is a core , radius , twisted initially against a sheath , outer radius , and let the opposing twists be respectively and .
When we put a twist from outside on to the core as a whole the core is twisted through , and the sheath through .
For the core and sheath respectively we have Steet Wire when Twisted , etc. .
twist , which We take as one turn , or as in leugth cm .
We ako know and , since and Substituting for , and we can determine A in terms of and Then from equations ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) we can find and in terms of and Equating to the observed value of ( which is negative , and to the observed value of , we have two linear equations in and The arithmetic is straightforward , though lengthy , and may be omitted .
I have used a slide rule .
in the calculations .
Using the of the elastic constants and from Table II , and the values of and , on p. 548 , I find for Wire I so that the force perpendicular to the plane of the figure in fig. 4 is a tension and not a pressure .
in the Direction of Propagation in Distortional Waves and the Longiterdinal Waves Pr.oduced by the Pressure .
If we had a train of waves purely distortional , that is , a train in which the strain could be represented by a pure shear , there would be a pressure in the direction of propagation ( Snp ) .
But as varies from point to point in the train , the pressure due to the shear strain varies , and there must be longitudinal disturbance , longitudinal waves , accompanying the distortional waves .
The longitudinal strain implies that the material yields under the pressure , and the pressure will , in general , have a different value from that in a pure shear .
Let us represent the distortional train by where and is the amplitude of the shear .
If is the longitudinal displacement at the point where the shear is is the elongation of the element about the point .
Now if we shear a cube , and remove the pressure ) , the cube elongates in that direction , and if the dimensions in the two directions at right angles are maintained the same , the removal of the pressure produces elongation This we may term the ' free elongation\ldquo ; in the direction of propagation on the supposition that there is no change of length at right angles to it .
VOL LXXXVL\mdash ; k 2 If we put the energy per cubic centimetre in the longitudinal waves as , we find that so that the ratio is proportional to and therefore in any actual waves it is very small .
The pressuoes at right angles to the line of propagation will not produce any disturbance in a wave front where is constant .
Round the edges of the wave front , however , where is diminishing as we go outwards , they may have effects , and it appears likely that they may give rise to disturbances ated sideways .
I have much pleasure in recording my hearty thanks to Mr. .
O. Harrison , mechanic in the laboratory workshop , for his great help in planning the apparatus used in the experiments described in this paper , for his skill in constructing it , and for his assistance in making the observations .

