]\gt ; Report of the Committee for the Year ending October 31 , 1886 .
The operations of The Kew Observatory , in the Old Deer Park , Richmond , Surrey , are controlled by the Kew Committee , which is constituted as follows : Mr. Warren de la Rue , Chairman .
Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. The Earl of Rosse .
Prof. W. G. Adams .
Mr. R. H. Scott .
Prof. G. C. Fosber .
Lieut.-General W. J. Smythe .
Mr. F. Galton .
Lieut.-Gen .
R. Strachey , C.S.I. Admiral Sir G. H. Richards , Lieut.-General J. T. Walker , The Committee regret to announce the death , in December last , of one of their members , Captain Sir F. Evans , K.C.B. , formerly Hydrographer .
He had held a seat upon the Committee since 1874 , and was a freqnent attendant at their meetings , rendering most valuable assistance in all questions relating to terrestrial magnetism or navigation brought forward for consideration .
The work at the Observatory may be considered under the following heads:\mdash ; 1st .
Magnetic observations .
2nd .
Meteorological observations . .
Solar observationfi .
4th .
Experimental , in connexion with any of the above 5th .
ication of instruments .
6th .
Rating of Watches and Chronometers . .
Miscellaneous .
I. MAGNETIC OBSERVATLONS .
The Magnetographs have been in constant operation the year , and in accordance with the usual practice , determinations of the scale values of all the instruments made early in January .
Report of the Committee .
The Vertical Force Balanoe Magnet was found to have a scale value of for 1 inch , and therefore appeared wanting in sensitiveness , it was accordingly -adjusted and brought up to the proper pitch of delicacy .
The values of the ordinates of the different photographic then were as follows:\mdash ; Declination : 1 inch .
1 cm .
Bifilar , January 11 , 1886 , for 1 inch foot grain unit .
1 cm .
, , C.G.S. unit .
Balance , January 19 , 1886 , , 1 inch foot grain unit .
1 cm .
, , C.G.S. unit .
The chief days on which notable netic disturbance was recorded were as follows :January 9 , March 30 , July 27 , and October 7-11 .
The magnetic instruments have been studied , and a vledge of their ation obtained by Professor L. M. Russell , Mr. E. Kitto , and Mr. C. Chambers , jun .
Professors Rucker and Thorpe visited the Observatory in April , and made several sets of observations with the instruments which they have employed in their magnetic survey of the British Isles , prior to their operations on the southern section , which have occupied them during the past summer .
At request of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Socie , a set 01 magnetographs on an improved model been constructed for the Committee by Mr. Munro , which , after a tbenod t in the Verification House , were orwarded to Falmouth , and erected at the New Observatory , under the supervision of Mr. T. W. Baker .
The cost has been defrayed by a grant from the Royal Society 's Government Fund .
At suggestion of General Sir J. H. Lefroy , the Committee have caused a plate to be graved on which sectional lines are laid down on the scaJe adopted by the International Conference , for plotting all magnetic curves on a uniform system .
Impressions from this plate will be kept at the Observatory , and supplied at cost price to persons desirous of making use of such forms .
Information on tters relating to terrestrial magnetism and various data , have been supplied to Professor W. .
Adams , Dr. inson , General Sir J. H. Lefroy , Professor B. tewarb , Ioureau , Captaiu Schuck , and others .
The monthly observations with the absolute instruments have been made as usual , and the results are given in the tables forming Appendix I of this Report .
The following is a sunlmary of the number of magnetic observations made year:\mdash ; Report of the Committee .
Detel.minations of Horizontal Intensity . . . . . . . .
30 Inclination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
155 Absolute Declination . . . . . . . .
36 The diurnal range of the Declination havin , become a somewhat interesting feature in magnetic reductions , an additional table , giving the values for the summer and winter seasons and for the whole year , determined from selected curves by the graphic method , been inserted in the Appendix .
II .
METEOROLOGTCAL ERVATIONS .
The several self-recording instruments for the continuous registration respectively of atmospheric pressure , temperature , and humidity , wind ( direction and velocity ) , bright sunshine , and rain , have been maintained in regular operation throughout the year .
The only alterations made in the above instruments have been the following : a screen of blue glass has been interposed in the barobetween the barometer tnbe and the light , with the result of improving the definition of the photographic curve , and a Stonyhurst lifter has been fitted to the Beckley rain-gauge , cansing the pencil to return to its original position after depression more rapidly than it did previously .
The standard eye observations for the control of the automatic records have been duly registered during the year , together with the daily observations in connexion with the U.S. Signal Service synchronons system .
A summary of these observations is given in Appendix The tabulation of the meteorological traces has been regularIy carried on , and copies of these , as well as of the eye observations , with notes of weather , cloud , and sunshine have been transmitted to the Meteorological Office .
The terrestrial radiation thermometer ( grass minimum ) was found broken on July 11 , and replaced by a new instrument on July 21 .
The following is a summary of the number of meteorological observations made , during the past year : Readings of standard rometer .
1725 dry and wet thermometers . . . . . . . .
3450 maximum and minimum thermometers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
730 radiation thermometers . . . . . . . . . .
1480 rain gauges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
730 Cloud and weather observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1877 Measurements of barograph curves . . . .
, . . . . . . .
8751 paper by Mr. Whipple in the ' Quart .
Jour . .
Met .
Soc vol. 9 , p. 45 .
Report of the Committee .
Measurements of dry bulb thermograph curves. .
9473 wet bulb thermograph curves . .
8681 wind ( direction and velocity ) . .
17515 rainfall curves . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
740 sunshine traces . . . . . . .
, . . . . . .
2113 In compliance with the usual request made by the ] Council to the Committee , Mr. Whipple visited the Observatories at Aberdeen , Glasgow , and Stonyhurst , and the anemograph at Swaubister .
He also superintended the el.ection of new instruments at North Shields and Fleetwood .
Mr. Baker has visited the Valencia and Falmouth Observatories for the purpose of inspection .
With the sauction of the MeteoroIogical Council , weekly abstracts of the Meteorological results have been regularly forwarded to , and published by The Times ' and rfhe Torquay ectory .
' Data have also been supplied to the Council of the Royal Mebeorologica ] Society , the edilor of 'Symons 's Mouthly Meteorological Magazine , ' the Secretary of the Institnte of Mining ngineers , Messrs. B. Latham , Gwilliam , Rowland , and others .
The cost of hese abstracts is borne by the recipients .
Elecbrograph.\mdash ; Acting upon the recommendation of the Kew Committee the Meteorological Council have purchased a new quadrant eIectrometer , constructed on Mr. de la Rue 's principle , with Professor 's improvements , together with a chloride of silver battery of celIs , for the purpose of 1naintaining the potential of the quadrants at a certain point .
By the kindness of the Chairman of the Committee , experiments were made at his laboratory in Portland Place by means of which the scale value of the instrument was determined before it was conveyed to the Observatory , and erected in the place of the Thomson instlument formerly employed .
No change has been made in the recording apparatus attached to it .
The instrument has been working for the past month in a satisfactory manner .
In accordance with a request made by the Meteorological Council , and at their expense , the electrograms for the two years 1882 and 1883 have been tabulated in values .
III .
SOLAR } RVATIONS .
The sketches of Sun-spots , as seen projected on the photoheliograph screen , have been made on 169 days , in order to continue Schwabe 's enumeration , the resuIts being given in Appendix II , Table Transit Observations .
observatio1ls of solar and 76 of sidereal transits have been taken , for the purpose of keeping correct local time VOL. XLI .
2 Report of the Kew Committee .
the Observatory , and the clocks and cbronometers have been compared daily .
The Observatory Chronometers Arnold 86 and rkinson and Frodsham 2408 , been cleaned and re.adjtlsted , and the mean-time clocks , Shelton K. O. , and Shelton examined and -adjusted by Dent .
The following clocks , French , Dent 2011 , Shelton K. O. , and Molynenx No. 2125 and No. 3140 , are kept carefully rated as time-keepers at the Observatory .
The meatl-time cIock , Shelton 35 , after cleaning , \amp ; c. , was bolted to the wall of chronometer-room for use in daily comparisons with the chronometers on trial .
In order to facilitate the -comparison of the clocks , the chronometer " " Parkinson\ldquo ; has been specially fitted up as a " " hack\ldquo ; instrument .
At the request of ths Council of the Royal Society ; experiments were made with the view of investigating Professor W. K. Zenger 's solar phenomena and an examination was made of the Kew solar photo raphs .
The results obtained were however of a negative character only .
A note of them has been ished in the ' Quarterly Journal Roy .
Met .
Soc vol. 12 , p. 21.5 .
A comparative trial extending over five months was made of rofessor McLeod 's sunshine recorder ( see ' Phys. Soc. Proc vol. 6 , p. 216 ) , and the ' instrument , which proved the results given by the two instruments to be practically identical .
IV .
EXPERIMENTAL WOBK .
Photo-nephograph.\mdash ; The report on ] year 's work in cloud photography was duly submitted to the Meteorological Council , and placed by them in the hands of Professor Stokes for consideration .
Professor Stokes having investigated the methods employed the Observatory , devised a new graphic process for determining the cloud heights and motions in a much simplcr manner thau by the use of mathematical ] only .
He invented a special apparatus called , projector , which has been constructed by C. Baker , and is now being utilized the reduction of the pictures taken during the past season .
These have amounted to 112 cloud negatives , and were obtained in 15 days .
convenience of dealing with the cloud pictures in the tion apparatus with greaber facility , the negatives have all beeIl printed off on paper prepared by the cyanotype process .
Certain minol .
additions were mffie to the cameras , and accessory apparatus , which have tended to facilitate their working , and their action has been fairly satisfactory ever since .
There is .
however , an failure to uncertainty of the duration of the Report of the Committee .
time of exposure of the twin cameras , although this is apparently instantaneous .
Solar Radiahon Thermon eters.\mdash ; The experiments with these tbermometers have been continued during the past summer months , and at imes as many as 8 instruments have been under observation .
It having appeared that during the winter the in certain of the instruments had deteriorated either by or evolution of gas from the lamp-black of the bulbs , experimenbs made in the Chairman 's laboratory which proved that such was the case .
New thermometers were made and enclosed in jackets not provided with platinum electrodes ; the bulbs were also made of black glass , having the stems covered with black enamel .
, after careful exhauslion , were placed under observation , but did not register temperatures higher than had been previously observed .
Advantage was taken of an oifer kindly made Professor Thorpe to make solar radiation observabions on his recent clipse Expedition Grenada , , and two of the instruments were lent to .
He now returned them to the Observatory , ether with copies of the he was able to procul.e on the occasion .
Electrical Anemograph.\mdash ; This instrument , after a lengthened in the Experimental House and the execution of certain minor tions by Mr. Kempe , has been dismounted and varded to the Valencia Observatory by insbrtlctions of the Council .
The external parts were eviously put into thorough repair by 1Ir .
Munro , in order to fit the raph for the rough weather to which it will be exposed when erected on a hill almost overlooking the Atlantic .
Dines ' Anemometer.\mdash ; Trials have been made of two anemometers constructed on a new principle by Mr. W. H. Dines , B.A. Owing , however , to structural defects , both instrumenfs broke down before any final results were obtained , and were returned to the maker for repair .
Glycerine Barometer.\mdash ; This instrument , very considerably deteriorated by , was dismounted by Mr. Jordan in June , and after thorough and repair by lVIr .
J. Steward , was erected refilled with new fluid .
Pendulum Experimente .
the request of General Walker , cerbain experiments were made with the view of stability of the imental H as a site for operations .
These having proved that building unsuitable , a wooden erection 13 .
bas been constructed , at the desire of the Pendulum Committee of the Royal Society , in the lower South rall of tho Observatory , on the spot occupied in 1873 by Captain Heaviside , wheIl experimenting with the Russian pendulum .
( See Report for fn this room it is the intention to erect the Indian Pendulum AppaReport of the Committee .
ratns recently returned by Professor Pierce from.the United States , and swing the so as to obtain a differential connexion with recent swings in New York .
Subsequently , it is intended to convey the whole to the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , where other series of observations and experiments will be condtlcted with a view to connecting Greenwich with Kew .
At the request of the Rfeteorological Council , various experiments were tried with the view of selecting a suitable paper for use with the Beckley anemographs , and also of remedying certain defects found attendant on the employment of gelatinised photogl.aphic curves in processes of mechanical reduction in the Meteorological Office . .
VEBIFICATION OF INSTBIJME]NTS .
The following instruments have bsen verified , and their constants determined : \mdash ; 1 Unifilar Magnetometer and an lnclinometer for the Falmouth Observatory .
Two Inclinometers have been purchased on commission for the Bureau of Navigation , Washington , 1 each also for the Ekaterinburg Observatory and the Lighthouse Board , Helsingfors .
2 Dip Needles have been procured and tested for the Mauritius Observatory ; pair for the Lisbon Observatory ; 7 Thomson 's patemt compasses with 7 vertical force instruments have also been examined for the Imperial Japanese Navy .
1 Unifilar , 2 Compasses , and 2 Inclinometers have been tested for opticiaIlS , and 2 Unifilars are at esent undergoing vel'ification .
The total number of other instruments compared in the past year was as follows:\mdash ; Barometers , Standard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
31 Marine and Station . . . . . . . . . . . .
92 Aneroids .
124 Total . .
Thermometers , ordinary Meteorological . .
1320 Standard and Chemical . . . . . .
210 Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . . .
45 Clinical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9054 Avitreous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
816 Solar radiation . . . . . . . . . . . . .
45 Total. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Report of the Kew Committee .
Hydrometers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
512 Anemometers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15 Rain Gauges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6 Sextants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
139 Index and Horizou Glasses , unmounted . . . . . . . . .
170 Dark Glasses , unmounted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
597 Theodolites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 Besides these , 32 Deep-sea Thermometers have been tested , 16 of which were subjected , in the hydraulic press , without injury , to pressures exceeding two tons on the square inch .
27 Thermometers have been compared at the freezing-point of mercury , making a total of 11549 for the year .
Duplicate copies of corrections have been supplied in 84 cases .
The number of instruments rejected on account of excessive error , or which from other causes did not record with sufficient accuracy , was as follows:\mdash ; Thermometers , clinical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
67 ordinary meteorological . . . . . . . . . .
49 Various . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
112 7 Standard Thermometers have also been calibrated , and supplied to sociebies and individuals during the year .
1 Redier Barograph , 1 Richard Hygrometer , 1 Air Meter , 2 Telescopes , \amp ; c. , were also examined .
There are at present in the Observatory undergoing verification , 43 Barometers , 904 Thermometers , 2 Hydrometel'S , and 27 Sextants .
A question having arisen as to the true interpretation of the tables of Specific Gravity used iu connexion with the verification of instruments of the hydrometer class , a Sub-Committee has been appointed to cousider the ma er and authorize the adoption by the of certain definite rules .
VI .
RATING OF WATCHES .
The arrangements for rating mentioned in previous Reports have been continued during the year with great success , and up to the present 834 watches have been examined , of which 16 were submitted by the owners , and 818 by the manufactnrers or dealers .
490 watches were received as contrasted with 302 received during the corresponding period of last year .
They were entered for testiug in the following classes:\mdash ; For class , 436 ; class , 36 ; and class , 18 .
Of these 148 failed to gain amy certificate ; 16 passed in , 102 in , 224 in , and 8 obtained the highest possible form of certificate , the , class A especially good .
Report of the Keov mittee .
All ches which Class A certificates had marks assigned to them , indicating the of relative efficiency they exbibited during their trial , according to the following scale:\mdash ; The number of marks rded to a watch that only just succeeds in obtaining an A certificate is , while that awarded to an absolutely perfect watch would be 100 , made up as follows : for a complete absence of of daily rate , 40 for absolute freedom from change of rate with change of position , and 20 for perfect compensation for eifects of temperature .
In Appendix III will be found a statement giving the results of trial of the 20 watches which obtained the highest numbers of marks during the year , the first position being again attained\mdash ; with marks\mdash ; by the makel who occupied marks\mdash ; last year .
The number of watches obtaining a high figure in the marks list has , however , much increased .
The following table will indicate the nature of the trials to which ordinary certificates refer:\mdash ; Owing to the inconvenience and delay attend-ant on the employment of one safe for both hot and cold tests , a second was procursd , and has been fitted up as a refrigerator , thereby enabling two sets of watch trials to proceed simultaneously , and more constant temperatures in both heat and cold to be sustained for the necessary periods .
Special attention has been given to the examination of pocket ohronographs , in accordance with the request of the Cyclists ' Union .
Manufacturers have also been advised of certain mechanical defects in the action of the chronograph work , and latterly an has take1 place in respect of this .
Early in the year a communication was received from the Presidsnt .
Report of the Kew Committee .
of the Section d'Horlogerie de la Societo des Arts a Geneve , asking for full particuIars of the system of rating at this Observatory .
These were forwarded to him , and in acknowledging receipt of the same he expressed the gratification of his Council at the degree of accuracy obtained in the Kew trials the year .
Rating of Chronometers.\mdash ; Application having been made to the Committee to extend their system of watch rating to mal .
in chronometers , arrangements were carried out for effecting this .
A chronometer oven formerly constructed for the Office of the Board of Trade , being unemployed , was obtained on loan the Meteorological Council , in whose dession it was , and erected with the necessar-fittings in the Thermograph-room of the Observatory .
A scheme for rating and certifyiug was drawn up , of which following is a brief abstract .
The occupies 35 days , divided into 5 periods of 6 days eacb , and 5 intermediate days , namely , 1 day the of each period of test : 1st .
Chronometer at temperature of F. or C. 2nd , , , , , , , , 3rd , , , , , , , , 4th , , , , 5th , , , , , Certificates are granted to chronometers ) have days ' test as specified above , and vbose performance is such 1 .
The mean of the differences in each stage of the examination , between ( a ) the daily rate during that period , and ( b ) the several daily rates , does not exceed one second in any one of the stages .
2 .
The mean daily rate has not been affected by of temperattlre more than -sixth of a second per 1o F. , which is about a quarter of a second per 1o C. 8 .
The mean daily rate has not exceeded five seconds in any sffige of test .
The trials were commenced in , and up to present date seventeen marine and one si ( lereal chronometer have rated .
The Astronomer Royal having on enquiry certified as to the excellent working of Kullberg 's temperature regulator in the chronometer oven at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , the inventor been instructed to fit a similar one to the Kew testing case .
A Richartl Thermograph has also been procured , and is arranged to in the case with the chronometers , so as to afford a contintlous Report of the Committee .
record of the temperatures which they have experienced during the whole of their trial .
The range of temperature from to F. , to which the marine chronometers are submitted , has been decided upon after caxeful consideration , as being amply sufficient for determining the behaviour of chronometers under conditions to which they .
are usually exposed at sea , and no objections have yet been eived from makers or others to the adoption of the above range .
VII .
MISCPLLANEOIIS .
Photographic \mdash ; This has been supplied to the Observatories at Batavia , Coimbra , Falmouth , Glasgow , Lisbon , Mauritius , Oxford , Stonyhurst , St. Petersburg , and Toronto , and to the MeteoroIogical Office .
Blank forms have also been supplied to various Observatories and individuals .
Ab the request of Senhor Capello , of the Lisbon Observatory , an astronomical clock was procured and shipped to the Loanda Observatory , for use during the recent solar eclipse .
Two barograph tabulators , photographic applianoes , and various otbel insliruments have been procured , verified , and forwarded to the Observatories at Hong Kong and Mauritius .
The Observatory has been presented by the Rev. John Rigaud , B.D. , Fellow of Magdalen College , Oxford , with a bust his father , Stephen Peter Rigaud , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Astronomy and Radcliffe Observer , who formerly assisted his uncle , the Rev. S. Demainbray , in carrying on the Observatory .
Exhibitions , \mdash ; At the request of the Council of the Royal Meteorological Society a number of old instruments were exhibited at the Exbibition held by the Society in the rooms of the Institution of Civil Engineers in March , and devoted this year to barometers .
Four sets of photographs illustrative of the various processes in use at diiferent periods at the Observatory have been contributed to the Photographic Exhibition , held in the Corporation Galleries of Art at Glasgow .
Library.\mdash ; In July the Superintendent received a letter from the Secretary of the Royal Society offering a number of duplicate volumes about to be removed from the Library at Burlington House , and forwarding a catalogue .
A selection was made of those suitable for the Observatory Library , and sixteen volumes were accordingly sent down to Kew .
Presents of publications were received during the year from\mdash ; 34 Scientific Societies and Institutions of Great Britain and Ireland , and 92 Foreign and Colonial Scientific Establishments , as well as numerous private individuals .
Report of the Committee .
Jfagnetic Reductions.\mdash ; At the request of Professor Balfour Stewart , the Superintendent prepared and submitted to the Committee of the British Association on the Reduction of Magnetic Observations , report on the comparison between Wild 's , Sabine 's , and the Greenwich methods of determining the solar diurnal range of the declination .
Workshop.\mdash ; The machine tools procured for the use of the Kew atory by grants from the Government Grant Fund or the Donation Fund have been kept in thorough order .
House , Grounds , and Footpath.\mdash ; These have all been kept in order during the year .
Her Majesty 's Commissioners of Woods and Forests have kindly complied with the request of the President and Council of the yal Society that the Observatory Staff should have a free passage at all honrs through the yard tenanted by the lessee of the Old Deer Park , and accordingly an iron turnstile has been erected at the expense of the Committee at the entrance gate to the Park .
The necessary external repairs and painting of the building have been carried out by Her Majesty 's Commissioners of Works as usual .
Owing to the increase of work now undertaken by the Observatory Staff it has become necessary to consider means of increasing the available accommodation , and of providing more space by addition either to the Observatory building itseIf or to one of the outbuildings .
Plans for both schemes have been submitted to the Committee , together with estimates of the approximate cost .
PERSONAL ABLISHMENT .
The staff employed is as follows:\mdash ; G. M. Whipple , B. Sc. , Superintendent .
T. W. Baker , Chief Assistant and Magnetic Observer .
H. McLaughlin , Librarian and Accountant .
E. G. Constable , Solar Observations and Rating .
HugoJTWFGBousotnxetarelrl , Verification Department .
Fi .
Dagwell .
H. A. Widdowson .
F. Oliver .
W. C. Gough .
Hi .
Redding .
M. Baker , Messenger and Care-taker .
Report of the Committec .
iIaqnetic Observations made at the Observatory , Long. W. , for year October 1885 to September 1886 .
The observations of Deflection and Vibration given in the annexed ables were all made with the Collimator mark-ed , and the Kew 9-inch Unifilar Magnetometer by Jones .
The Declination observations have also been made lvith the netometer , Collimator Magnets and being employed the purpose .
The Dip observations were made with Dip-circle rrow No. 33 , needles 1 and 2 only being used ; these are inches in length .
The results of the observations of Deflection and Vibration give the values of the Horizontal Force , which , being combined with the observations , the Verlical and Total Forces .
These are expressed in both ] and metrical scales\mdash ; the unit ir the first being one foot , one second of mean solar time , and one grain and in the other millimetre , one second of time , and o1le rannme the factor for reducing the Enolisho to metric values being By request , the corresponding values in C.G.S. measure are also given The value of employed in the reduction is at perature F. The induction-coefficient is The correction of the magnetic power for temperature to adopted standard of F. is The true nces between the centres of the deflecting and deflecte magnets , when the former is placed at the divisions of the defiection bar marked foot and feet , are feet and respectively .
The times of vibration given in the Table are each rived from mean of 12 or 14 observations of the time pied by the magnet making 100 vibrations , corrections applied for the torsion-force of the suspension-thread subsequently .
No corrections have made for rate of chronometer or arc 04 vibration , these being always very small .
value of the constant , employed in the formula of reductio ] ] , is In each observation of absolute Declination the instrumental read .
ings have been referred to marks made upon the stole obelisk erected feet north of the Observatory as a meridian mark , the orientation of which , with respect to { he Magnetometer , was determined by the late Mr. Welsh , and has since been carefully verified .
Th observations have been made and reduced by Mr. T. W. Baker .

