I. " Researches on Solar Physics.-Series I. On the Nature of Solar Spots .
" By WARREN DE LA RUE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , BALFOUR STEWART , A.M. , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Kew Observatory , and BENJAMIN LOEWY , Esq. Received January 10 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) After giving a short sketch of the history of their subject , the authors proceed to state the nature of the materials which had been placed at their disposal , In the first place , Mr. Carrington had very kindly put into their hands all his original drawings of sun-spots , extending from November 1853 to March 1861 .
In the next place , their materials were derived from the pictures taken by the Kew heliograph .
A few pictures were taken by this instrument at Kew Observatory in the years 1858 and 1859 .
In July 1860 it was in Spain doing service at the total eclipse .
In 1861 a few pictures were taken at Kew , while from February 1862 to February 1863 the instrument was in continuous operation at Mr. De la Rue 's private observatory at Cranford , and from May 1863 until the present date it has been in continuous operation at Kew under Mr. De la Rue 's superintendence .
A Table was then given , from which it was deduced that the number of groups observed at Kew from June to December 1863 inclusive was 64 , while that observed by Hofrath Schwabe during the same interval was 69 .
In like manner , the number at Kew between January and November 1864 inclusive was 109 , while during the same interval -Iofrath Schwabe observed 126 .
It thus appears that Schwabe 's numbers are somewhat larger than those of Kew ; but probably , by means of a constant corrective , the one series may be made to dovetail with the other .
37 The authors then attempted to answer the following questions:(1 ) Is the umbra of a spot nearer the sun 's centre than the penumbra , or , in other words , is it at a lower level ?
( 2 ) Is the photosphere of our luminary to be viewed as composed of heavy solid , or liquid matter , or is it of the nature either of a gas or cloud ?
( 3 ) Is a spot ( including both umbra and penumbra ) a phenomenon which takes place beneath the level of the sun 's photosphere or above it ?
In answering the first of these , it was shown that if the umbra is appreciably at a lower level than the penumbra , we are entitled to look for an apparent encroachment of the umbra upon the penumbra on that side which is nearest the visual centre of the disk .
This , in fact , was the phenomenon which Wilson observed , and which led him to the belief that the umbra was nearer the sun 's centre than the penumbra .
Two Tables are then given , showing the relative disposition of the umbra and penumbra for each spot of the Kew pictures available for this purpose .
In the first of these , this disposition was estimated from left to right , this being the direction in which spots advance across the visible disk by rotation ; while in the second Table this disposition was estimated in a direction parallel to circles of solar longitude , and in this Table only spots having a high solar latitude were considered .
From the first of these Tables it was shown that , taking all those cases where an encroaching behaviour of the umbra in a right and left direction has been perceptible , 86 per cent. are in favour of the hypothesis that the umbra is nearer the centre than the penumbra , while 14 per cent. are against it .
It also appeared that , taking all available spots and distributing them into zones according to their distance from the centre , this encroaching behaviour is greatest when spots are near the border , and least when they are near the centre .
From the second Table , in which only spots of high latitude were considered , it was shown that , taking all those cases where an encroaching behaviour of the umbra in an up-and-down direction has been perceptible , 80*9 per cent. are in favour of the hypothesis that the umbra is nearer the centre than the penumbra , while 19 1 per cent. are against it .
The result of these Tables is therefore favourable to this hypothesis .
The authors next endeavoured to answer the following question:-Is the photosphere of our luminary to be viewed as composed of heavy solid , or liquid matter , or is it of the nature either of a gas or cloud ?
It was observed that the great relative brightness of facula near the limb leads to the belief that these masses exist at a high elevation in the solar atmosphere , thereby escaping a great part of the absorptive influence , which is particularly strong near the border ; and this conclusion was confirmed by certain stereoscopic pictures produced by Mr. De la Rue , in which the facule appear greatly elevated .
It was remarked that faculee often retain the same appearance for several days , as if their matter were capable of remaining suspended for some time .
A Table was then given , showing the relative posit on of sun-spots and their accompanying faculae for all the Kew pictures available for this purpose .
From this it appeared that out of 1137 cases 584 have their faculae entirely or mostly on the left side , 508 have it nearly equal on both sides , while only 45 have it mostly to the right .
It would thus appear as if the luminous matter being thrown up into a region of greater absolute velocity of rotation fell behind to the left ; and we have thus reason to suppose that the faculous matter which accompanies a spot is abstracted from that very portion of the sun 's surface which contains the spot , and which has in this manner been robbed of its luminosity .
Again , there are a good many cases in which a spot breaks up in the following manner .
A bridge of luminous matter of the same apparent luminosity as the surrounding photosphere appears to cross over the umbra of a spot unaccompanied by any penumbra .
There is good reason to think that this bridge is above the spot ; for were the umbra an opaque cloud and the penumbra a semi-opaque cloud , both being above the sun 's photosphere , it is unlikely that the spot would break up in such a manner that the observer should not perceive some penumbra accompanying the luminous bridge .
Finally , detached portions of luminous matter sometimes appear to move across a spot without producing any permanent alteration .
From all this it was inferred that the luminous photosphere is not to be viewed as composed of heavy solid , or liquid matter , but is rather of the nature either of a gas or cloud , and also that a spot is a phenomenon existing below the level of the sun 's photosphere .
The paper concluded with theoretical considerations more or less probable .
Since the central or bottom part of a spot is much less luminous than the sun 's photosphere , it may perhaps be concluded that the spot is of a lower temperature than the photosphere ; and if it be supposed that all the sun 's mass at this level is of a lower temperature than the photosphere , then we must conclude that the heat of our luminary is derived from without .

