XX .
Of the effects of the density of air on the rates of chronometers .
By GEORGE HARVEY , F. R S. E. &amp;c. Communicated by DAVIES GILBERT , Esq. V. P. R. S. Read May 13 , 1824 .
A MON G the different sources of error to which chronometers are commonly considered to be liable , the effects of the variable density of the medium in which the balance performs its vibrations has , in some degree , been overlooked .
That changes in the density of the medium , produce however a sensible influence on the rate of a delicate time-keeper will , I hope , clearly and satisfactorily appear , from the detail of the experiments , now respectfully submitted to the Royal Society .
The investigation of the subject has been undertaken in the four following points of view : First , by subjecting different chronometers to a less pressure than that afforded by the ordinary state of the amosphere at the level of the ocean .
Secondly , by submitting them to a greater pressure than that afforded by the atmosphere under the same conditions .
Thirdly , by removing chronometers from condensed into rarefied air , and vice versa .
And fourthly , to determine how far the rates of chronometers are affected by the ordinary aberrations of atmopheric pressure at the level of the sea .
i. To estimate the effects produced by the first of these conditions , the chronometers were placed beneath the capacious receiver of a large double barreled air pump , the pressure being indicated by an excellent mercurial guage .
To prevent any irregular effects from the unequal action of terrestrial magnetism , the position of each chronometer , with respect to the meridian , was preserved constant during the whole course of experiments.* The first chronometer selected was an eight day one , of the box kind ; and which , for the purpose of farther reference , I shall distinguish by the letter A. Its rate for ten days previous to the experiments was steady and uniform , amounting to 3 " .
i , the mean pressure of the atmosphere being 30.1 inches ; but when placed beneath the receiver of the air pump , under a constant pressure of eo inches of the mercurial column , the mean of four days observation gave an equally steady rate of 1 " .
, the chronometer having gained i".8 , by diminishing the density of the air in the ratio of 3 to 2 .
By farther exhausting the air , so as to make its density correspond with ten inches of the column of quicksilver , the mean of a like number of days gave a remarkably steady rate of + 1".7 , being an increase of 3".o on the former rate ; and by continuing the exhaustion until the mercurial column sunk to an inch , the average of the same number of days produced a rate of + 6".6 , being a farther increase of 4".9 .
Thus , an alteration of + 9".7 in the rate of the chronometer was prodused by diminishing the density of the air in the ratio of 30 to 1 ; and on removing it from the highly rarefied air in which the last experiment placed it , to the full pressure(29.85 inches ) of the atmosphere , the mean of ten days observations gave an average rate of -6 .
; t the time-keeper having altered its detached rate -3.2 , in consequence of the experiment .
These alterations of rate were produced in each case immediately after the density of the air was changed .
Adopting the last mentioned rate as a standard , the timekeeper was next submitted , during four days , to a pressure denoted by 25 inches of the mercurial column , when its rate was immediately changed from 6 " .
to -2- .
, being an increment of 4*. .
By farther diminishing the density to a quantity represented by 1o inches of quicksilver , the average of a like period gave a rate of + 4".7 , being another increment of 4L.9 ; and on again exhausting the air till the mercury was depressed to 5 inches , the mean of four days produced a rate of + 4'.6 , being a third increment of 1.9 ; and by restoring the chronometer to the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere , an immediate change in its rate took place ; the mean of ten days producing an average of --5 " ' , the close approximation of which to its former detached rate being remarkable .
The results of the preceding experiments are entered for the purpose of a more convenient reference in the succeeding tables ; together with the average heights of the barometer during the times the detached rates were determined ; and also the mean temperatures through the entire series of observations .
Eight-day Box Chronometer A. Mean I Number Mean Temp. Pressumr .
of days .
daily rate ... ... . .
, r d , First set of Experiments .
detached 58 30 in .
51 -3 59 20 in .
4.I.3 59 1 in .
4i+ 6'.*7 59 11n4+ 61.6 detached 59 29.85 in .
o -6"03 Second set of Experiments .
detached I 59 29.85 10.--6".3 57 5 in .
-2.2 58 o in .
4 2r 7 58 5 in .
4+ 4".6 detached 6 57,3o.oa in .
10 5o tt9 These remarkable changes having taken place in the daily rate of a chronometer , known under the ordinary circumstances of atmospheric pressure to preserve a steady uniformity of rate , I was inducedi to employ , in the next place , three good pocket chronometers , whose detached rates are recorded in the first horizontal line of the succeeding table .
The time-keepers were placed at the same instant beneath the receiver , and the air exhausted until the mercurial column sunk to half an inch ; when the singularly large increments entered in the second line were produced .
In the third horizontal line of the table , the rates of the chronometers are given after they were restored to the full pressure of the atmosphere ; and it is remarkable , how closely they approximate to the primitive rates , the greatest aberration being only I".^ , in chronometer C. Nor ought the close approximation also of the large increments produced by the exhaustion to a state of equality to be entirely overlooked .
The chronometers were taken each day from beneath the receiver for the purpose of comparison , and being wound up ; a circumstance only necessary once a week , with the chronometer A. Experiments with Pocket Chronometers , B , C , D. Mean Pressure .
Number e Mean daily Mean daily Mean daily Temp. of Days .
rate of B. ra te of C. rate of D. i58 detached +4".7 +3 +3.6 so.o4 in .
158 ?
|2 inch *6+ 3".5 + 18".6 + 23".5 56 detachin 6+5+ 1.6 + 2.4 30.01o in .
The preceding changes having been produced by diminishing the density of the air in the ratio of 60 to i ; an attempt was next made , to ascertain the effect of a more gradual diminution thereof , on the same chronometers .
he results are recorded in the following table : Experiments with Pocket Chronometers , B , C , D. .
Mean Pressure .
Number Mean daily Mean daily Mean daily .
Temp. of-Days .
rate of B. rate of C rate ofD .
detached 6 ':30.01 In , G _60in .
i__''_ _iZ 56 ?
0e.+ 2o .
o in .
58 ?
o ein .
4 _S _ 6_ " .
9 " .
580 1 loin .
4+ 18".5 +1 " .o + l " '.6 ?
57 * +6 ?
6 +15 570 d_etahed_ _ ____ , ___ _ _________ 29.76 in .
+66 +A still more gradual decrease of density was preserved in another set of experiments , the results of which arrecorded in the next table .
Experiments with Pocket Chronometers , B , C , D. Mean Temp. 570 Pressure .
detached 29.76 in .
Number of Days .
44 Mean daily rate of B. +.6 6.6 Mean daily ' rate of C. Mean daily rate of D. rI I,59 25 in .
j4 44 +3".6 + 5"7 59 15 .
+ 12 " 2 -+ 7".6 + 12'.1 600 ? ?
5 in .
4 192 + 11.4 +z20"6 6i detached , ++ 600 9g.84in .
4+ 6".0 + o"6 C +4". .
, ... . .
_ .
_ _ ... , _ .
r d. .
+ s " ?
',377 It is remarkable , that the increments resulting from the unequal detached rates of the chronometers B and D , should in two instances , viz. those corresponding to half an inch , and go inches of quicksilver , be precisely the same ; and in three other cases , viz. 15 inches , io inches , and 5 inches respectively , very nearly so ; the only considerable deviation being in the rate of the time-keeper D , when under a pressure corresponding to 25 inches of quicksilver .
This chronometer however recovered itself when under a pressure of 15 inches .
In another set of experiments , and of which the results are found in the succeeding table , the density of the air under the receiver was uniformly diminished by decrements represented by two inches of quicksilver , and which was accompanied by changes in the rates of the two chronometers employed , ( abstracting the occasional aberrations displayed by most time-keepers ) increasing proportionally as the density of the air was decreased .
From the nearly equal uniformity of temperature also that prevailed during each set of experiments , and from the positions of the chronometers with respect to the magnetic meridian having likewise been preserved constant , there can be no doubt but the different alterations of rate are due to alterations of pressure .
Experiments with Pocket Chronometers C , D. s~~~~~~- ?
~~T~~ ' , ' --Mean Pre e Number Mean daily Mean daily Temp. Pressure .
of Days .
rate of C. rate of D. Detaehed 0 , / 46 z9.I m.i 4+ 2.5 + 4.0 46 27 4i+ 3.0 + 5.2 47 25 4 +4 3.4 + 6.1 46 23 4+ 4.7 + 72 45 21 3+ 6.4 + 94 42 19 4 +7.6 + 1.3 43 I73+ 10.5 + 13.4 445 4+ 117 + 4.4 45 13 4+ 13.4 + 15.8 49 4 .
4+ 14.5 + 1748 94+ 16.o +1 8.2 48 73+ 19 .
oi + 2-4 50 ? ?
5i4+ 18.6 +22.1 49 13+ 19.9 The next set of experiments was performed with the eight day chronometer E , possessing the very excellent detached rate recorded in the first of the following columns .
In the second column of the same table is also entered the daily rate of the same chronometer when placed in air , diminished in density in the ratio of 60 to i ; and in the third column is its rate , when afterwards restored to the full pressure of the atmosphere .
The mean temperature of the first period was 56 ?
, of the second 58 ?
, and of the third 57 ?
IIIiIIiI 379 Experiments with an Eight-day box Chronometer , E. Mean Pressure Pressure during Mean Pressure prior to the the after the Experiment eimen Experiment Expe t 29.95 inches .
half inch .
29.80 inches .
Daily Rates .
Daily Rates .
Daily Rates .
L luorr.~ .
-~~ C-/ s* * ponding in density to the mean state of the atmosphere , at some remarkable places , situated at considerabie elevations above the level of the sea .
For this purpose several chronometers were supposed to be carefully transported from London to Geneva , every circumstance relating to temperature and magnetism remaining constant ; and from the succeeding table it will appear , that an alteration in the rate of the time keeper will be the necessary result .
In this experiment two box chronometers , and three of the pocket kind , had their rates carefully determined for five days , under a mean atmospheric pressure of e9.86 inches , and an average temperature of 50 ?
; and for a like number of days in air corresponding in density to 28 .
, inches , being the mean atmospheric pressure at Geneva , the average temperature being 48 ? .
The following alterations of rate resulted ; and which clearly demonstrated that a constant difference of 1,26 inches in the mercurial columns , was capable of affecting very sensibly the rates of the chronometers employed .
Experiment for Geneva , elevated so fathoms above the level of the Sea .
0 Mean TermPlace , perature Mean Mean daily Mean daily Mean dail yM ean dail yea daily uxring the Pressure . ?
rate of A. rate of C. rate of F. rate of G. rateof H. Experiment .
so Detached Lonond , 50 29.86 in .
5 -33 + o.6 + 2.0 -7 .
+7.9 Geneva A_ _ 5 .
3 7 , .
9 Geneva .
tS 7.-6^ in lc v _ , , , _ , , .
__ , , , __ .
Of the above alterations of rate it wi-ll be perceived , that the Of the above alterations of rate it will be perceived , that the box chronometer F lost by being submitted to a diminished pressure ; but that the others gained .
These results having been produced by air corresponding in density to its mean state at 201 fathoms above the level of the sea , another set of experiments was instituted on the supposition that a chronometer was removed from the shores of the Mediterranean to the lofty plains of La Mancha and the Castiles , where the mean barometric pressure is denoted by 27.81 inches .
The following table contains the results : Experiment for Madrid , elevated 329 fathoms above I the level of the Sea .
Mean Temp. Place .
during th Mean Number of Mean daily Mean daily Mean daily Mean daily Experiment .
Pressure .
Days .
rate of A. rate of F. rate of H. rate of I. 'o detached , t t , .
I , London , 5 29.86 in .
4 --45 + 3-1 + 7.4 --7.4 Madrid : 53 ' 27.81 5 2.4 +o.8 +.6 -13.1 ; _~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
; ... Three of the chronometers employed in the two preceding sets of experiments , viz. , A , F , H , were the same , and which therefore enables us to perceive , that a difference of J , ths of an inch in the barometric column produces an alteration of rate .
The changes also are more considerable in proportion as the difference in the altitudes of the mercurial column is increased , as is proved in the succeeding table .
Difference in the Increment Increment Decrement 2 Altitudes of communicated communicated communicated the Mercurial to the to the to the Columns .
Chronometer A. Chronometer H. .
Chronometer F. 1.26 in .
0o".6 + " .8 --".5.2o5 in .
|/ 2'.1 i+ 2."2 2 The mean also of five days observations with chronometer H , in a medium corresponding in density to 25.95 inches of mercury , being the average state of the barometer at the Palace of Ildefonso , 630 fathoms above the ocean , produced an increment in its rate amounting to s".o ; and which taken in conjunction with the results of the same chronometer recorded in the preceding table , prove that it 's rate varied nearly with the density of the medium in which it was placed .
This chronometer is one , on which in many delicate inquiries I particularly depended .
Although it appears from the preceding experiments , that the alterations of rate in the same chronometer depend on the density of the medium in which it is placed ; yet the magnitudes of the changes in different time-keepers appear o be very unequal , arising no doubt from peculiarities of construction .
Thus , a set of experiments was undertaken with two good box chronometers , in order to discover what changes would take place in their rates if they were trnsported from Vera Cruz , on the shores of the Pacific Ocean , to the Table Land of Mexico , where the mean atmospheric pressure is denoted by 2s inches of the barometer .
The result proved , that the change in the rate of the chronometer represented by K , amounted only to + 1.9 , and in the time-keeper L , to 5".o ; the former having gainedby the diminished pressure , and the latter lost .
Experiment for Mexico , elevated 1253 fathoms above the level of the Sea .
Mean Temp. ~Place .
SMean Temp. Mean Number Daily rate Daily rate Place .
during the Exeriment .
Pressure .
of Days .
of K. of L. Exper'iment .
Vera Cruz 540 30on .
5 5".9 4".8 Mexico _ 23 in .
4i -4.o n.2 Mexico 540 ~$in .
4 --d'.o 0 " .
If we again conceive a set of chronometers removed from the level of the ocean to Santa Fe de Bogota , or to the still loftier city of Quito , at which latter place the mean altitude of the mercurial column is 2i inches , the alterations of rate , recorded in the next table , will be found to result from the diminished pressure .
Experiment for Quito , elevated 1603 fathoms above the level of the Sea .
Mean .
Temp. r Place Tin Mean Number Date Daily rate Daily Place .
during the a Eperiment .
Pressure .
of Days .
of H. of C. Level of Le lof 478 ? ?
30 in .
4 +84".0 + " .o the ocean.i " ~Quito 4 +7 ?
v21 in .
5 +14'.2 + 6",2 ?
uit _.47J .
+6 6 ... Four chronometers were afterwards placed in air corresponding in density to 15 inches of mercury , being nearly the altitude of the barometer on Chimborazo , when the results recorded in the following table were produced .
Experiment for the summit of Chimborazo , elevated 3573 fathoms above the level of the Sea .
MPlacn Tdrin Mean Number Daily rate Dailyrate Daily rate Daily rate Experiment .
Pessue .
ofdays .
lace .
E mei ?
t. Pressure .
of days of A. of .
ofF .
of H. Level of the Sea 52 ? ?
30 in .
4 -1 " .9 + z".6 + 21".0 7".9 Summit of Chimborazo x51 15 in .
4+ 4".2 + 9'.6 3-.3 + 17".o ... ... ... ... Three of the chronometers used in the last experiment , viz. A , F , and H , were the same as those employed in the experiments for Geneva and Madrid ; and from which it will be perceived , that even under the influence of a much less pressure , the alterations of rate partook of the same character ; in one instance ( F ) losing from diminished pressure , and in the other cases ( A , H , ) gaining .
The changes in the last experiment are more considerable , in consequence of the greater rarity of the air .
As a final experiment on this part of the subject , the two excellent pocket chronometers ( C , H , ) employed in the last experiment , were placed beneath the receiver , and the air exhausted until the mercurial guage sunk to 12.95 inches , being the elevation of the barometric column observed by GAY LUSSAC in his magnificent aerostatic ascent .
The consequent alterations of rate were respectively + is3".2 , and + 19".2 .
From the preceding experiments it may therefore be inferred , that a chronometer constructed in air , corresponding in density to its mean state at the level of the ocean , will undergo alterations of rate , when removed into a region where the average density is sensibly diminished .
In a subsequent part of the paper it will also appear , that the uncertain fluctuations of the barometer at the level of the sea , produces in many cases minute , but sensible changes of rate .
2 .
The effects recorded in the preceding section of the paper having been produced by a diminution of atmospheric pressure , it was conceived , that results entirely the reverse would arise from an increase thereof ; that is , if a chronometer gained by being placed in air of a less density than that afforded by the ordinary state of the atmosphere , it ought to lose , by being subjected to air of a greater .
Accordingly , by introducing different time-keepers into a condensing engine , furnished with an appropriate mercurial guage , the opposite results here alluded to actually took place .
Not knowing the effects likely to be produced on so delicate a machine as a chronometer , by placing it in air condensed to any considerable degree , the time-keeper H , employed in the former investigations , was first placed in air of a density corresponding to 34 inches of mercury .
The result was an alteration of the mean detached rate of the chronometer from + 6".9 to + 5'.s .
The chronometer was necessarily removed from the condensing machine for a few minutes each day , for the purpose of comparison , and being wound up .
On restoring the time-keeper to the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere , its rate returned to + 6".5 , agreeing within o"0 .
of its former detached rate .
In a second experiment , it was subjected to air denoted in density by 38 inches of quicksilver , when its rate altered from + 6."5 to + 2".3 ; and on being again detached , its rate was restored to + 6".6 , agreeing within o."i of its former detached rate .
These mean rates were determined in each case for five days .
Hence , by contrasting the results obtained under the receiver of the air pump with those produced in the condensing engine , it will appear , that the chronometer gained in each experiment by diminishing the density of the air , and , on the contrary , lost , by increasing it .
In the next experiment the box chronometer M was placed in the condensing engine , under pressures corresponding to the mercurial columns recorded in the following table ; and from which resulted an alteration of rate from 6".9 to 16 ' .
i. Experiments with Box Chronometer M. Mean Mean Number Mean daily !
Temp. Pressure .
of days .
rate of M. 0a 49 30f in .
5 -6.9 48 6 in .
5 -8.3 48:42 in .
6 -9.5 ?
47 48 in .
5 0.8 | 48 54 in. .
6 -16.1 *_ t___ sx r_ ao / 6 .
' This chronometer , when placed under the receiver of the air pump in air of a less density than the ordinary state of the atmosphere , always received increments to its rate ; and from its having lost through the whole of its experiments relating to the condensed air , the same inference may be deduced from it as from the preceding chronometer .
The decrements in the above table , it will be remarked , -are very nearly uniform , from 30 inches to 48 inches ; but in the transition from 48 inches to s54 inches , the change is considerable .
It is also worthy of observation , that this time-keeper , when finally detached for twenty days , preserved a rate of nearly 15".o ; the dense air to which it had been so long exposed having materially augmented its losing rate , and apparently , communicated to it a permanent character .
The third set of experiments was with the pocket chronometers B and C , employed in the inquiries with the air pump , and the results of which are entered in the succeeding table .
Experiments with the Pocket Chronometers B , C. Mean Mean Number : " Mean daily Mean idaily Temp. Pressure .
of days .
rate of B. rate of C. 47 '3O in.6 +4.3 +1.2 47 45_fin .
5 -4.4 46 60o in .
5 -9-7 -8.2 j 45 75in .
: 5 17.2 -9.5 46 30 in .
5+ 45 +0.6 The rates recorded in the above table , it will be perceived , are decrements ; whereas , in the experiments performed in the rarefied air with the same chronometers , they were uniformly found to be increments ; and hence , the results agree precisely with those recorded respecting the time-keepers H and M. The almost perfect restoration of the detached rates , after the great changes produced by so considerable an augmentation of density as that corresponding to the mercurial column of 75 inches , is a very remarkable feature of the table .
s. To obtain alterations of rate of the most striking and remarkable kind , the effects:of suddenly removing chronometers from condensed into rarefied air , and vice versa , were estimated by a series of careful experiments .
A box chronometer , N , having its detached rate exactly coinciding with mean time when the barometric column was 29.95 inches , on being placed in air of a double density altered its rate to 8"6 ; and when afterwards placed under the receiver in air corresponding in density to an inch of mercury , the daily average became + 10".7 ; the difference in the densities having produced an alteration of 19".3 in the rate .
The observations were continued for each experiment five days ; and the changes in the rates were produced immediately after the time-keeper was removed from one condition to the other .
In another experiment with the same chronometer , the mean of six days , under a pressure denoted by 15 inches of quicksilver , gave a result of+ 4".1 ; but on placing it inair , having three times the mean density of the atmosphere , the average of the same number of days was -16".7 .
Hence it appears , that by removing the time$89 keeper from condensed into rarefied air , it gained ; and conversely , from rarefied into condensed air , it lost .
In a third experiment , the pocket chronometer 0 , gave a mean rate of6".5 when placed in air of a density denoted by 26 inches of the mercurial column ; but when placed in the condensing engine , in air of a density denoted by 45 inches of quicksilver , the rate changed to -2".7 ; and on afterwards restoring it to the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere during four days , the average rate became 7"7 .
The character of this chronometer , during many preceding experiments , was to gain with greater pressure , and to lose with less ; and the preceding experiment perfectly accords with the same results .
In a fourth experiment , the pocket chronometer C was employed , having a mean rate of + 1".2 when placed for six days under the receiver in air corresponding in density to 28 inches of mercury ; but on introducing the time-keeper into the .
condensing engine , in air of a density denoted by 60 inches of quicksilver , the rate immediately declined to 8".t .
In a converse experiment with the same chronometer , the rate was first determined in the condenser when the density corresponded to 36 inches of mercury , the average being o".7 ; but on removing it into the receiver , and exhausting the air until the mercurial gauge sunk to s7 inches ; the mean of four days observations gave an augmented rate of -+ 3".9 ; and on restoring the chronometer to air of the ordinary density , its mean rate became + -'.6 , agreeing within half a second of its original detached rate .
This timekeeper , in many antecedent experiments , had always been found to gain with less pressure , and lose with more ; and the tenor of the last experiments confirms the same law .
The preceding results for the chronometers C and N , may be conveniently arranged in the following tables .
Effects on the Chronometers C and N , when removed from condensed into rarefied air .
Mean , Mean Number Mean daily Mean Mean Number Mean daily Temp. Pressure .
of days .
rate of C. Temp. Pressure .
of days .
, rate of N. 50 ? ?
6 in .
6 0".7 470 60 in .
5 8".6 48 ?
i 27 in .
4+ 3".9 46 ?
i in .
5+ 'o".7 Effects on the Chronometers C and N , when removed from rarefied into condensed air .
Mean Mean Number Mean daily Mean Mean Number Mean daily Temp , ' Pressure .
of days .
rate of C. Temp. Pressure .
of days .
rate of N. 49 ? ?
28 in .
6+ 1".2 46 ? ?
15 in .
6 4".1 51 ? ?
60 in .
5 -8".2 450 go n. 6+ 16".7 An opportunity in another experiment was taken , when the chronometers C and D had been under the diminished pressure of 23 inches for five days , to remove them for a like period into the condensing engine , containing air of doub'e the mean density of the atmosphere .
The result of this application was , that the former rate became a decrement of 391 .
9".5 , and the latter a rate of a similar kind of 1 o.4 .
Knowing the merits of these chronometers , I ventured to predict , that if they were removed from the condensed air into an atmosphere corresponding in density to 21l inches of quicksilver , the transition would produce rates greater than those corresponding to 23 inches , in consequence of the time-keeper being placed by such an experiment in air of a less density than that corresponding to the first experiment .
The result verified the conjecture ; the average rate of the time-keeper C having become +5".0 , and that of Chronometer D +-12 " l.o These interesting results are recorded in the next table .
Experiments with the chronometers C and D , when removed from rarefied into condensed air , and vice versa .
Mean Mean Number Mean daily Mean daily Temp. Pressure .
of Days .
rate of C. rate of D. 470 23 in .
5 ; + ' , + .
g9'.4 ~7 ?
i 4g ? ?
60 oin .
5 7.0 .
448 21 i. I5 -+ ' 5'0 + 12".O ii ~ ?
---~i : ?
~r ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
-.-- , i*r ? ? ? ? ?
' , ? ? ? ? ?
By contrasting also the rates of the chronometers B and C , when subjected , as in two of the preceding experiments , to air corresponding in density respectively to half an inch , and 75 inches of quicksilver ; it will be perceived , that the effect of these opposite densities was to occasion an alteration of 40".7 in the rate of the time-keeper B , and of 28".l in that of C. These results are recorded in the next table .
Experiments with the Chronometers B and C , when removed from rarefied into condensed air .
Pressure .
Mean daily Mean daily rate of B. rate ofC .
in .
+23.5 +18".6 75 in .
-17".2 ---9.5 4 .
It becomes now an interesting enquiry , to consider how far the ordinary changes in the density of the air may be likely to exercise an influence on the rate of a chronometer .
The range of the mercurial column in London may , on an average , be estimated at 2 , inches ; and there can be no doubt but the difference produced in the density of the air by such a range must , if the transition be at all sudden , and the difference of density constant for twenty-four hours , or even less , be sufficiently considerable to affect the majority of chronometers .
A great difference , however , appears to exist in this respect among time-keepers .
The change of density , that in one machine of this kind would occasion an alteration or rate amounting to several seconds , in another , would scarcely produce any sensible effects ; and I have found , during the whole of these experiments , a considerable difference in this particular between pocket and box chronometers ; the former being most readily affected by alterations of atmospheric density .
In the following tables are recorded the results of different experiments , instituted with a view of determining the alterations of rate occasioned by small depressions of the mercurial column below the average state of the barometer for some days previous to each experiment .
Changes produced in the rates of the Chronometers H , 0 , P , Q , in consequence of a diminution of pressure denoted by one inch of mercury .
Mean Mean Mean daily Mean Mean Mean daily Mean Mean 'Mean daily Mean Mean Mean daily Temp. -Pressure .
rate of H. Temp. Pressure .
rate of 0 .
Temp. Pressure .
, rate of P. Temp. Pressure .
rate of Q. o , , 0 , / / o i , , o0 47 30.3 +85 47 30.1 + 8.0 45 30.*1 -7-0 49 29.9 + 4*2 46 29.3 +9.3 48 z29.1 + 87 46 29.1 -7.9 50 28.9 +3.4 The chronometer H was employed in many of the former experiments , and it will be perceived that it constantly gained with less pressure .
In the investigations instituted for Geneva and Madrid , for example , the increments communicated to its rate were respectively 1".8 , and 2".2 ; and in the present instance an aberration of the same kind was produced , amounting to o0.8 ; the increment being smaller than either of the preceding , in consequence of a less diminution of pressure .
The close approach to numerical equality also in the changes of rates recorded in the preceding table , is not unworthy of notice , the differences being respectively--d'.8 + 0."7 , -o."1 , and -o08 .
The time devoted to each set of experiments was three days .
In another set of experiments , the pocket chronometer D , and the box , chronometer F , were again resorted to , and placed under the different pressures recorded in the succeeding table .
The mean temperatures during the several periods of observation underwent no very considerable change ; and from the uniformly decreasing nature of the rates it is fair to infer , that the alterations resulted from diminished pressure alone , and that the successive inches of quicksilver were capable of producing them .
It is worthy of observation also , that the same pressure which produced an increment in the rate of the former chronometer , occasioned a decrement in that of the latter ; and by a reference to several of the foregoing experiments , it will be found that the time-keeper D in all cases gained with less pressure , and the chronometer F the contrary .
Changes produced in the rates of the Chronometers D , F , in consequence of regular decrements in the pressure denoted by an inch of mercury .
Mean Mean No. of Mean daily Mean ' Mean No. of Mean daily Temp. Pressure .
Days .
rate of D. Temp. Pressure .
Days .
rate of F. M , I 51 80.4 5 +4.2 51 304 + 3.9 50 29.4 4+ 6.4 50 29.4 4+ 3.1 50 28.4 4 7.4 50 ? ?
28.4 4+ 2.5 48 27.44 + 8.0 48 27.4 4 +21e .
In the next set of experiments , the time-keepers A , C , F , and R were employed .
The results are recorded in the next table ; and it will be perceived that a difference of pressure amounting only to 0.69 inches of mercury , for twenty-four hours , was capable of producing an alteration in the rate of F , of the same kind as observed in the experiments with 1__ _I y_ &amp; _ -r , -'F-__ _# -- the same chronometer for Geneva , Madrid , Chimborazo , &amp;c. The time-keeper R likewise lost with a diminution of pressure .
The chronometers A:and C received increments to their rates , in perfect conformity to those obtained in former experiments .
Changes produced in the rates of the chronometers A , C , F , R , in consequence of small but irregular decrements in the pressure .
M ean Mean No. of Mean M ean Mean Mean Diff. of .
Change of Change of Change of Change of Temp. Pressure .
days .
rate of A rate ofC .
rate of F. rate of R. pressure .
rate in A. a. rate in F. rate in R. Inches .
&lt; Inches .
0 IIf I !
i 47 2.6 4 -.29 + 3-4 2.5 --6.5 0.96.4 +/ 0 .
49 28.30 4 --1'5 + 3.9 +I.-3 -7.-3 j -_-----+ 1.38 -- .
-+0.3 o +09 So 29.68 4 -4.7 4-a .
i +.6-+6.4 / i &lt; .6 .
5 +8 29.687 + 2 .
+ 16-64 1i.68 + o.6 +0.8 1.2 I.l 48 28.oo 4 -4.i1+2.9+ , +0.4-7.5 ~._ , _:,1.69+ 0.8 46 29.69 4 -+.2 i 42 29.00o 4 ; 0.5 *7.69* To throw as much light as possible on this very interesting and important part of the investigation , six distinct sets of experiments were performed with the pocket chronometer H , and which , as before remarked , has been found uniformly to maintain an excellent rate when under a constant atmospheric pressure ; and to display an immediate alteration whenever the density of the air was sensibly changed .
In the succeeding table , it will be observed by inspecting the fifth and sixth columns , that in every case the rate of the time-keeper was increased as the density was dminished , and vice versa ; and also , that an alteration of o.6 inches in the mercurial column produced a sensible alteration in the timekeeper .
The want of perfect proportionality in the rates , may be attributed to the minute aberrations of the chronometer , produced by imperfections of workmanship , and to the errors arising from observation .
Changes produced in the rate of the time-keeper H , by small but irregular decrements in the pressure .
Mean Mean Number Mean daily Difference of Change of Temp. Pressure .
of Days .
rate .
Pressure .
rate .
inches .
Inches .
51 29.26 4 +8.7 .
-..06 + 1.o 49 2830 4 +9 .
--97+ -------------+ 1.38 -.4 47 29 .
84 +9L3 -1 + 1 .
46 28.00 4 +17+ 10.7 W----+------1.69 -.3 45 29.69 4+ 9.4 48 28.00 4+ 10.6+ 1 _----+ 2.25 + 1.2 47 30.25 4+ 9.4 15 + 44 29.00 4+ 9.825 --- ... . .
+ 1.02 -0.3 43 30.00 4 -+9.5 43 30.00 4 ++9 --0.77 + 0.5 42 29.25 4+ 10.0o .
, , ... -+ 0.-o.60 0.4 40 29.85 4+ 9.6 40 29.25 4 +-10.2 66 + .
From these experiments it may be therefore inferred , that a difference in the density of the atmosphere , represented by a quantity less than an inch of quicksilver , if continued for a day , was capable of affecting all the chronometers employed ; and this is an atmospheric change by no means uncommon in this variable climate .
Nor is it indeed neces$97 sary that the alteration of density should even continue for twenty-four hours , since , from the change of rate being instantaneous ( as will be proved in a subsequent page ) six hours will be sufficient , in some cases , to disclose it .
In cases however where the variations of the mercurial column are but small , and its transition from one state to another marked by a gradual character , the effect on the generality of chronometers is scarcely , if at all perceptible .
With a difference in the mercurial column of an inch and three quarters , or two inches , I have little doubt but all time-keepers will be influenced ; and it is moreover known , that from a species of reaction in the atmospherical columns , it not unfrequently happens that the greatest depression of the barometer succeeds to a considerable elevation of it , and vice versa , so as to exhibit a difference of this kind .
In the instance of the remarkable depression of the barometer , in December 1821 , Mr. HOWARD informs us it sunk on the 25th instant to 27.83 inches , and on the 27th remained for 12 hours stationary at 28.07 inches ; and from which time to the sist it rose to 30 inches .
Now , many examples might be selected from the experiments recorded in the preceding pages , to prove that a difference of two inches in the barometer , for twelve hours , would be sufficient to produce an alteration of rate ; and there can be little doubt , that had the rates of some good chronometers been carefully attended to* during this singular alteration of atmospheric density , variations of rate , at least equivalent to that produced by eI have attempted , but without success , to obtain the rates of some good chronometers during this period .
transporting a time-keeper from London to Geneva , would have been observed .
The sudden changes to which the density of the atmosphere is sometimes liable in this climate , renders it necessary , therefore , that a correction should be applied to the rate of a chronometer , proportional to the alteration of density ; the correction partaking in some cases of a positive character , and in others of a negative .
A similar correction must likewise be necessary when a traveller ascends to any considerable elevation above the sea ; for example , to Geneva , to the plains of the Castiles , or to the table land of Mexico .
The value of the correction will be different for different time-keepers , and in all cases must be determined by previous experiment .
The changes here alluded to can influence chronometers only beyond the tropics , since between them , it is knowna that the fluctuations of the barometer do not much exceed a quarter of an inch ; but in the arctic regions , where the causes which promote alterations of atmospheric density are the greatest , the effect on the time-keeper must be the greatest also .
In proportion however as we ascend above the level of the sea , the uncertain changes of the barometer are known to approximate to uniformity ; and therefore at higher elevations , ; the same chronometer would preserve a greater regularity of rate than in the lower regions of the air .
It becomes now an interesting question to determine , if the alterations of rate displayed by the different chronometers , under the various circumstances in which they have been placed in the preceding experiments , is immediately acquired the moment the change of pressure takes place ; or whether it is an effect which the air gradually produces on the machine .
By a reference to the experiments performed with the box chronometer E , it would seem as if the alteration of pressure required two days to produce its full effect on the rate ; but from other experiments now about to be recorded , and on which I place a greater dependence , it would appear that the change is immediate .
A pocket and box chronometer , possessing detached rates of +9".o , and + 1".9 , were placed under the receiver in air denoted in density by 2 inches of the mercurial column ; and which great degree of exhaustion was employed in order that , by producing considerable alterations of rate , the changes during very small intervals of time might be perceptible .
At the expiration of an hour , the increment produced in the rate of the pocket chronometer by a mean of three observations was found to be + 1i.33 ; whereas the detached rate in the same time would have amounted only to + o".37 , being a clear increase of o".96 in consequence of the diminished pressure .
At the end of the second hour the mean rate was found to be + 1".23 ; and in like manner at the termination of the third + 1".35 ; of the fourth + l"so ; of the fifth + l".lo ; of the sixth + o".8o , and at which rate it continued for several hours .
At the end of the nineteenth hour the rate recovered itself and became + 1".28 ; at the twenty-second hour + 1".25 , the twenty-third + o".8o , and at the twenty-fourth -+ '".o5 .
These different results may , in a practical point of view , be regarded as uniform , considering the unavoidable errors of observation in attempting to estimate the exact value of such minute inequalities .
Indeed , the mean of the hourly observations from noon to midnight presented the same result as the mean from midnight to noon , the former being + -'a.ig , and the latter + 1".lo .
The entire rate for the twenty-four hours amounted to + 26".6 , being an increase on its detached rate of 17".6 .
In like manner , the mean of three comparisons for the first of the horary observations with the box chronometer presented a rate of + 6".76 ; whereas the detached rate during the same time would have been + o".o8 , exhibiting an increment of o".68 due to the diminished density of the air .
By continuing the horary observations during the twenty-four hours , it was found that the mean of the horary rates for the first twelve hours was + o".92 , and of the last o " .
72 .
The entire rate for the whole period was + 20'.4 , being an increment to its detached rate of 18".5 .
The succeeding day the two chronometers were restored to the full pressure of the atmosphere ; and the first hour after their restoration , an attempt was made to discover the same increment in the rate of the pocket chronometer as that which it possessed under the receiver , but without effect ; the mean of four comparisons giving only a rate of + 0".45 , an increment bearing evidently a relation to the primitive detached rate of the time-keeper .
At the end of three hours the mean rate per hour was found to be + o".40 ; at the end of six hours 4+ o".46 ; at the expiration of nine hours + o".4 1 ; at the end of eighteen hours -+ 0".39 ; and at the end of twenty-four hours + o".44 ; the mean of the whole being + o".42 , and producing a rate for the entire twentyfour hours of 4+ lo".o8 .
Similar observations with the box chronometers produce a rate agreeing exceedingly near with mean time ; the entire rate for twenty-four hours being + 1".o , agreeing very nearly with its former detached rate .
Hence it may be inferred , that the change produced in the rate of a chronometer by diminishing the density of the air , is immediate and uznform in its effects ; and so also is the effect produced by increasing it .
It may not be uninteresting to furnish a few examples illustrative of the power which most chronometers have of regaining their original rates , or very nearly so , after they have been subjected to pressures , both considerably above and below the mean density of the air ; a property by which they are enabled to recover any temporary derangement they may undergo .
The following instances are selected from the time keepers placed under the receiver of the air pump .
The detached rates are those obtained under the ordinary circumstances of the atmosphere .
The pressure to which the chronometers were subjected , are denoted by the several inches of quicksilver .
Examples of Chronometers having nearly regained their original rates , after being subjected to different Pressures under the Receiver .
Detached + 4.91 Detached --.3 Detached+ 7.5 Detached+.4 -3 nz -23.8 5+ in+ 3 .
+26.9 5 in .
+21.2 Detached + 2 .
etae -5.9 Detached + 8.7 Detached + 3.4 Detached + 7.9 Detached.9 Detached5.9 Detached + 6 .
12 in .
19.2 JI5 in .
42 21in .
4.o1 26 in .
9.5 Detached + 8.2 Detached-2.6 Detached 6.4 Detached + 7.3 _____.____________._______ 402 The following are examples derived from the experiments performed with the condenser .
Examples of Chronometers having nearly regained their original rates , afte being subjected to different Pressures in the Condensing Engine .
Detached + 7.3 Detached + 4.3 Detached + o0.2 Detached + 7.5 Detached + 4 .
o in .
+ 3.15 in .
75 in .
9 .
goin..--2 go in..5.c )etached + 74 Dtaced etache -6 etached + 4.5 Detached 6 Detached.7 + 3 .
A similar restoration of rate was found also to take place by removing a chronometer from rarefied to condensed air , and afterwards restoring it to air of the previous density , as exemplified in two instances in the next table .
Examples of Chronometers having nearly regained their original rates , after being removed from rarefied to condensed air .
Mean Pressure .
Mean daily rate .
Mean Pressure .
Mean daily rate .
_ _______ 23 inches .
+ I".6 25 inches .
+.5 5 90 inches .
+ 1.6 g90 inches .
4 - .
2s inches .
+128.8 2g inches .
+ 6.1 _i __ ___ _ _ ?
~~~~~ ' ' 6 .
It was also found , that by restoring the above chronometers to air of any other density than that from which they were originally taken , the rate would not return to its primitive quantity .
When , for example , they were placed under a pressure of 21 inches , the rate of the first chronometer became + 14+.2 instead of +i " .6 ; and the daily increase of the second + 7".2 , instead of + 5".5 ; results in exact conformity with the general law which regulated the same chronometers in other experiments .
40$ aI]I I As a striking example of the power possessed by a chronometer , of immediately altering its rate to a quantity corresponding with every new circumstance in which it was placed , and also of regaining its original rate , after it was again restored to its primitive condition , the following table may be referred to ; and in which it will be perceived , that the original rate with which the chronometer departed , was still possessed within the small quantity o."2 , after the last experiments .
During the course of observations , the timekeeper was subjected to pressures from 6o inches to s inches ; and it will also be perceived , that the greatest deviation of the detached rate from the original rate , amounted only to 0o.8 .
The observations embraced a period of four months , and during which the temperature varied from 39 ?
to 60 ?
Detached + 7.9 Detached 7 .
28.6 in .
+ 9.7 4 in .
+ 5. .
Detached + 8.o Detached + 7.0 21 in .
+ 14.2 38 in .
4+ 2.3 Detached + 7.9 Detached + 8.o 15 in .
-+ 17.0o 5 in .
+ 26.6 Detached + 8.2 Detached + 7.5 12 .
19 in .
5n 26.9 Detached 4 7.8 Detached + 7.9 6o in .
6.6 40 in .
3 .
Detached + 8.7 Detached + 7.7 3 in .
+28.o The occasional imperfections of the valves of the condensing machine and of the air pump , have likewise afforded some interesting proofs of the truth of this investigation , In more than one instance it has happened , that the mercurial column of the gauge of the air pump has been elevated during the intervals of comparison , by the introduction of air ; and the effect of which was in all cases , an alteration of rate in the time-keeper , dependent on the degree of change .
For example , during the period when a pocket chronometer was subjected to air of a density represented by 12 inches of quicksilver , and when its rate was +lo".o , the gauge became imperfect , the quicksilver rising to 18 ' inches soon after the time of comparison ; the succeeding day the rate was + 7".5 .
Another chronometer under the same circumstances also underwent an alteration in its rate from + 18i.o to + 14 " . .
In another instance , the rate of the time keeper was + 15".o under a pressure of 4 inches ; during the next twenty-four hours the quicksilver rose to 12 inches , and the rate declined to +1 2".4 .
The next day the imperfection of the gauge still continuing , the mercury rose to i7 inches , and the rate sunk to + 9".9 .
Sometimes a part of the air contained in the condensing engine , by escaping , would occasion fluctuations in the rates of the time keepers ; but on restoring the machine to perfect order , they would immediately assume an uniform character .
Thus , when a box chronometer was placed in air of uniform density , corresponding to 45 inches of mercury , the rates for three days were respectively 1o".9 , io".6 , and 10.5 ; but on attempting to increase the density to 48 inches of quicksilver , the machine disclosed proofs of imperfection ; and the rates for three days were respectively -15".o , --._1"'.8 , and -.-o". .
The machine was then repaired , and air introduced into it of a density denoted by 51 inches 405 of the mercurial column , when the daily rates were 16o.0 , --15 " .
7 , and -6".o .
In another instance , a time-keeper maintained a steady rate of io".5 under a pressure of 40 inches .
During one day some of the air escaped , and the rate became 7".0 , The machine was then repaired and the former pressure restored , when the rate returned to -o.10s On the third day air again escaped , and the rate changed to --8",5 ; but on the fourth day the condenser being in perfect order , the time-keeper again returned to 0ll.7 .
Thus , even from the temporary imperfections of the air pump and condensing machine , may proofs be drawn , demonstrating the effects of atmospheric pressure on the rates of chronometers .
An experiment was also attempted , at the suggestion of Mr. DAVIES GILBERT , to discover if , by removal of the case of a chronometer , and presenting its balance and spring to the free action of the air , the effect on the rate would present a result analogous to that which it would furnish under ordinary circumstances .
With the case of the time-keeper in its proper situation , and the full pressure of the atmosphere on the machine , the rate of six days was --g"s ; but under the receiver with the mercurial gauge at 26 inches , it became for a like period is'.6 .
By removing the case , the detached rate became -16"4 ; and under the receiver , with the pressure of e6 inches , the rate was 15".8 ; the removal of the case having in both instances increased the losing rate of the machine .
On placing the time-keeper in the condensing machine under a pressure of an atmosphere and a quarter , the case being still removed , the rate was found to be15'.5 , differing but little from that determined in its detached state .
By augmenting the quantity of air to an atmosphere and a half , the daily variation still presented the same quantity ; but on removing the chronometer into the receiver under a pressure of 13 inches , the rate became 13".3 ; and with a pressure of 1i inches , -8".8 .
Hence it appears , though the experiment is too limited to draw from it any general conclusion , that in this particular case , no alteration of rate took place by increasing the density of the air above its average state ; but by diminishing it below the same point , the rate was accelerated .
It may be proper however to advert to a circumstance , which may be regarded as having possibly exercised some influence on the foregoing results ; and that is , the change of temperature always attendant on sudden alteration in the density of the air .
When the chronometers were placed , for example , beneath the receiver of the air pump , a sudden diminution of temperature was in all cases produced , proportional to the degree of exhaustion ; and on restoring the medium to its original density , an elevation of temperature resulted , equally rapid in its effects .
So also when the time-keepers were placed in the condensing engine , the sudden compression of the atmosphere , produced an immediate liberation of caloric , and which was followed , when the equilibrium of air was renewed ; by a depression of temperature below its original condition .
These alterations of temperature , although producing a change of only two or three degrees , in a delicate thermometer , are nevertheless regarded by Mr. DALTON as the effect of a much greater degree of heat ; but which is permitted to impart its influence only for a very few seconds , in 407 consequence of the immediate effort made by the receiver , and the surrounding objects , to restore the primitive temperature .
Now , although a sudden change of temperature , of forty or fifty degrees , if allowed to maintain its influence for any considerable time , would perhaps in some cases produce a small derangement of rate ; yet , from its continuing to act only for a few seconds , and producing , even on a sensible thermometer only a very small effect , it cannot be supposed that the adjustments for temperature in the balance of a chronometer , protected as they are by the thick case of the machine , can be in the least degree influenced by it .
Accordingly , on introducing a very susceptible time-keeper , H , into an atmosphere 50 ?
warmer than the ordinary state of the air , for ten seconds , no visible alteration of rate resulted ; and it may hence may be inferred , that the changes of temperature which have taken place during the preceding experiments , in consequence of variations in the density of the air , can have had no share in producing those changes of rate which have been perceived ; and that they resulted from alterations of pressure alone .
A change of rate in a chronometer , from an alteration in the density of the medium in which it is placed , considered as a simple fact , seems demonstrated from the foregoing experiments .
Different hypotheses may probably be advanced respecting the cause ; but , the supposition which appears the most probable is , that a change takes place in the arc of vibration of the balance , in consequence of the altered density of the air , and a consequent variation in the rate of the timekeeper , from the imperfect isochronism of the balance .
408 The true measure of time is derived from the balance , and its vibrations will be isochronous , when the adjustments of the spiral spring are such as to admit of its elastic force varying directly with the arcs of vibration .
As a necessary consequenee of this principle , the application of any disturbing force will occasion no derangement in the rate , since the arcs of vibration , whether increased or diminished , must all be performed in the same absolute time .
It may however be questioned , whether a chronometer ever existed , in which the elastic force of the spring varied precisely with the arcs of vibration ; for it has been shown by Mr. ATWOOD , * that though the weights employed to counterpoise the elastic force of a spring , at different angular distances from its quiescent position , may appear to be in the exact ratio of those distances , discrepancies too small to be detected by the nicest experimenter may exist , but yet be considerable enough , from the delicate nature of the machine , to create a sensible alteration of rate .
Any change in the arc of vibration of the balance of a chronometer thus constituted , must therefore be attended with some alteration of rate ; and that it is extremely , probable such a change must take place when a time-keeper is placed in air of different densities , the arcs increasing when the density is diminished , and diminishing when it is increased , may be inferred , from the extreme delicacy of the balance , and its springs , and their consequent susceptibility of change .
The daily aberration of a chronometer , arising from a change in the arc of vibration , has been demonstrated by Mr. ATWOOD to be the following function .
2 ( 4(a ) l } 91 r -- ' in which a denotes the primitive arc of vibration , a the arc resulting from the action of a disturbing force , and which , in addition to the case assumed by the abovementioned philosopher , may be regarded as either greater than a , or less than it ; and n , the exponent , denoting the ratio between the elastic force of the spring , and the angular distances from the point of quiescence .
Supposing the primitive arc constant , the above function will undergo different modifications , according to the values assigned to the elements a ' and n. In the first place , we may conceive the elastic force of the spring to vary directly with the angular distances from the point of quiescence , the exponent n being , in this case , de- , noted by unity .
This supposition , by causing the whole function to vanish , will indicate a perfect isochronism ; and that therefore , whatever magnitude be attributed to the arc a ' , in consequence of the action either of rarefied or condensed air , no alteration of rate will result .
And it is remarkable that , during the whole course of experiments , I have not met with an instance to illustrate this case .
Every chronometer examined exhibited a tendency either to gain or lose , when the density of the air was changed ; and which therefore proves , that perfect isochronism is seldom if ever attained in the construction of a time-keeper .
Secondly , we may assign to the exponent n , a value less than unity ; or , which is the same thing , we may suppose the elastic force of the spring to vary in a less ratio than that of the angular distances from the point of quiescence ; and which hypothesis will produce different results , according to the values assigned to a ' ; for if the time-keeper be placed in condensed air , so as to make a ' less than a , apositive value will be given to the function , or the chronometer will gain .
If , on the contrary , the time-keeper be placed in rarefied air , so as to make a ' greater than a , still preserving the magnitude of n , the numerical value of the formula will be negative , and the chronometer lose .
Cases to illustrate both suppositions are recorded among the experiments .
Thirdly , we may suppose the elastic force of the spring to vary in a greater ratio than the angular distances from the point of quiescence , and in which case n must be greater than unity .
If then we suppose the chronometer to be placed in condensed air , the value of a ' becoming in such a case less than a , the numerical value of the function will be negative , and a retardation of rate will be the necessary result .
But if the time-keeper be placed in rarefied air , so as to make a ' greater than a , preserving the same value of n , the nfumerical result of the formula vx ill be positive , and the time-keeper must gain .
And this , according to the foregoing experiments , is by far the most general condition of chronometers .
It may also be inferred from the same circumstance , that time-keepers are more frequently constructed with the elastic forces of their springs , varying in a greater ratio than the angular distances from the point of quiescence , than the contrary .
The preceding suppositions will therefore explain why A_I1 some chronometers , during the preceding experiments , gained with diminished pressure , and lost with increased ; whilst others possessed properties precisely the reverse .
In determining the rates of the time-keepers , I had the advantage of a transit instrument , and an astronomical clock .
Plymouth , Alarch i , 1824 .

