1872 .
] Lieut.-Col. A. Strange a new Theodolite .
May 2,1872 .
The EARL O ROSSE , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
In conformity with the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows:\#151 ; Prof. William Grylls Adams , M.A. Andrew Leith Adams , M.B. Frederick Le Gros Clark , F.R.C.S. Prof. John Cleland , M.D. Prof. Michael Foster , M.D. Prof. Wilson Fox , M.D. Arthur Gamgee , M.D. Rev. Thomas Hincks , B.A , Prof. William Stanley Jevons , M.A. Prof. George Johnson , M.D. Prof. Thomas Rupert Jones .
Major Thomas George Montgomerie , R.E. Edward Latham Ormerod , M.D. Edward John Routli , M.A. William James Russell , Ph. D. The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On a new Great Theodolite to be used on the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , with a short Note on the performance of a Zenith-Sector employed on the same work .
" By Lieut.-Colonel A. Strange , E.R.S. , Inspector of Scientific Instruments , India Department .
Received April 25 , 1872 .
On the 28th of February , 1867 , I had the honour of submitting to the inspection of the Royal Society a Transit-Instrument and a Zenith-Sector made for the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , to be used respectively for1 the determination of longitude and latitude on that work .
These were one instalment of the following list of geodesical and astronomical instruments which the Secretary of State for India deputed me to design and superintend under construction :\#151 ; ^ One Great Theodolite , with a 3-feet Horizontal Circle .
By Messrs , lroughton and Simms .
Two Zenith-Sectors .
By Messrs. Troughton and Simms .
Two 5-feet Transit-Instruments .
By Messrs. T. Cooke and Sons , York .
Iwo smaller Transit-Instruments ( ) .
By Messrs. A -Cooke and Sons , York .
g Iwo 12-inch Vertical Circles ( Germanform ' ) .
By Messrs. Repsold , for registering Transit-Observations .
By Mr. Charles Frodsham .
wo Galvanic Chronograph y MM .
Secretan and Hardy , Pari Three Astronomical Clocks .
tol .
xx .
318 Lieut.-Col. A. Strange a new Theodolite [ May 2 , The Zenith-Sector was , shortly after its exhibition to the Society , forwarded to its destination , as have been more recently the other Zenith-Sector , one of the 5-feet Transit-Instruments , the two 12-inch Vertical Circles , the two Galvanic Chronographs , and the three Astronomical Clocks .
Of these , the first forwarded Zenith-Sector alone has been used in actual field-operations .
It has been employed during two seasons in determining latitudes in Southern India , by Capt. J. Herschel , R.E. , F.R.S. , of the Great Trigonometrical Survey .
One of my main objects m designing the instrument , which is entirely unlike any of its class , was to qualify it for more rapid observing than had hitherto been possible .
In this respect it has been successful .
Capt. Herschel reports that he can observe with it a series of stars differing only five minutes of time in Light Ascension .
Each star is observed twice in reversed positions of the telescope at the same culmination , in the manner prescribed by the Astronomer Royal for the Zenith-Sector designed by him for the British Ordnance Survey .
Each of these two reversed observations involves two settings of the telescope in altitude , .
four microscoped , two level , and one micrometer reading .
To admit of all these operations being performed within five minutes of time with the deliberation requisite for observations aiming at fractions of a second , demands not only convenience of instrumental construction , but the greatest system and efficiency in the observatory arrangements , and a very high order of skill on the part of the observer .
In the latest Report on the Survey , that for 1870-/ 1 by Major Montgomerie , R.E. , Officiating Superintendent , that officer states that " Captain Herschel 's further experience with the Zenith-Sector has on the whole confirmed his first impressions as to its excellence .
" Captain Herschel reports on an anomaly in the level readings , amounting , as I understand through private sources , to about 0"*3 , the cause of which he has not yet been able to detect .
It may possibly , as he suggests , be partly due to the rigidity of the instrument as a whole not being absolute .
I am myself inclined to suspect that imperfections in the levels themselves may in some measure contribute to the observed discrepancies .
The levels have been reported , and are known to me , as deficient both in uniformity of run and in sensibility ' ; they are certainly not on a par with the graduation , which is superb , or with the optical power of the telescope and microscopes .
The accuracy of the instrument is thus limited by that of the levels , which aie its weakest member .
I may here state incidentally that I have not been able to procure levels in England which come up to the standard now required , and I must therefore have recourse to foreign makers , who have paid more attention to these adjuncts than , as it seems , it is worth the while of our English artists to do .
Comparing the facility of working the Zenith-Sector and the former Astronomical Circles , Captain Herschel says :\#151 ; " The Sectors are con^ petent to turn out at least double the amount of work of the same ordei , adding , " at this rate two or three years ' work wmuld equal in amount the for the Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
187 the date of the arrival of the Sectors ; and ten years ( a whole result up o d for which to arrange a system of observation on comparativeI{- ' agnitude ) will see us in a position to look back on the 8 WfflMm as on the commencement of a new era .
" arrival of the \#174 ; the Qreat Theodolite , which I do myself the honour this I now paSS o ^ scrutiny of the Royal Society .
A brief history of eveningt0 e^jJinstrument may here with propriety be recorded , the design o ^ egent at the disposal of the India Survey Department There are a game or(jer as the one under consideration , namely , two instrumen Horizontal Circles 3 feet in diameter , the largest Theodoh employed , \#151 ; hence the term Great Theodolite .
There dimension ^ ^ Jpy than four in existence of that size\#151 ; one by Rams-m\gt ; 1 Yh which the greater part of the principal triangulation of Great p'tain was executed , the two Indian instruments , and the one now before ^Of the two Indian instruments , one was made by Messrs. Troughton and I fflg about forty-five years ago , its Horizontal Circle bearing divisions cut HjIII 0f the celebrated Edward Troughton himself .
The other was constructed and divided in India by the late Henry Barrow , then attached aTinstrument-maker to the Survey , its design being the work of the late Sir George Everest , then Surveyor-General of India .
There are also in use with the Department several theodolites of 2-feet diameter , and of course many of smaller sizes .
The principles of construction , the advantages , and the defects of all these instruments were a constant theme of discussion to the officers of the Department , who being accustomed , according to the excellent system of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , to take every observation personally , have thereby at all times been led to display the most critical fastidiousness in every thing relating to the apparatus with which use has made them perfectly familiar .
Sir Andrew Scott Waugh , R.E. , F.R.S. , then Surveyor-General of India , having collected all the experience of his officers , including of course his own , gathered during many years of actual work in the field , combined the whole into a " Project and Specification of a new Great Theodolite , " which in 1355 he placed in my hands for the purpose of guiding me in the preparation of a design , with working drawings and a fully detailed speci-\gt ; fication .
The project in question fixes all the general principles intended to be kept in view , and is ample for that purpose ; but it enters into very few'details , merely pointing out what is required , without definitely stating how it is to be attained , and it contains no drawings whatever , and only three or four slight diagrams .
The part I had taken in the previous discussions had supplied me with a knowledge of the desiderata not actually described , knowledge which of course was also in great measure derived from the fact that I had worked for five years with Troughton s Great Theodolite , and subsequently with other excellent instruments .
Lieut.-Col. A. Strange a new Theodolite [ May 2 , At the time the task of executing this design was entrusted to was commanding a party of the Great Trigonometrical Survey H(H| carrying a chain of principal triangles along the eastern coast of Peninsula , a work known as the " Coast Series .
" I at once , durin* p leisure as I could snatch from these primary duties , began the design .
but I soon found that it was quite impossible to do justice to so difficult task whilst the mind and time were engrossed by matters of more pressi * urgency , and of at least equal difficulty and importance .
Short and broken periods did not admit of the continuity of thought and attention that were indispensable , and the work made very slow progress , besides needing constant revision in consequence of oversights and omissions caused by such desultory application .
This will be understood , by any one who has gone through the same process , when I mention that the conception I had formed of my task was that I should execute , in the most minute detail , working drawings to scale of every part of this complex structure , in plan , section , and elevation , accompanied not only by an ample written descripton of every part , but also an explanation of the grounds on which the numerous novelties introduced had been adopted ; so that when the whole was in the maker 's hands , he need do little more than reproduce the drawings in metal by simple measurement , turning to the specification in all cases of doubt .
The intention was that the whole should be sent home to be executed without any personal superintendence by the designer .
In April 1857 , being at work in the Goomsoor Hills , a notoriously unhealthy tract , I was struck down by jungle-fever , being nearly the last of my camp of about 200 followers , only one of whom escaped , to succumb to that dreadful malady .
A few months afterwards I was sent , under medical advice , to the Neilgherry Mountains for the recovery of my health ; this gave me the leisure requisite for my design , which otherwise I might never have enjoyed .
For several months I did little else but work at my drawings , which I now offer to the notice of the Society .
One of these alone , the complete vertical section , occupied me nearly incessantly about three months , involving as it did the reconsideration of every other drawing in order to render the whole consistent .
At the expiration of my leave on medical certificate , the design , though very far advanced , was not complete ; I had to lay it aside to resume my ordinary field duties on the Coast Series triangulation .
In 1869 , on my promotion to a regimental majority , I quitted the Survey in accordance with the regulations of the service , and , after twenty-six years ' continuous residence in India , returned to England .
Feeling a natural reluctance to leave the completion of my design to other hands , and , indeed , doubting whether any one unacquainted with my views could have completed it satisfactorily , I took it with me , hoping to finish it , as I ultimately did , at home , after my retirement from the army .
In 1862 I was directed oy the Secretary of State for India to superin1872 .
] for My Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
321 tend the carrying out of this design and that of the other instruments already enumerated .
It is now ten years since the work was placed in the hands of Messrs. Troughton and Simms\#151 ; a long period certainly .
The delay has arisen from several causes\#151 ; from the removal of the factory of that firm to Charlton , from the necessity for various modifications and some experiments , particularly on aluminium bronze as the material for some portions of the instrument , from the time occupied in the designing , supervising , and testing the other numerous and important instruments which I have enumerated , and , finally , from the time which my duty of superintending the whole scientific instrument supply of India necessarily occupies .
I cannot here attempt a full description of the instrument .
I trust that such a description may at some future time be executed by myself , or by some officer of the Survey Department ; but , for my own part , the leisure necessary for such an undertaking , although all the necessary materials are at hand , is denied me at present .
I will , however , indicate some of those salient features which may be rendered intelligible without illustrative figures .
The principal dimensions are as follows :\#151 ; Horizontal Circle.\#151 ; 3 feet in diameter , divided on silver to 5 ' , and read to tenths of a second by five equidistant micrometer microscopes .
Vertical Circle.\#151 ; 2 feet in diameter , similarly subdivided by two micrometer microscopes for ordinary terrestrial work ; but by four , whose positions can be shifted , for astronomical work .
Telescope.\#151 ; Aperture 3'25 inches ; focal length 36 inches ; supplied with twodistinct eye-ends , carrying respectively a vertical and a horizontal parallel wire micrometer , and furnished with both bright and dark field illumination .
Vertical Axis.\#151 ; A truncated cone of steel , base downwards , lO'G inches high , and 3'31 inches and 2 06 inches in diameter at the base and summit respectively , the flange being 4'4 inches in diameter , and of the " isolated " form described by me in the lloyal Astronomical Society 's Memoirs , vol. xxxi .
Horizontal Axis.\#151 ; 13-18 inches between the shoulders of the pivots , cast in one piece of gun-metal with steel pivots .
The Vertical-Axis socket and the five Horizontal-Microscope arms are cast in one piece of aluminium bronze .
The Stand has three massive mahogany legs , braced together with horizontal and oblique bars of wrought iron , wooden braces having been found , in great hygrometrical changes , to impart azimuthal disturbance .
I believe this to be the first stand for such instruments in which the means foi levelling approximately are completely worked out .
Within each leg , divided vertically for that purpose , is a long very substantial square-thieaded upright screw actuated by a ratchet-wheel and endless screw , and capable of being immovably clamped , after adjustment , at points 15 inches asunder .
On the upper conical ends of these three screws rest 322 Lieut.-Col. A. Strange a new Theodolite [ May 2 , three inverted radial grooves formed in the lower surface of a massive cast-iron circle , which is thus supported by the three elevating screws without being attached to them , and which is therefore able to accommodate itself to expansional changes without restraint .
The upper surface of the cast-iron circle is turned flat and true , and receives the three feet of the instru .
ment .
It has three lateral screws for centering the instrument over the station-mark , as in existing large theodolites ; it has also three rollers , capable of being pressed upwards by strong spiral springs thrown in and out of action by a cammed lever , this arrangement , already in use elsewhere , being intended to facilitate the setting of the horizontal zero .
The Feet-screws.\#151 ; These are , as usual , three in number ; no part of such instruments has been so entirely neglected as this .
Whilst the Circles , Micrometers , and Levels indicated fractions of a second of arc , the foot-screw remained so coarse and primitive in form that the due levelling of the instrument was a matter of tedious difficulty , accomplished after all by a sort of adroitness helped by accident .
The first desideratum was that all clamping of the foot-screw after adjustment should be rendered unnecessary , since no clamping arrangement hitherto tried could be used without disturbing the level after adjustment .
What was wanted , therefore , was that no azimuthal deviation of the mass of the instrument should ensue from an unclamped foot-screw , however loose .
The idea , as it presented itself to my mind , was that the effect which would be produced by vertical expansion of the end of the tribrach should be imitated if possible .
After much thought I realized this idea by a very simple contrivance , the principle of which the annexed diagram will make plain .
The tribrach arm is slit horizontally near its lower surface .
This leaves a kind of long flat tongue of metal , which , being of considerable width , has great horizontal rigidity , but , being comparatively thin , is easily bent vertically .
The outer ond of the tongue rests on the stand ; the foot-screw passes through the solid upper part of the tribrach , but not through the lower tongue .
It is evident that when the screw is turned inwards with the screwing* motion , the solid end of the tribrach will be raised , the slit being widened by the vertical yielding of the tongue , and vice versd .
But since the end of the screw does not rest on the stand , but on an intermediate plate or tongue , which is actually a portion of the tribrach itself , it is clear that if a lateral fore\#174 ; be applied to the tribrach , no motion will be caused thereby , however loose the screw may be , so long as that force is less than the lateral rigidity o 1872 .
] for ^ie Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
the plate or tongue .
The lateral force generated by turning the instru- , meat in azimuth , when taking observations , is greatly within this limit .
This arrangement may be found usetul in other cases .
It is perfectly successful ; but it is only available where a moderate range of vertical movement is needed .
In the present instance , as the stand on which the instrument is supported is always first made sensibly level , the vertical ; ran\#187 ; e of the foot-screw need not be more than yoo " an \#187 ; ^ut in , practice this is capable of being extended , without fear of injury to the parts , to about of an inch .
In the actual construction , the tongue above described as formed by slitting the tribrach , is , in fact , a separate plate , similar in plan to the tribrach , and firmly bolted to the centre of the instrument .
The second desideratum in the feet-screws was delicacy and certainty of action ; this I attained by applying to them a clamp and tangent-screw arrangement very similar in principle to that sometimes applied to circles .
Although the feet-screws themselves are very coarse , having about eight threads only per inch , the arrangement is such that one entire revolution of the slow-motion tangent-screw alters the level only one second of arc .
Hence the foot-screw , though coarse and strong enough to bear the great weight imposed on it , is for the first time in keeping , in point of refinement , with the most delicate parts of the instrument .
The Horizontal Circle and its Mic The disposition of these most important parts has been the subject of much controversy .
Two arrangements are possible:\#151 ; ( 1 ) that called " the flying-circle plan , in which the microscopes are immovably attached to the basis of the instrument , the circle revolving with the telescope ; and ( 2 ) " the flying-micrometer " plan , in which the circle is fixed and the micrometers revolve .
The question was carefully considered , and the balance of advantages appearing to be in favour of the second plan , that was prescribed in the project , and has been adopted .
I have no doubt as to its superiority for instruments of this kind .
The horizontal circle is attached at the centre to the tribrach , and is elsewhere perfectly free .
The Guard Circle.\#151 ; 'This addition was made to another instrument by Sir A. S. " Waugh , late Surveyor-General , some time before the present de-| sign was commenced .
I saw it subsequently in an Altazimuth by Brunnei , of Paris , in the Great Exhibition of 1862 .
It was , I believe , arrived at in both cases quite independently .
It consists of a second horizontal ciicie , exterior to and concentric with the circle carrying the working graduation already mentioned .
There is a space of about of an inch all round between the two circles , and the upper plane of the outer guard circle stands about the same quantity above that of the inner principal or working circle .
The guard circle has supporting radii of its own , quite independent of those of the inner circle .
The guard circle has four objects : O ) protects the working circle from accidental injury ; ( 2 ) it tends to disti i\#151 ; A Lieut.-Col. A. Strange on a new Theodolite [ May 2 , bute changes of temperature uniformly over the circumference of the work-ing circle ; ( 3 ) it receives the clamp and tangent-screw , leaving the working circle absolutely free from contact at all times ; and ( 4 ) it bears a strongly cut set of divisions , more visible to the naked eye than those of the working circle , which are exceedingly fine , and therefore inconvenient for setting the instrument approximately in azimuth .
Relieving Apparatus.\#151 ; The moving parts of the instrument , namely , the pillars and their foundation-plate , the vertical-axis socket and horizontal-microscope arms , the telescope and the vertical circle , with its adjuncts , constitute a very ponderous mass , weighing 284 lbs.* If the whole of this great weight were allowed to bear on the flange of the vertical axis , the friction would be so great as almost to cause cohesion .
To obviate this in similar cases , as in that of Trough ton 's Great Theodolite , internal rollers were introduced , pressed upwards by means of spiral springs against the lower surface of the moving mass .
But this arrangement was imperfectly carried out in Troughton 's instrument ; and it is clear that at that time the action of such an antifrictional apparatus was not fully understood .
There were three soft brass rollers with central holes revolving on axes fixed immovably in a circular ring , which ring was pressed upwards by three spiral springs .
The late Sir George Everest , in his work on the * Measurement of the Meridional Arc of India , ' p. cvii , states that when the instrument was first received " angles t#ken with it could not be depended on to within 50 seconds of the truth , " \#151 ; a defect which was found to be mainly attributable to the inequality of tension of the three spiral springs , which exerted forces respectively in the proportions 8 , 11 , 15 .
Shortly after I joined the Survey Department , I , with the consent of its head , made a new set of rollers myself , the axes of which were fixed to them , instead of to the frame , the axes revolving in Y bearings .
This improved the levelling of the instrument ; but it was not possible , with every care , to maintain perfect equality of tension of the three springs ; and this part of the instrument always caused anxiety .
The arrangement adopted for the present instrument is as follows:\#151 ; The three rollers are of larger diameter than before , and they are of steel , finished with extreme care .
They do not support the weight on their axes at all , but on their circumferences , precisely as is now customary with heavy revolving observatory-domes .
The friction is therefore no longer of the rubbing , but of the rolling kind .
The three rollers are connected , as in domes , by a light ring , which performs no function but that of keeping them equidistant .
Means are also provided for restricting the path of the rollers to a circle perfectly concentric with the axis of motion of the instrument-linally , the rollers are pressed upwards by no less than forty , instead ol only three , spiral springs , by which multiplication a generally uniform tension is much more easily maintained , the mean tension of each spring * This has been recently increased to 299 lbs. by additions .
1872 .
] for the Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
being about 6*2 lbs. , and of course -^-instead of A of the whole .
An external deep groove , filled with oil , into which a thin circular rib dips , effectually excludes dust from the relieving apparatus and from the vertical axis .
The proper amount of relief has been a question much discussed .
Sir George Everest , in his work above quoted * , fixes it , somewhat arbitrarily , at | of the whole moving mass .
This cannot be accepted as a general rule , because , if the mass were very great , \#163 ; of its amount might be sufficient to cause a most destructively abrasive action .
My method of adjusting the relief is as follows :\#151 ; I assume that , for the purposes of horizontal angles only , the azimuthal motion cannot possibly be too free .
I therefore first make the relieving force nearly equal the weight of the moving mass .
Then I try the levelling of the instrument .
" With such excessive relief this is sure to be unsteady .
I then cautiously diminish the relieving force until I obtain steady levelling .
When I have done this , I know that I have given all the relief which is possible in the existing construction , consistently with the general purposes for which the instrument is required .
In the present instrument the result stands thus:\#151 ; Weight of moving mass ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 284 lbs. f Relief ( 40 springs X 6'2 lbs. ) ... ... ... ... .
248 " which leaves nearly | of the moving mass active , instead of as prescribed by Sir G. Everest .
Horizontal Tangent-screw.\#151 ; This , although apparently a mere subordinate agent , is really one of great importance and presenting some difficulties .
There is always " loss of motion " in every screw unprovided with special means to prevent it .
Loss of motion increases the difficulty of observation and also causes insecurity ; for the tangent-screw is the link which connects the moving with the fixed parts , and the length of this link , once adjusted in observation , should be unalterable .
Several methods of obviating loss of motion have been tried ; and^though many of them are suitable to small instruments , none have been quite satisfactory with large ones .
The matter attracted great attention when I was in the Indian-Survey Department , and I was much engaged in studying it .
The general conclusion I came to was that , however a spring might be applied , its tension ought to be constant and invariable .
Hitherto this had not been the case , an ordinary external antagonizing spiral spring having been used , the compression of which was continually being varied by the action of the tangent-screw .
It was found that after the observation had been made the spring continued to act , which was fatal to the observation .
And the evil was brought home to this agent by the fact that in a particular instrument the springs attached * Page eviii .
t Since this adjustment was effected , the weight of the moving mass has been increased by additions to 299 lbs. , and the springs will have to be readjusted ; but the a solute weight left active will probably remain nearly as at present .
326 Lieut.-Col. A. Strange a new Theodolite [ Hay 2 , to two different tangent-screws having been accidentally made to act in directions opposite to each other , the observation was disturbed in opposite ways .
* ' % In the present instrument I have adopted an arrangement which , I be .
lieve , is not new in principle , namely the " divided-nut " principle , sometimes used in machinery to prevent loss of motion .
The block into which the tangent-screw is tapped is divided transversely , ' and the two halves are forced asunder , and therefore against the contrary sides of the screw-threads , by four internal spiral springs .
The tension of these springs is necessarily constant , and therefore not subject to the disturbance and slow recovery ot elastic force unavoidable m an external spring .
IMeans are supplied for regulating the tension of the four springs , which must be a little in excess of the force necessary to move the revolving mass , without taking the parts to pieces .
This arrangement I believe to be on the whole satisfactory .
Bubble-trier.\#151 ; Experiments have constantly to be made to determine the angular value of the scales of levels of such instruments .
Hitherto there have been no conveniences for this purpose .
I have supplied a frame attachable at will to the telescope , on which the level under experiment can be laid , in order to compare its scale with the angular indications of the vertical circle .
- Bearing of the Transit-Axis pivots.\#151 ; -Hitherto these have always been capable of adjustment in order to level the axis : but to this two objections exist:\#151 ; first , there is always ground for fearing lest the adjustable parts should be left loose , in which case , owing to their distance from the centre of motion , they would be disturbed by the momentum generated in rotating the instrument in azimuth ( since this would alter the relation between the telescope and the horizontal circle , observed angles would he vitiated to the extent of such disturbance ) ; secondly , adjustable bearings must necessarily support the pivots at points and not surfaces , and consequently tend to wear them into grooves .
For these reasons the bearings are immovably fixed and finally adjusted -by the maker by grinding .
They are also of what is known as the segmental form , first introduced , I believe , by the Astronomer Royal when designing the great Greenwich Transit-Circle , a form which supports the pivot throughout its length and over a considerable surface , and which has been found at Greenwich to wear the pivots so equally that no sensible change in their form in the course of many years has been detected .
Still the application of the non-adjusting principle to a large portable instrument must be considered as an experiment .
Should the horizontality of the transit-axis undergo , as it may , a gradual change , the officers of the Survey will have to restore the adjustment by means of the grinder supplied with the instrument , an operation , no doubt , of some delicacy , even in the hands of an experienced mechanic , but which , I trust , nothing but accidental violence to the parts will ever render necessary .
1872 .
] for the Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
Level Mountings.\#151 ; The mode in which the levels are mounted was contrived by me , at the request of Sir Andrew Scott Waugh , then Surveyor-General of India ; and I made the first example with my own hands , in about 1853 , for Troughton 's Great Theodolite .
The same arrangement has since been applied to many other large instruments in India .
Being rather a matter of detail , I shall here only say that its object is to remove , as much as possible , all restraint from the glass spirit-level , which should be allowed to adapt itself to changes of temperature with perfect freedom .
The level is also encased in an external glass cylindrical cover , to protect it from sudden currents of air tending to alter rapidly the temperature of the parts .
I believe that these principles were first applied by the Astronomer Royal to the Greenwich Altazimuth ; but the details in my plan are somewhat different , and , as I venture to think , more complete .
The appliances for adjusting the level in my plan are , I believe , new in their arrangement ; my main object in devising them was to obviate strains , without introducing risk of shake , and to improve delicacy of action .
Material.\#151 ; Whilst the instrument was under construction I became acquainted , at the Great Exhibition of 1862 , with aluminium bronze , an alloy of 90 parts of copper with 10 parts of aluminium .
Its properties seemed to be exactly those required for the material of such an instrument .
With some difficulty , arising from the fact that no national establishment exists in England for such purposes , I got some experiments made on the alloy ( partly by the makers , partly by the kindness of Mr. John Anderson , C.E. , of the Woolwich Gun Factories * ) , which showed that the rigidity of the alloy might be taken at three times that of ordinary gun-metal .
This being the most important property for my purpose , I determined on using it , and on reducing the thicknesses , not the depths , of all the lower parts of my design .
This would still leave such parts twice as rigid as if constructed of the previous dimensions in gun-metal .
Accordingly the elevating screws of the stand and their bearings , the tribrach , horizontal circle , vertical-axis socket , horizontal-microscope arms , and foundation-plate carrying the pillars are of aluminium bronze .
The remaining parts , having much less weight to bear , are of the usual materials , gun-metal and yellow brass , which are more easily worked than the bronze .
Probable performance of the Instrument.\#151 ; The trials I have as yet made of the instrument lead to the conclusion that it is subject to no essential defect , and that the objects sought in its construction have been to a great extent attained .
Actual work in the field , submitted to all the elaborate verifications indispensable in modern geodesy , can , however , alone ascertain its character j and this must be a work of years .
I now allude , as it may seem on first consideration rather prematurely , * See my paper , Monthly Notices of the E. Astron. Soc. , 14th Nov. 1862 , vol. xxiii .
o. 1 , " On Aluminium Bronze as a Material for the Construction of Astronomical and ot er Philosophical Instruments .
" 328 Rev. S. HaughtOn on some [ May 2 , to such a point for the purpose of guarding against undue expectations and of disclaiming excessive pretensions .
The work that has been executed in India is of such a character , as attested by an enormous accumulation of results treated with absolute rigour , that , as respects some branches of it , I do not shrink from saying that improvement is scarcely possible .
In respect to horizontal angles , the most important of all its branches , an elaborate investigation by Colonel Walker , R.E. , F.R.S. , the present head of the Survey , shows that the probable error of such angles , deduced impartially from a vast mass of materials , lies between + 0"-28 and + 0"-20 , according as the circumstances are more or less favourable * .
I believe that residual errors of that small amount contain hardly any instrumental or observational element , but that they are chiefly due to atmospheric disturbances , which no instrumental perfection can control .
As to vertical angles , the test of direct levelling compared with trigonometrical levelling , applied to a distance of 2700 miles , shows a difference between the results of these two independent methods averaging 7-3 inches per 100 miles , or of an inch per mile .
There seems little room for instrumental improvement here .
In respect to astronomically determined azimuths , I hope the present instrument will give improved results , on account of the superior steadiness of level which I think it possesses .
For the determination of astronomical latitudes it has more powerful and more complete vertical appliances than any former theodolite , and it should therefore give better results .
Finally , I believe it will be found to be more permanent in its adjustments , and more convenient both to adjust and to use , than any of its predecessors .
To these points , as those which makers , not being observers , are peculiarly prone to overlook or mismanage , I have given the most earnest attention , knowing how indispensable it is that a man engaged in the most difficult and refined of all observations should be spared every anxiety and inconvenience which it is in the power of mechanical contrivance to prevent .
If I have in some measure only attained this apparently humble object , I shall feel that the labour of years and the anxious pon-derings of many a sleepless night have not been in vain .
II .
" On some Elementary Principles in Animal Mechanics.\#151 ; No. V. On the most perfect form of a Plane Quadrilateral Muscle connecting two Bones .
" By the Rev. Samuel Haughton , F.B.S. , M.D. Dubl .
, D.C.L. Oxon .
, Fellow of Trinity College , Dublin .
Received April 3 , 1872 .
Let us suppose two bones , A B and A ' B ' , lying in the same plane , joined by muscular fibres , and any two planes drawn through these bones intei* Account of the operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , by Col. Walker , R.E. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. , Superintendent of the Survey , vol. i. pp. 83 , 84 ,

