X. " On the Long Spectrum of Electric Light .
" By Professor GEORGE G. STOKES , M.A. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received June 19 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author 's researches on fluorescence had led him to perceive that glass was opaquie for the more refrangible invisible rays of the solar spectrum , and that electric light contained rays of still higher refrangibility , which were quite intercepted by glass , but that quartz transmitted these rays freely .
Accordingly he was led to procure prisms and a lens of quartz , which , when applied to the examination of the voltaic arc , or of the discharge of a Leyden jar , by forming a pure spectrum and receiving it on a highly fluorescent substance , revealed the existence of rays forming a spectrum no less than six or eight times as long as the visible spectrum .
This long spectrum , as formed by the voltaic are with copper electrodes , was exhibited [ June I9y 166 at a lecture given at the Royal Institution in 1853 ; but the author , for reasons he mentioned , did not then further pursue the subject .
Having subsequently found that the spark of an inductioncoil with a Leyden jar in connexion with the secondary terminals yielded a spectrum quite bright enough to work by , he resumed the investigation , and examined the spectra exhibited by a variety of metals as electrodes , as well as the mode of absorption of the rays of high refrangibility by various substances .
The spectra of the metals may be viewed at pleasure by means of fluorescence , and the mode of absorption of the invisible rays by a given solution may be at once observed ; but there are difficulties attending the preparation in this way of sufficiently accurate maps of the metallic lines ; and the great liability of the rays of high refrangibility to be absorbed by impurities present in very minute quantity renders the certain determination of the optical character , in this respect , of substances which are only moderately opaque a matter of considerable difficulty .
Having found that Dr. Miller had been engaged independently at the same subject , working by photography , the author deemed it unnecessary to attempt a delineation of the metallic lines ( for which , however , he has recently devised a practical method that was found to work satisfactorily ) , or to examine further the absorption of rays of high refrangibility by solutions of metallic salts , &amp;c. The present paper contains therefore mainly results obtained in other directions in the same wide field of research .
Among the metals examined , the author had found aluminium the richest in invisible rays of extreme refrangibility ; and accordingly aluminium electrodes were employed when the deportment of such rays had to be specially examined .
As the bright aluminium lines of high refrangibility do not appear to have been taken by photography , a drawing of the aluminium spectrum is given , with zinc and cadmium for comparison .
The author has also described and figured the mode of absorption of the invisible rays by solutions of various alkaloids and glucosides .
Bodies of these classes , he finds , are usually intensely opaque , acting on the invisible spectrum with an intensity comparable to that with which colouring matters act on the visible .
This intensity of action causes the effect of minute impurities to disappear , and thereby increases the value of the characters observed .
It very often happens that at some part or other of the long spectrum a band of absorption , or maximum of opacity , occurs ; and the position of this band affords a highly distinctive character of the substance which produced it .
Among natural crystals , besides the previously known yellow uranite , the althor found that in adullaria , and felspar generally , a strong fluorescence is produced under the action of the rays of high refrangibility , referable not to impurities , but to the essential constituents of the crystal .
A particular variety of fluor-spar shows also an interesting feature , though in this case referable to an impurity , exhibiting a well-marked reddish fluorescence under the exclusive influence of rays of the very highest refrangibility .
This property renders such a crystal a useful instrument of research .
With some metals broad , slightly convex electrodes were found to have a great advantage over wires , exhibiting the invisible lines far more strongly , while with some metals the difference was not great .
The blue negative light formed when the jar is removed , and the electrodes are close together , was found to be exceedingly rich in invisible rays , especially invisible rays of moderate refrangibility .
These exhibited lines independent of the electrodes , and therefore referable to the air .
This blue light has a very appreciable duration , and is formed by what the author calls an arc discharge .
The paper concludes with some speculations as to the cause of the superiority of broad electrodes , and of the heating of the negative electrode .

