.
$75 .
] Mr. W. Turner on the Placentation 0/ Hyrax .
151 / inning from the half in the basin to the half in the beaker , and now m versed .
But after the half in the beaker has been effectually poisoned 111 motion in it completely ceases , the unpoisoned half , however , continu-i ig to contract independently .
If the poisoned half be now irritated , by I ipping with the forceps or otherwise , it does not itself move , but the Dher or unpoisoned half immediately responds to the stimulation .
If S. s usiniata be the species of Medusa employed , this result is particularly .'ell marked , from the fact that the unpoisoned half responds to the sti-mation by performing the highly distinctive spasmodic movements [ ready described .
I have also satisfied myself that curare asserts its r eculiar influence upon individuals of the covered-eyed Medusae .
In all ases overpoisoning paralyzes the excitable as well as the motor system .
l%e strength of the solution I used was 1 in 2500 , and in this solution the Moisoned half required to soak for half an hour .
( e ) If any sized portion of a contractile strip cut from the gonocalyx f A. aurita be immersed in a sea-water solution of any of the above-aentioned anaesthesiating substances , the contractile waves in the poisoned \gt ; ortion of the strip are first progressively slowed and finally blocked .
Jpon now restoring the poisoned portion of the strip to normal sea-rater , the contractile waves again begin to pass , and eventually do so as reely as before .
If any of the nutrient tubes which cross such a contractile strip transversely be injected with a solution of any of the narcotic poisons , the lontractile waves become blocked at the line occupied by that tube .
If a lischarging lithocyst be similarly injected , it ceases its discharges .
From .he effects of chloroform and weak solution of morphia , however , it recovers in the course of a night .
Alcohol so injected at first causes an increase in the frequency and potency of the discharges , and afterwards progressive torpor .
In time , however , the torpidity wears away , and finally the Medusid returns to its normal state .
IV .
u Note on the Placentation of By Willtam Turner , M.B. ( Lond. ) , Professor of Anatomy , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 13 , 1875 .
In his ' Lectures on Comparative Anatomy , ' vol. v. p. 326 , Sir Everard Home stated that the placenta in Hyrax is annular , like that in the cat ; and in vol. vi .
he gave two drawings of the placenta ( pis .
61 \amp ; 62 ) , in which he not only showed its zonary form , but figured , though he did not describe , the sac of the allantois as equalling in length the bag of the chorion .
Prof. Owen , in his description of the placenta of the elephant ( Phil. Trans. 1857 ) , refers to the placenta of Hyrax as similar in spongy texture and vascularity to the annular placenta of the Carnivora , and 152 Mr. W. Turner on the Placentation Hyrax .
[ Dec. 16 , ubsequently ( Comp. Anat .
Vertebrates , iii .
p. 742 ) states that the villi are imbedded in a decidual substance , and the surface of attachment to the uterus is less limited than in the elephant .
Prof. Huxley , in his Hunterian Lectures , 1863* , described the placenta of Hyrax as having such an interblending of the foetal and maternal portions that it is as truly deciduate as that of a rodent .
In his * Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals/ 1871 , he further points out that the maternal vessels pass straight through the thickness of the placenta towards its foetal surface , that the allantois spreads over the interior of the chorion and gives rise to the broad zone-like placenta , and that the yelk-sac and vitello-intestinal duct early disappear .
In direct opposition to the views of these anatomists , M. H. Milne-Edwards has recently stated t that there is nothing in the placenta of Hyrax to indicate the presence of a caduca , and the allantois does not overstep the limits of the placental zone .
The villi , he says , are mostly simple , very analogous to those of an ordinary pachyderm .
In the midst of the zone vascular vegetations are engaged in corresponding uterine cavities , but they adhere no more than do the analogous prolongations in the ruminant to the crypts in which they are included ; they can be detached with the same facility -without tearing through any thing , and without carrying away any portion of uterine tissue .
M. George , in an elaborate monograph on the genus Hyrax , published in June lastj , figures not only the placenta , but the gravid uterus of this animal .
He says nothing , however , of the structure , which he was apparently precluded from examining , but adopts the view of M. H. Milne-Edwards that it was non-deciduate .
The antagonism between the views of the English and Erench anatomists , not only as regards the structural details , but the conclusions as to the nature of the placentation , has rendered it advisable to have the placenta of Hyrax reexamined ; and , with great liberality , Prof. Huxley has placed at my disposal his specimen , which had been preserved in spirit of wine .
I shall now describe what I have seen .
The uterus was two-horned .
Two well-developed ova , each about 3| inches long , were in one cornu .
One ovum had been opened , the membranes and placenta examined , and the foetus removed ; the other ovum was entire .
The placenta was zonary , and varied in different parts of the zone from between | to | inch in breadth , whilst the average thickness was inch .
The non-placental areas of the chorion were smooth and translucent , and , as in the Carnivora , branches of the umbilical vessels ramified in them .
The zone on the chorion was intimately blended with a corresponding zone in the uterine mucosa .
When the placenta was stripped off the uterus , not only was the mucosa in the * Elements of Comparative Anatomy , 1864 , p. 111 .
t Considerations sur la Classification des Mammiferes , Paris , 1868 .
J Annales des Sciences Naturelles , 1875 .
I $75 .
] Mi* .
W. Turner on the Placentation of Hyrax .
153 -^cental zone removed along with the chorion , but for some distance on i *ch side of the zone the mucosa tore away from the muscular coat of hue uterus .
1 :'i The foctal surface of the placenta was smooth , and on it the umbilical is sssels ramified before entering the villi of the chorion .
Some injection as passed into them , but it did not flow into their intravillous branches , he uterine surface of the artificially separated placenta was flocculent ; id the flocculi were seen , on microscopic examination , to consist of mdles of connective tissue intermingled with corpuscles , obviously the ibmucous connective tissue of the placental zone .
J A toughish membrane , continuous on each side with the mucosa of the on-placental area of the uterus , could without difficulty be peeled off the 'iberine surface of the placenta as a well-defined layer .
When examined i iicroscopically , the surface of this membrane which lay next the uterus as seen to resemble in structure the flocculi projecting from it ; whilst le part next the placenta was much more abundantly cellular , and r ained readily with carmine .
The surface which had been in apposition I ith the placenta was irregularly undulating , and divided into numerous l iallow crypt-like recesses , separated from each other by raised folds of o membrane .
These crypts were lined by a layer of cells , the nuclei ?
f which were very distinct .
I regard this membrane as the serotina , or modified uterine mucosa of the placental zone ; whilst the crypts , with aeir epithelial lining , are the closed ends of the deep pits in which 'he villi of the chorion are lodged .
u The substance of the placenta was then examined , with the object of determining not only the form of the foetal villi , but if prolongations of he maternal mucosa passed into the placenta between the villi .
In ver- ; ical sections the villi appeared as if simple filamentous structures , xtending from the chorion to the crypt-like recesses in the serotina ; but when portions of the placenta were teased out with needles , so that the dlli were not injured , although an occasional simple villus was seen , the najority were broad , sinuous , leaf-like villi , with bud-like offshoots at he free border , such as I have described and figured in the domestic ?
at ( Trans. Hoy .
Soc. Edinburgh , 1875 ) .
In horizontal sections through the placenta the sinuous outline of the villi presented so close a resemblance to the cat , that it was difficult in this particular to distinguish Hyrax from Felis .
Under a magnifying-power of 320 diameters , a layer of flattened cells , the nuclei of which were almost circular and bright with transmitted light , was seen at the surface of the villus .
Intermingled with the foetal villi were laminar prolongations of the maternal mucosa , which invested and closely followed the sinuosities of the villi , similar to the ' arrangement I have described and figured in the domestic cat* .
This intraplacental maternal tissue was present not only in those sections * Memoir " On the Placentation of the Seals , " already cited , 1875 , p. 293 , pi .
xxi , flg .
14 .
154 Mr. W. Turner on the Placentation 0/ Hyrax .
[ Dec ; 16 , in which the serotina was in situ , but in others from which this membrane had been peeled off .
The maternal laminae were covered by a layer of cells , obviously continuous with the cellular lining of the crypt-like recesses on the free surface of the serotina , and the laminae themselves were prolongations into the placenta of the folds of the mucosa which separated the crypts from each other .
As the placenta of Hyrax , both in the form of its villi and in the mode in which they are interlocked between the intraplacental maternal laminae , so closely resembles that of the domestic cat , and as these laminae remain situ after the membrane , which I have named the serotina , is peeled off the placenta , there can be no doubt that they are shed at the time of separation of the placenta .
Hence Hyrax , in its placentation , is one of the Deciduata .
" Whether the membrane just referred to is also shed during parturition is more difficult to say .
The fact that it peels off the uterus along with the placenta , when they are artificially separated , is not of itself sufficient evidence .
In the cat the whole thickness of the mucosa in the placental zone peels off along with the placenta when that organ is artificially separated ; whilst in normal parturition the deeper part of the connective tissue of the mucosa , with the remains of the blood-vessels and tubular glands , persists as a covering for the muscular coat , and forms a non-deciduous serotina .
It may be that in Hyrax , as in the cat , only the superficial part of this membrane is shed with the placenta , whilst the rest remains on the zone of the uterus ; but this can only be determined by the examination of a uterus immediately after parturition .
The non-placental area of the mucosa contained tubular glands , which , relatively to the extent of the membrane , were not nearly so numerous as in the gravid mucosa of animals having a diffused or polycotyledonary placenta .
The glands were long , and the gland-stem was unbranched and almost straight ; the closed end was dilated , bent on itself , and seemed to give off a short branch .
The secreting epithelium did not fill up the tube , but left a central lumen .
When the chorion was cut through on either side of the placental zone , the sac of the allantois was opened into , and seen to extend up to the poles of the chorion .
At and close to the margin of the placenta the allantois was reflected on to the outer surface of the amnion , to which it obviously gave a complete investment , so that the bag of the amnion was suspended in the sac of the allantois by the bands of the latter membrane reflected on to its outer surface .
The amnion was large relatively to the sac of the allantois .
The umbilical cord was short and somewhat flattened .
Numerous flattened plates , the largest of which were about inch in diameter , projected from the inner surface of the amnion .
They were situated not only in the neighbourhood of the umbilical cord , but scattered as far as the poles .
Some were sessile , others slightly pedunculated ; * 875 .
] Presents .
155 ad as they were all covered by the epithelial lining of the amnion , they fere apparently developed between it and the layer of allantois which rt overed its outer surface .
The plates were obviously composed of cells the nuclei of which were distinct ; but the toughness of the tissue , due robably to the prolonged action of the spirit in which the specimen had even preserved , rendered it difficult to isolate them .
In position and i tructure these plates apparently corresponded to the amniotic corpuscles ) which I have described in Orca gladiator ( Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinburgh , 11871 ) .
The non-gravid uterine cornu was enlarged and contained two masses one the size of a walnut , the other of a filbert ) connected together by tn intermediate neck .
When examined microscopically they were seen o contain tubular glands and blood-vessels , lying in a richly corpuscu-ated connective tissue .
These masses were evidently the greatly hypertrophied mucosa , which had become thickened in sympathy with the ihanges in the gravid cornu .
There was no extension of the foetal membranes into this cornu , and its cavity seemed as if almost obliterated by the great hypertrophy of the mucous w ; all .
Hyraxagrees , therefore , with Felis , not only in the form and structure of the placenta , but in the presence of a large allantoic sac .
It differs , however , in the condition of the umbilical vesicle , which in Felis persists during utero-gestation , but in Hyrax disappears apparently at an early period .
The Society then adjourned over the Christmas Recess , to Thursday , January 6 , 1876 .
Presents received , December 9 , 1875 .
Transactions .
Calcutta :\#151 ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal , 1874 .
Part 1 .
No. 4 , Part 2 .
No. 4 ; 1875 .
Parti .
No. 1 .
Part 2 .
No. 1 .
8vo . .
Extra Number .
8vo .
Hertford1875 .
Proceedings , 1874 .
No. 10 ; 1875 .
No. 1-6 .
8vo .
The Society .
Newcastle-upon-Tyne:\#151 ; North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers .
Transactions .
Yol .
XXIY .
8vo .
1875 .
The Institute .
Rome:\#151 ; Accademia Pontificia de ' Nuovi Lincei .
Atti .
Anno 28 .
Sess .
4-6 .
4to .
Boma 1875 .
The Academy .
Turin :\#151 ; R. Accademia dell Scienze .
Atti .
Yol .
X. Disp .
1-8 .
8vo .
Torino 1874-75 .
The Academy .
Yokohama :\#151 ; Asiatic Society of Japan .
Transactions .
Yol .
III .
Part 1 .
8vo .
1875 .
The Society .

