170 Croonian Lecture , 1906.\#151 ; On Nerve Endings and on Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
By J. N. Langley , F:R.S .
, Professor of Physiology in the University of Cambridge .
( Received and Read May .
24 , 1906 .
) Amongst the fundamental problems of physiology is the determination of the actual seat of the changes which accompany or are the cause of physiological activity .
The earliest step was the attribution of the more obvious functions of the body to the several organs which compose it .
This has been followed by more or less successful attempts to ascertain the separate function of each tissue of an organ , and of each constituent of a tissue .
And in recent years investigation lias been largely concerned with the endeavour to localise functions long known , and those which from time to time are discovered , in the several parts , and in the several chemical eonstitutents of the ultimate unit , the cell .
I propose to-day to consider what is the actual seat of certain physiological activities in cells , and chiefly in those of muscular and nervous tissues .
About 50 years ago Claude Bernard investigated the action of various poisons on the properties of the nervous and muscular systems .
The main conclusions which he drew are still almost universally accepted .
The most important observations were those on the action of curari .
It had long been known that a muscle contracted when it was stimulated , but it was a question of interminable argument whether it responded to the stimulus in virtue of its own intrinsic properties , or in consequence of the presence of nerve-fibres in its substance .
Bernard discovered that after a small amount of curari had been administered to a frog , the motor nerves of the muscles of the trunk and limbs were no longer capable of causing contraction , but that the muscles contracted in the usual manner , when stimulated directly .
Assuming that the nerve-fibres in the muscles were as incapable of causing contraction as those outside them , it followed that the muscles are excitable in themselves , apart from any nervous impulses , and thus the first piece of fairly satisfactory evidence was obtained that muscle is not only contractile but irritable by other agencies than its nerves .
Bernard* also showed that curari in the amount * Pelouze and Bernard ( ' Comptes Rendus Acad. d. Sci. , ' 1850 , p. 533 ) were the first to point out that stimulation of the nerves had no effect in a frog to which curari had been administered .
Bernard continued the investigation of the action of curari , and gave the Nerve Endings and Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
171 required to paralyse the motor nerve* * did not paralyse either the sensory nerves or the central nervous system , or the trunks of the nerves near the central nervous system .
He concluded that the primary poisoning effect of curari was due to a local action on that part of the nerve which lies in the muscle .
He pointed out also a similar local action on other tissues in the case of other poisons .
Thus strychnine caused convulsions by an action on the central nervous system , but did not appreciably affect the properties of nerve-fibres or of muscles .
And sulpho-cvanide of potassium destroyed the irritability of muscles\#151 ; so that on stimulating them electrically , or pinching them or cutting them , no contraction could be obtained\#151 ; but it had no marked action on either the central nervous system or the nerve-fibres .
Bernard 's experiments thus distinguished a difference of behaviour in the nerve trunks , in the branches of the nerves in the muscle , and in the muscle itself , as well as ( presumably ) in the nerve cells of the central nervous system .
On the discovery of the nerve endings in vertebrate muscle , with their characteristic appearance in each class of animals , the paralysing action of curari on the peripheral branches of the motor nerves was naturally referred to the endings , and thus the nerve endings were taken to be different from the fibres from which they arose by division , and curari was said to paralyse nerve endings .
This view was strengthened by the prevailing opinion that curari after prolonged action or in sufficiently large doses affected the nerve trunks also , for if the nerve endings were specially differentiated parts of the nerve-fibres it would be more reasonable to suppose that they would be specially affected by curari if the nerve-fibres were affected to some extent , however small , than if they were completely unaffected .
According to Bernard , curari acted first on the u terminations5 ?
of the motor nerves , and then , if in sufficient amount , gradually robbed the rest of the nerve of its irritability , beginning at the periphery and spreading towards the centre .
A paralysing action on the nerve trunk was also found by Kolliker .
Kiihnet observed that in frogs recovering from slight curari paralysis the nerve first became effective near its end , and only later near its origin from the spinal cord .
Later , J however , in experiments on the nerves close results in his lectures .
Whilst these lectures were in the press ( ' Lemons sir les Effets des Substances Toxiques et Medicamenteuses , ' Paris , 1857 ) , and before Bernard 's results were generally known out of France , Kolliker published the observations he had made on the action of curari ( cf. i Virchow 's Archiv , ' vol. 10 , p. 3 , 1856 ) .
His results agreed in general with those of Bernard .
* The phrase " paralysis of the nerve " is used in its customary sense to indicate that on stimulation it does not have its usual effect .
t Kuhne , 'Miiiler 's Archiv , ' 1860 , p. 477 .
X Kuhne , 'Ueber d. Wirkung des Pfeilgiftes auf die Nervenstamme/ Heidelberg , 1880 .
p 2 172 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings arid on [ May 24 , to their endings in the muscles , he did not find that curari in large amount had any effect on them , and he was unable to reconcile this with his previous results .
In fact , the question of the action of curari on nerves before they enter muscle is still one for discussion .
The view of the special character of the nerve endings has been further strengthened by histological observations on the changes occurring in the nerve endings under the influence of curari .
Kiihne described the living nerve endings in the muscle of lizards as having more distinct outlines after deep curari poisoning , and still more after slight curari poisoning and prolonged electrical stimulation of the nerves.* Miuraf stated that prolonged ( 18 days ) curari poisoning in the frog caused a dwindling in the size of hypolemmal fibres .
Herzen and OdierJ find that curari causes the hypo-lemmal fibres of the frog to become varicose , and that the axons of the nerve outside the muscle became covered with fine granules , the change decreasing towards the centre .
A variant of the general view was early put forward by Kuhne .
KiihneS noticed that the irritability of the parallel-fibred sartorius muscle of the frog was not the same throughout .
It was least at the ends , where , as he also found , no nerves or nerve endings were present .
It was greatest near the point of entrance of the nerve .
This , of course , might only mean that the nerve was more irritable than the muscle .
But he found that curari , given in amount sufficient to paralyse the motor nerve to the muscle , did not abolish the difference in irritability between the middle and the ends of the muscle .
This he considered could not be due to a difference in the muscle itself , since if he passed a constant current through the nerve supplying the muscle , the positive pole being near the muscle , so that the end of the nerve was thrown into an electrotonus , the irritability of the muscle became the same throughout .
Consequently , he concluded that the terminal portion of the nerve , and possibly the whole nerve ending , was not paralysed by an amount of curari considerably greater than that required to block the passage of nervous impulses .
After a very large dose of curari , Kuhne considered that the whole nerve ending was paralysed , || although he obtained inconstant * * * S * Kuhne , ' Verh .
d. Naturhist.-Med .
Yereins zu Heidelberg , ' N.F. , III , 1882 .
f Miura , ' Virchow 's Archiv , ' vol. 105 , p. 129 , 1886 .
% Herzen and Odier , ' Arch. Intern , d. Physiol. , ' vol. 1 , p. 364 , 1904 .
S Kuhne , 1 Muller 's Archiv , ' 1860 , p. 477 .
|| According to Kuhne , a saturated solution of sugar stimulates nerve but not muscle .
The solution caused contraction only when applied to those parts of the sartorius muscle of the frog which contain nerve-fibres .
This action was abolished by sufficiently deep poisoning with curari .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
results as regards the equal irritability of the different regions of the muscle.* On Kiihne 's view , then , curari readily paralysed a part of the nerve in the muscle a short distance before its ending ; with an increasing dose of curari , the paralysis spread both down and up the nerve-fibres till finally the whole was paralysed ; the proper irritability and contractility of the muscle remaining the same .
Some years later , Pollitzer , f working in Kiihne 's laboratory , confirmed the unequal irritability of different parts of the sartorius muscle , and found that the irritability corresponded with the number of nerve endings described by Mays in the different regions .
He supported Kiihne 's view that the primary action of curari was not on the actual terminations of the nerves , and suggested that it might be on the cement substance of the last node , and not directly on either nerve ending or axis cylinder .
The difficulties in understanding the action of curari brought out by the work of Kiihne and Pollitzer have had but little influence either on opinion or on the course of investigation , and I am uncertain whether Kiihne himself adhered to his original view .
Almost universally the simple and more intelligible theory has been taken that the axis cylinder of a nerve-fibre , in branching to make the nerve ending , alters its properties and is more susceptible to the action of various poisons .
A recognition of a difference in the properties of nerve endings and nerve-fibres has coloured the interpretation of physiological facts more and more as further facts have become known .
Thus when the phenomena of fatigue were investigated , the nerve endings came to be considered as more liable to fatigue than the muscle , and as being different from nerve-fibres in which fatigue was produced with difficulty or not at all .
The theory has also been applied to the connection of nerve-fibres with unstriated muscle , with gland cells , and more recently to the connection of nerve cells with one another .
In all these cases , though to a varying degree , the nerve endings are commonly held to be especially affected by numerous poisons and as especially liable to fatigue .
Lastly , in some cases the phenomena observed during the degeneration of a nerve have been attributed to the vitality of the nerve ending being greater than that of the axis cylinder of the fibre in the nerve trunk .
* Sachs ( 'Reichert and Du Bois Reymond 's Archiv , ' 1874 , p. 51 ) stated that , after curari in sufficiently large amount , the irritability of all parts of the muscle became the same .
Pollitzer ( op .
cit.infra ) found that maximal doses of curari lowered the irritability of all paits of the muscle , but that the curve of irritability of the several parts was like that of the normal muscle .
+ Pollitzer , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 7 , p. 274 , 1886 .
174 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , Now it cannot be denied that the great majority of the known facts receive a satisfactory explanation on this theory .
Moreover , certain facts\#151 ; those relating to the action of poisons on particular systems of nerves\#151 ; are not easily explained on any ' other .
Nevertheless , some recent observations go far to show that the theory is untenable .
I will consider first the observations on motor nerve endings in striated muscle , since they are at present the most complete , and then briefly review those which concern other nerve endings .
Nerve Endings in Striated Muscle .
Nicotine is one of the many poisons which , in the usual acceptation of the phrase , paralyses motor nerve endings in vertebrates .
In some birds it has an additional action , * not so far observed in mammals .
It causes certain muscles to pass into a state of tonic rigidity , and to remain in this state for many minutes .
The contraction is not due to stimuli sent out by the central nervous system , for it occurs when all the nerves supplying the muscles are severed .
If about 1 milligramme of nicotine , or any larger quantity , is injected into a vein of an anaesthetised fowl , the hind limbs , previously lax , gradually become stiff and extended figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , and they may remain so for a quarter to half an hour , or even longer .
When a graphic record of the contraction of a single muscle , such as the gastrocnemius , is made , the shortening of the muscle is seen to take place slowly and steadily to a maximum , which is approximately maintained for several minutes ; this is followed by a gradual and much slower relaxation .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Fowl , anaesthetised with morphia and A.C.E. mixture , balanced on its thorax in a V-shaped piece of wood .
The neck and legs hang down and are flaccid , the eyes are shut .
* Langley , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 33 , p. 380 , 1905 .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; The same fowl as in fig. 1 .
Two minutes after injection of 5 milligrammes of nicotine into the jugular vein .
The injection caused a gradual and fairly quick extension of the legs , retraction and twisting of the neck , and opening of the eyes .
In order to show the eyes , the beak was held when taking the photograph .
The fowl was unfastened throughout , and the injection caused no general movement nor any decrease of the anaesthesia .
Fig. 3.-\#151 ; The same fowl half an hour after the injection of 5 milligrammes of nicotine .
In the interval the fowl had been lifted up to observe the degree of contraction of the muscles , so that the position is probably not exactly the same as in the previous photograph .
Most of the muscles still have some tone , more than they have in anaesthesia without nicotine ; but the eye muscles are apparently in the normal anaesthetic state , for the eye is closed .
The eye began to close in about a quarter of an hour .
The rate of shortening varies with the amount of nicotine .
After intravenous injection of 1 to 5 milligrammes the approximate maximum is not attained for 20 to 30 seconds ; and even with very large amounts the rate is never comparable with that of the rapid twitch which is obtained by 176 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , stimulating the nerve with the make or break of a galvanic current , or with a single induction shock .
The contraction , in fact , is of a peculiar kind , not reproducible apparently by electrical stimulation of the nerve .
As I have already said , it is well known that nicotine has a similar effect to curari in so far as it prevents stimulation of a motor nerve from having any effect upon the muscle .
In the fowl the paralysis is produced by 10 to 15 milligrammes of nicotine .
The stimulating effect of nicotine occurs whether the amount given is sufficient to paralyse the motor nerves or no ; amounts from about 05 milligramme upwards all cause contraction .
Moreover , after the nervous effect has been abolished by 10 to 15 milligrammes , a subsequent dose will still cause muscular contraction , and by increasing the amount of successive doses contraction can be obtained a considerable number of times in succession , though the effect diminishes and at length ceases .
This in itself is a curious fact , * for though it is extremely common for a drug to stimulate first and then paralyse , the recognised action of such drugs is to cease to stimulate after the paralysis has been produced .
The hypothesis which first suggests itself to account for this fact is that nicotine acts in different wTays upon two different parts of the neuromuscular mechanism , paralysing the nerve endings on the one hand , and stimulating the muscle on the other .
It is clear that this view would be confirmed if curari had no effect upon the contraction caused by nicotine , for , as we have seen , curari is held to have an action on nerve endings but not upon muscle .
But experiment shows that curari has a marked antagonising action on the contraction produced by nicotine ; a sufficient dose of curari annuls the contraction produced by a small amount of nicotine and diminishes that caused by a large amount .
The two poisons as regards muscular contraction are mutually antagonistic , though nicotine is the more powerful .
This point is of fundamental importance , and I give the graphic records taken from one experiment in illustration of it .
Fig. 4 shows the contraction caused in a gastrocnemius muscle of the fowlf by 4 milligrammes of nicotine .
Whilst the contraction was at its height , 50 milligrammes of curari were given .
This it will be seen abolished or nearly abolished the contraction .
* Some other alkaloids have a similar action ; thus pilocarpin causes secretion , and slows the heart after it has paralysed the post-ganglionic nerves .
t The fowl was anaesthetised by morphia and A.C.E. mixture .
The sciatic nerve was cut .
The lever attached to the gastrocnemius tendon was weighted with 40 grammes .
For other details of method , cf. 1 journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 33 , pp. 381 , 382 , 1905 .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances Cells .
Fig. 4._Abolition by cttrari of the contraction in the gastrocnemius muscle of the fow caused by nicotine .
The lowest line marks intervals of 10 seconds .
The amount of curari given is two to three times the amount required to prevent the sciatic causing contraction of the muscle , nevertheless , the injection of 50 milligrammes of nicotine about three and a half minutes later caused the strong contraction shown in fig. 5 , and this contraction in turn was reduced nearly to zero by a further injection of 50 milligrammes of curari* ( fig. 5 ) .
A second injection of 50 milligrammes of nicotine Fig. 5.\#151 ; Continuation of tracing given in fig. 4 .
Mutual antagonism of nicotine and curari .
The 5 c.c. of salt solution was injected to show that the injection itself did not cause relaxation .
Time marked in 10 second intervals .
10 minutes later was almost without effect , the substance stimulated by nicotine being temporarily paralysed , but the muscle readily contracted on direct electrical stimulation .
Experiment , then , with curari does not confirm the obvious view as to the * Large amounts of curari are apt to wreaken or stop the heart , but control experiments show that the nicotine contraction continues unaltered for several minutes after complete cessation of the heart beat , and that the curari relaxation occurs when the blood pressure is unaffected by the injection .
178 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , mode of action of nicotine given above .
It shows that if nicotine has an action on muscle , so also has curari .
But some other form of experiment is required to decide whether nicotine does , in fact , act upon the muscle direct .
It is clear that what is required is to examine the behaviour of the muscle when no nerve endings are present .
A means to this end is to cut the nerve and allow it time to degenerate .
It is known that after section , nerve-fibres degenerate up to their point of entry into the muscle fibres and it has been almost universally assumed that the nerve endings , which are but the terminal branches of the nerve , degenerate also .
It is , however , as I have already said , not uncommonly believed that the nerve endings degenerate more slowly than the nerve-fibres , and some doubt has been expressed as to whether they degenerate at all .
This question must then first be examined .
The degeneration of the nerve endings after section of the nerve-fibres has been taken so much as a matter of course , that there are , so far as I know , two papers only published on the subject .
The earlier investigations were made by Sokolow , * on the gastrocnemius muscle of the frog .
He examined the muscle for nerve endings by the gold chloride method , 14 , 28 , 32 and 44 days after section of the sciatic nerve .
Fourteen days after section of the sciatic nerve , no change was observable in the nerve endings .
In the other three cases , good staining of the muscle was apparently only obtained in that taken 32 days after section of the nerve , but it may perhaps be assumed that the changes described were observed , though less satisfactorily , in the other two .
According to Sokolow , the different nerve endings undergo change at very different rates , so that in all cases some normal nerve endings remained .
Those which were altered , but still visible , showed fine dark stained granules in a basis staining less than normal .
The alteration was sometimes only at the ends of the hypolemmal fibres , and different hypolemmal fibres of the same ending showed different degrees of change .
In other cases , some or all of the hypolemmal fibres had completely disappeared .
In the latter type , the nerve-fibre with fragmented myelin was traced up to the muscle and Sokolow states that the absence of the nerve ending was not due to imperfect staining .
In some instances he describes the spaces left by the nerve endings as being filled with a fine deposit of gold .
Although these observations leave something to be desired , they do , I think , show that the nerve ending undergoes first granular degeneration and * Sokolow , 'Archives de Physiol. , ' 1874 , p. 300 .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in .
then absorption .
A point which raises some doubt in my mind is a brief statement by Sokolow that in all cases contraction was still obtained by stimulating the nerve .
It seems unlikely that after nerve section some of the nerve-fibres and nerve endings should be normal , whilst others had so far degenerated that the nerve endings had completely disappeared , or that the conductivity of the nerve should last as long as 44 days .
The second published work on this subject is by Huber* His observations were made on the interosseus muscles of the rabbit , the posterior tibial nerves being crushed to interrupt continuity .
The nerve endings were stained with methylene blue .
On the second day after the nerve crushing , some of the hypolemmal fibres showed round or oval thickenings staining deeply with methylene blue , these rapidly increased in number , and when the great majority were in this state , stimulation of the nerve had no longer an effect .
At a later stage , up to six days , no staining of the nerve endings was obtained , but at times there was a faint staining of the sole .
Huber , however , lays no great stress on this result , since the staining in the normal condition was uncertain .
At a still later stage ( about 30 to 178 days ) , i.e. } when time was allowed for regeneration , nerve endings were again obtained .
The only gap in these observations is that the intermediate forms between the first stage of granular degeneration and absorption are not described .
They show definitely that in mammals the nerve ending alters rapidly on nerve section , losing its normal staining power with methylene blue , and it may fairly be inferred that the nerve ending , like the axis cylinder , degenerates .
In order to form an independent opinion on the question , I have made some observations on the nerve endings of the frog by the methylene blue method .
In the sartorius muscle of the frog a considerable number of nerve endings can with certainty be shown by methylene blue ; I have not had one failure in more than a hundred trials .
I have cut on one side , under ansesthetics , the branch of the sciatic ( n. descendens communis ) which supplies the sartorius muscle , and a variable time after the section , killed the frog , taken the sartorius muscle of the cut and uncut side and treated them in the same way in methylene blue .
I find that about three weeks after section of the nerve , the nerve endings show deep stained small granules in a faintly stained basis , that later the granules became smaller and fewer , and the basis barely visible .
About six weeks after section , no trace of nerve endings is to be seen .
A semi-diagrammatic sketch of one of the granular nerve endings I give in fig. 6 .
* Huber , ' Amer .
Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 3 , p. 339 , 1900 .
180 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , Fig. 6.\#151 ; Nerve ending in sartorius muscle of frog three weeks after nerve section .
Methylene blue stain .
The tint of the several parts of the nerve ending in the figure represents roughly the degree of stain , but the tint of the hypo-lemmal fibres , and , to a less degree , that of the nuclei , is too deep .
Lastly , Tuckett has investigated the nerve endings in the flexor profundus muscle of the pigeon , by the methylene blue method .
He finds that the hypolemmal fibres show granular degeneration in two days or less , and that after three days they disappear .
The details of his work will l\#187 ; e published shortly .
As the results of these various observations , we may then , I think , safely conclude that after section of a nerve , the nerve endings undergo first granular degeneration and then absorption .
And , if this be granted , it is clear that we can determine whether nicotine does or does not act on muscle by administering it a sufficient time after a motor nerve has been cut .
I have examined* the reaction of the gastrocnemius muscle of the fowl , 6 , 8 , 27 , 38 , and 40 days after section of the external peroneal nerve which innervates it .
In all cases a contraction was obtained essentially similar to the normal nicotine contraction , the only difference apparently observed being an increased response to small doses of the poison , indicating an increased excitability after denervation , such as has been described in some cases of unstriated muscle after nerve section .
Since the contraction is certainly not decreased , and may be increased , by degeneration of the nerve endings , the nicotine contraction must be produced by an action on the muscle and not on the nerve endings .
Passing now to the effect of curari .
On the fowl 's gastrocnemius muscle , after degeneration of the nerves , curari is still capable of reducing the nicotine contraction .
The only difference is that it is\#151 ; so far as the experiments go\#151 ; a less powerful antagonist ; a fact probably related to the apparent increased excitability to nicotine already mentioned .
Curari , then , must also have an action on the muscle substance .
* Op. cit. supra .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
The mutual antagonism of nicotine and curari on muscle* can only satisfactorily be explained by supposing that both combine with the same radicle of the muscle , so that nicotine-muscle compounds and curari-muscle compounds are formed .
Which compound is formed depends upon the mass of each poison present and the relative chemical affinities for the muscle radicle .
Since the formation of the nicotine-compound causes contraction , and that of the eurari-compound does not , it is obvious that the chemical re-arrangements set up in the muscle molecule by the combination of one of its radicles are different in the two cases .
In fact , it seems probable that a special radicle is necessary for the combination with a number of chemical bodies , and that the compound formed leads to further change depending upon the nature of the compound .
Having then arrived at the conclusion that both nicotine and curari combine with some substance in the muscle , we have to consider whether there is any reason to suppose that they combine with some substance in the nerve ending also .
The only action that can be attributed to them is the paralysing action .
There is , unfortunately , no direct and conclusive evidence either one way or the other .
But as the ascertained action of the poisons on muscle is sufficient to explain their paralysing action , it is unnecessary to resort to the assumption of an additional effect on nerve endings .
It is a common action of drugs first to stimulate and then to paralyse , so that there is plenty of analogy for the view that nicotine , after stimulating , paralyses the constituent of the muscle on which it acts .
Curari , as we have seen , decreases the irritability of the muscle to the nicotine stimulus , and it is reasonable to suppose that it decreases also the , irritability of the muscle to stimuli arriving by the nerves .
I conclude , then , in terms of the theory given above , that the compounds which the poisons form with the muscle are less irritable and conductive than the normal muscle substance .
The continuation of the stimulating effect of nicotine after nervous impulses * Pal ( ' Centralb .
f. Physiol. , ' 1900 , p. 255 ) found that curari nerve-paralysis could be more or less completely abolished by physostigmine .
The matter was further worked out by Rothberger ( 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' vol. 137 , p. 117 , 1901 ) , who also showed { ibid. , vol. 92 , p. 398 , 1902 ) that several substances , and amongst them nicotine , can , in proper conditions^ partly restore irritability to motor nerves paralysed by curari .
In writing my earlier account { op .
cit. supra)I was unaware of Rothberger 's observations .
The physiological antagonism in this case is very incomplete , a fact which is in harmony with the theory of antagonism of poisons I gave some years ago ( 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 1 , p. 367 , 1878 ) .
182 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , is rendered ineffective , we may explain on the supposition that the nicotine muscle compound ceases to be irritable or conductive to nervous stimuli , before the maximal combination with nicotine has taken place .
The degree of combination is essentially a question of the relative chemical affinities of the radicle of the muscle substance with other radicles and with nicotine .
It is true that , as mentioned earlier ( p. 172 ) , microscopic changes have been described in nerve endings as the result of giving curari , but these do not necessarily show a special action on the nerve ending .
In the instance described by Kiihne , the increase in distinctness in the nerve endings of the lizard might equally well be due to an action on the " sole " or muscular protoplasmic mass below the nerve ending .
And with regard to the observations of Herzen and Odier it is to be noted that the granular changes found in the nerve endings after curari were also found in the axis cylinders a variable distance up the trunk of the nerve , and it is certain that the abolition of nerve effect , produced by small and by moderate amounts of curari , is independent of any changes in the trunk of the nerve .
Further , there is no certain histological difference between the nerve-fibres before and after branching into nerve endings ; although some differences have been described , the general evidence is that the nerve endings are simply branches of the axis .
The probability then , I take it , is that none of the phenomena of nerve and muscle stimulation are due to a chemical difference between the axis cylinder and the nerve endings , and in that case it follows not only that the poisoning phenomena of a large number of drugs are due to changes brought about directly in some constituent of the muscle , but also that the peripheral fatigue usually attributed to changes in the nerve endings is really due to fatigue of a special constituent of the muscle .
Since neither curari nor nicotine , even in large doses , prevents direct stimulation of muscle from causing contraction , it is obvious that the muscle substance which combines with nicotine or curari is not identical with the substance which contracts .
It is convenient to have a term for the specially excitable constituent , and I have called it the receptive substance .
It receives the stimulus and , by transmitting it , causes contraction .
Beyond this we cannot go at present with any certainty .
I may indicate briefly one or two possibilities .
It is well known that Bottazzi* has given reasons for the theory that sarcoplasm is contractile , but that it contracts more slowly than the fibrillar material .
We might then refer the nicotine contraction to the sarcoplasm , and the slowness of the contraction would imply that the fibrillce are not * Bottazzi , ' Journ. of Physiol.,5 vol. 21 , p. 1 , 1897 .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
stimulated at all by nicotine .
Since the contraction caused by a single electrical stimulation of the nerve is a quick contraction , it would naturally follow that it is due solely to the fibrillse .
Thus one or other of the two contractile substances would come into action alone .
But if the stimulating action of nicotine is solely in the sarcoplasm , we should naturally conclude , in accordance with the argument given above , that its paralysing action is also solely on the sarcoplasm .
In this case we should have to conclude that the sarcoplasm normally transmits the stimulus caused by a single electrical stimulation of the nerve without itself contracting , but does not transmit the stimulus caused by nicotine though it does itself contract .
This conclusion presents great though perhaps not insuperable difficulties .
If , in consequence of these difficulties , we take the view that the nicotine causes contraction of the fibrillse and not of the sarcoplasm , there are two possibilities : the receptive substance may be part of the sarcoplasm , or it may be a radicle of the contractile molecule .
It might be urged in favour of the former view that according to Kiihne the nerve ending is in some cases completely separated from the fibrillse by sarcoplasm .
On the other hand , even if a thin layer of sarcoplasm does intervene between nerve and muscle , it does not necessarily follow that it takes any essential part in the passage of the stimulus .
On the latter view it is clear that the contractile molecule must either have at least one receptive radicle in addition to that affected by nicotine and curari , or it must be capable of direct stimulation .
The hypothesis , however , demands that the stimuli passing by the nerve cannot affect the contractile molecule except by the radicle which combines with nicotine and curari .
And this seems in its turn to require that the nervous impulse should not pass from nerve to muscle by an electric discharge , but by the secretion of a special substance at the end of the nerve , a theory suggested in the first instance by du Bois Reymond .
Lastly it is to be noted that whether the receptive substance is part of the sarcoplasm or part of the fibrillse , it remains to determine whether the receptive substance is localised in the immediate neighbourhood of the nerve ending or exists throughout the length of the muscle fibre .
The observations of Ktihne and Pollitzer ( quoted above ) on the different irritability of the nerve-containing and nerve-free parts of the muscle afford some evidence for , at any rate , unequal distribution , but the main question can , I think , only be settled by experiments on the effect of local application of nicotine such as I have to mention presently .
In the preceding statement , the view that curari and a number of other poisons act on muscle has been placed in sharp antagonism with the view 184 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Elidings and on [ May 24 , that they act on nerve endings .
But the possibility of an intermediate view must be mentioned .
There are some observers who consider that nerve and muscle are continuous , and it is conceivable that a certain region of the junction should belong to both nerve and muscle in the sense that either could keep it alive .
The special properties attributed to the nerve ending might then be attributed to the junctional region , half muscle and half nerve .
With regard to this , it will be noted that the junctional region , if it exists , must be in the muscle , since we have good reason to believe that all the visible nerve ending degenerates on section of the nerve .
In the simplest case , that of the nerve endings of amphibia , the substance which has been described as continuous with the endings is clearly the sarcoplasm of the muscle , which stretches throughout the muscle fibre , and no substance of distinct histological characters which could be regarded as a junctional substance is shown by the microscope .
In the end plate form of nerve ending there is it is true the specially modified sarcoplasm which forms the " sole .
" But , as was shown by Kiihne , some of the hypolemmal fibres commonly run past the limits of the sole .
But the theory of continuity seems to me to have the balance of evidence decidedly against it .
As Kiilme* pointed out in a previous Croonian Lecture , the properly stained hypolemmal fibres terminate usually in rounded ends sharply marked off from the muscle substance , and every method which brings out the nerve endings clearly , brings out this characteristic .
The outline of a hypolemmal fibre is as distinct at its end as it is in its pre-terminal course .
In the case of typical nerve endings , it is only when they are viewed in all the indistinctness of the fresh specimen , or are made granular by treatment , that any appearance of continuity is suggested .
Kuhne has also pointed out that excitation of the muscle substance does not cause a stimulus to pass back through the nerve ending , and this might reasonably be expected to occur if there were continuity .
The chief observations in favour of continuity are those on the development of the nerves in the embryo.f As I have said elsewhere , if it were shown that continuity exists in the early embryonic state , it would not follow that it continues to exist in later stages .
With differentiation of function , histological separation might well take place . !
* Kuhne , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , p. 427 , 1888 .
t For a critical account of these observations , cf. Kolliker , 'Zeitschr .
f. wissensch .
Zool. , ' vol. 82 , 1905 .
X Since the above was written , a paper has been published by Pfliiger ( ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' vol. 112 , p. 1 , 1906 ) , in which he upholds the theory of continuity .
It is a measure of the need for further investigation that the well-known observations on the 1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances Cells .
The preceding argument has been based chiefly on the .
fact that nicotine excites certain muscles in the fowl , as well as abolishes , when given in sufficient amount , the effect of the nerves upon them .
Now , as mentioned already , nicotine abolishes motor nerve action in all vertebrates investigated .
It would be very remarkable if the stimulating action occurred only in birds .
I have not made any systematic investigation of the question , but , in thinking about it , I remembered that v. Anrep* had described catalepsy of the fore limbs of the frog as being caused by nicotine after destruction of the spinal cord and that the phenomenon had been confirmed by Dickinson and myselff and additional details given .
The tonic contraction produced in the muscles of the fore limb of the frogj is clearly similar to , though not identical with , that produced in the gastrocnemius and other muscles of the fowl .
Its duration , however , may be much greater .
The effect is to cause the fore legs to be drawn over the sternum in the manner described by early observers , who , however , did not definitely attribute it to peripheral stimulation .
An illustration of the effect of nicotine on the fore limbs is given in fig. 7 .
The brain and spinal cord of a frog were destroyed ; in this state the muscles are , of course , flaccid , and the limbs if raised and let go .
at once fall .
The frog was placed on its back with the fore limbs by the side of the body .
Then a little 1 per cent , nicotine was injected into the abdominal cavity ; this , caused the assumption of the position shown in fig. 7 .
Fig. 7 .
Frog .
Killed by destroying the whole of the central nervous system .
Contraction of the muscles of the fore limbs caused by nicotine .
If a graphic record of the movement of the limb is taken , it is seen that the tissues of vertebrates which he quotes seem to me , as to many others , without exception inconclusive .
Of the tissues of invertebrates I have but slight experience .
* v. Anrep , 'Arch .
f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. , ' 1879 , Supp. , pp. 167 , 209 .
t Langley and Dickinson , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 11 , p. 265 , 1890 . ?
Most of my experiments were made during the breeding season , when it is possible that the tendency to tonic contraction is greater .
VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; B. q 186 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , maximum flexion may not be attained for several minutes .
Such a record is given in fig. 8 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Frog .
Brain and spinal cord destroyed .
A thread was tied to the manus and connected with an unweighted lever , so that flexion of the arm caused a rise of the lever , * 1 c.c. 1 per cent , nicotine injected into the abdominal cavity at the time shown by the signal .
Time marked in 10 seconds .
The tonic contraction is not confined to the muscles of the fore limb .
If dilute nicotine ( 005 per cent. ) is injected into the bulbus arteriosus , it is seen that all the muscles of the body , except those of the thigh and lower leg , become tonically contracted .
The duration , strength , and other features of the contraction vary in different muscles , and in some instances it is accompanied by fibrillar twitching .
In the thigh and lower leg muscles there is , so far as can he seen with the eye , twitching only , if the nicotine is sufficiently dilute .
Moreover , if instead of injecting nicotine it is applied locally to the muscles ( 0-05 per cent , solution and upwards ) local contraction is produced ; thus the numerous extensors and flexors of the toes of the fore and hind limb can be made to contract separately .
It may be noted , too , that the rate of contraction of the abdominal muscles is considerably quicker than that of the flexors of the arm .
Different muscles , then , show nearly all the possible variations .
An interesting point is that on applying nicotine to a portion of a muscle the tonic contraction occurs in this portion only and does not spread to the rest of the muscle .
When stronger solutions of nicotine ( 0'5 to 1 per cent. ) are used , tonic contraction also takes place in the thigh muscles .
On application to a portion of a muscle , a local wheal , like the ideo-muscular contraction , is formed at the place of application .
If the sartorius muscle is cut out and * It will be noticed that the flexion takes place in a series of small jerks ; the cause of this I have not yet investigated .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
excess of fluid removed , local contraction at the ends of the muscle where no nerves are present is obtained by local application of 1 per cent , nicotine , the contraction , however , is less strong than that produced by 1 per cent , nicotine to the part of the muscle which does contain nerves .
If this contraction is a genuine nicotine contraction like that produced in other muscles by injection into the circulation of small amounts of nicotine , it shows that the nicotine-receptive substance is not confined to the nerve endings .
But further experiments are required before it can be said that these similar contractions are identical * I have not had time to make more than a few experiments on the effect of curari on the nicotine contraction .
So far it results that nicotine will still cause contraction after the nerves have been paralysed by curari , but that a much larger amount of nicotine is required .
Whilst there is a mutual antagonism between the two poisons , curari is a much more potent antagonist of nicotine than it is in the fowl .
Nicotine has a similar action on the muscles of the toad , and there is a similar mutual antagonism between the action of nicotine and curari on the muscles .
In the toad the contraction of the flexors and extensors of the arm is equal or nearly equal , so that there is little or no movement.f But the cataleptic condition is usually much more marked than in the frog , and affects the leg as well as the arm , though to a less extent .
The fore limbs can be moved about almost as if made of lead , and stay with but slight return movement in any position in which they are placed consistent with the arrangement of the joints and ligaments .
In fig. 9 I give a photograph Fig. 9 .
of a toad in which the brain and spinal cord had been destroyed , and 1 per cent , nicotine then injected into the abdominal cavity .
The limbs soon became cataleptic , and the photograph is taken of one of the positions in * Nicotine is strongly alkaline , and I have not yet tried the effect of alkalies .
Strong curarisation does not abolish the action of 1 per cent , nicotine ; but this may be due to the nicotine being in sufficient amount to overcome a curari effect .
t I have not tried the effect of nicotine on the male toad during the breeding season .
Q 2 188 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , which the limbs were placed .
It is noteworthy that this cataleptic condition is abolished by a sufficient dose of curari .
Nerve Endings in Nerve Cells .
Evidence of a similar nature to that which I have given for the relation of motor nerves to striated muscle exists also for the relation of the nerve-fibres which run from the spinal cord ( pre-ganglionic fibres ) to end in connection with sympathetic nerve cells .
The action of nicotine on sympathetic nerve cells* is very similar to that which it has on the gastrocnemius muscle of the fowl .
It stimulates nearly all the sympathetic nerve cells of the body , and in larger dose , varying in different cases , it abolishes the effect of stimulating the pre-ganglionic nerves , i.e. , it paralyses the nerve-fibres .
Curari in large amounts paralyses the pre-ganglionic fibres , the amount required varying with different classes of sympathetic fibres ; when it does this it prevents a normally effective amount of nicotine from causing any stimulation .
Now nicotine has as strong a stimulating effect on the sympathetic ganglia after degeneration of the pre-ganglionic fibres as it has normally .
There is no suggestion of the existence of any structure in connection with the nerve endings which could keep them intact after section of the nerves from which they arise , and I conclude that they degenerate after nerve section .
Ramon y Cajal , Dogiel , Huber , and others , who have used either Golgi 's method or Ehrlich 's methylene blue method for staining nerve endings , find that the nerve-fibres running to a sympathetic ganglion are not continuous with the nerve cells , but end free in close contact with them .
I have obtained similar results by the methylene blue method .
Anderson ( ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 28 , p. 499 , 1902 ) gives one piece of experimental evidence for continuity .
He finds that in very young animals delay of development of myelin in the cervical sympathetic nerve-fibres occurs not only on section of the nerve itself , but also on section of the post-ganglionic fibres of the superior cervical ganglion .
The latter fact , he considers , shows continuity through the nerve cells of pre-and post-ganglionic fibres .
It is certain , however , that developing nerve-fibres are much more influenced by injuries than the fully formed ones ; and it is possible that the atrophy of the nerve cells caused by cutting the post-ganglionic fibres in very young animals injures the nerve endings in close contact with them , and in this case the section of the post-ganglionic fibres is practically equivalent to section of the pre-ganglionic fibres .
Some evidence against continuity is given by the fact that nicotine applied to a ganglion causes no axon reflex ; i.e. , the stimulus set up in the nerve cells does not pass back to the nerve-fibres .
How much weight is to be attached to this depends upon the nature of the nervous impulse about which at present there is doubt .
But the fact is , I * Cf .
Langley , 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 27 , p. 224 , 1901 .
Special Excitable Substances in Cells . .
1906 .
] think , fairly conclusive against the continuity theory put forward by Bethe ; * for if conducting neuro-fibrils traversed the nerve cell , stimulation of the neuro-fibrils in the cell either directly or indirectly must lead to nervous impulses being conducted in both directions .
And that the pre-ganglionic fibres can conduct in both directions is shown by the axon reflex produced on electrical stimulation of the nerves .
Nicotine , then , stimulates the nerve cells .
Since curari in sufficient amount prevents this action , curari also must act upon nerve cells , and we may infer , as in the case of striated muscle , that neither act upon the nerve endings .
It may be noted that there is histological confirmation of the direct action of nicotine on nerve cells , for , according to Cosmettatosf it produces chromatolysis of the cells of the superior cervical ganglia of the rabbit , a change which Evej showed is not produced by protracted stimulation of the cervical sympathetic .
One piece of evidence is lacking in the case of nerve cells , viz. , that they retain their fundamental properties after nicotine or curari poisoning in the way striated muscle does .
The nerve cells cannot be stimulated apart from the nerve-fibres these give off* , so that it is only by analogy that I conclude that the substance affected by the poisons is a special receptive substance and not the fundamental substance of the cell .
The experiments on sympathetic ganglia give , I think , good ground for believing that in the central nervous system also , both the specific effect of nicotine , strychnine , and other poisons , and the phenomena of fatigue must be attributed to an action on nerve cells ( either root cells or short fibred commissural cells ) and not to an action on nerve endings .
They support the view that the special functions of the central nervous system are carried on in vertebrates by the nerve cells ( including their dendrons ) , and not by a neuro-fibrillar network outside the nerve cells .
Nerve Endings in Unstriated Muscle and Glands .
The nerves under this heading are post-ganglionic fibres arising from the sympathetic and allied ganglia .
The evidence centres round the action of adrenalin .
Adrenalin was discovered comparatively recently , S and it does not stand on the same footing as curari and nicotine , for from the first it has been a matter of discussion whether it acts on nerve endings or on muscle .
Since it has long been * * * S * Bethe , ' Allg .
Anat .
u. Physiol , d. Nervensystems ' ( Leipzig ) , 1903 .
t Cosmettatos , 'Archives d'Ophthalmologie , ' 1904 .
t Eve , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 20 , p. 334 , 1896 .
S Oliver and Schafer , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , p. 230 , 1895 .
190 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , recognised that poisons act upon cells apart from nerve endings , the discussion on the action of adrenalin did not for a time raise the general questions we are considering here .
Taking the facts so far as they are now ascertained , * it may be regarded as certain that the numerous effects produced by adrenalin are no whit impaired , and probably , indeed , are increased by degeneration of the sympathetic nerves which supply the structures on which it acts .
On the assumption that the degeneration of the nerve endings is accompanied by degeneration of the nerve-fibres , this is clear evidence that adrenalin stimulates by acting directly on unstriated muscle and gland cells .
The assumption is based on the fact that the nerve-fibres , on section , degenerate up to the peripheral plexus ( or network ) .
There is no obvious reason why the degeneration should not proceed throughout .
Some cells , it is true , occur in close connection with the peripheral plexus , but it is practically certain that these are connective tissue cells .
A few experiments have been made by Fletcherf on the nerve plexus in the retractor penis of the hedgehog .
In these he found that the nerve plexus did not stain with methylene blue after degenerative section of the nerves supplying the muscle .
But there are difficulties in accepting the conclusion that adrenalin does not act on nerve endings which are not met with or are met with to a much less extent in dealing with the effect of nicotine and curari upon striated muscle and nerve cells .
The difficulties depend upon the apparently specific relation of adrenalin to the sympathetic system .
The broad facts with regard to this relation are as follows:\#151 ; Certain parts of the body are innervated by two systems of nerves , viz. , by the sympathetic system and by either the cranial autonomic or the sacral autonomic system .
It was pointed out by myself* that the stimulating effects produced by adrenalin are in all cases ( with the doubtful exception of the pupil in the dog)S like those produced by stimulating the sympathetic , and not like those produced by stimulating either of the other systems .
The sympathetic nerves cause contraction of nearly all the arteries of the body , but the contraction varies in ease of production and in intensity ; * Cf .
Lewandowsky , 'Arch .
f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. , ' 1899 , p. 360 ; Langley , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 27 , p. 237 , 1901 ; Brodie and Dixon , vol. 30 , p. 500 , 1904 ; Elliott , ibid. , vol. 33 , p. 401 , 1905 ; Langley , ibid. , vol. 33 , p. 376 , 1905 .
+ Fletcher ( 'Proc .
Physiol. Soc. , ' p. xxxvi , 1897 ) , 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 22 .
X Langley , 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 27 , p. 237 , 1901 .
S The contraction of the pupil caused by adrenalin has been shown by Elliott cit. supra ) to be due to central stimulation .
1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
the effect of adrenalin is , in general , proportional to the effect of electrical excitation of the nerves .
The arteries of the lungs , according to Brodie and Dixon , * and the coronary arteries , according to Schafer , f are equally unaffected by electrical stimulation of the sympathetic nerves and by adrenalin ; the like absence of effect is found with many of the veins of the body .
The sympathetic nerves supplying a given organ may produce different effects in different animals .
In all these cases , so far as observed , the effect of adrenalin corresponds with the effect of the nerves .
This has been shown in mammals chiefly by Elliott , \#163 ; and in amphibia and fish by Bottazzi .
S The differences which are found between the effects of adrenalin and of electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves are , first , that in a tissue which receives both motor and inhibitory nerve-fibres from the sympathetic , the balance of motor and inhibitory effects are not necessarily the same with the two stimuli ; thus , in some cases adrenalin produces much greater and more lasting inhibition than can be caused by electrical nerve stimulation , and , secondly , that some tissues are readily affected by stimulation of the sympathetic nerves , and barely at all , or only in enormous doses , by adrenalin .
Furthermore , it has been shown by Dale|| and confirmatory evidence has been given by Elliott , that ergot abolishes all the constrictor effects of the sympathetic , without impairing any of the effects of the cranial or sacral autonomic nerves , or the inhibitory effects of the sympathetic .
In this state adrenalin , according to Dale and to Elliott , causes inhibition in many of the regions innervated by the sympathetic , and has no constrictor effect whatever .
Thus , for example , the bladder of the ferret normally contracts when either the sympathetic or the sacral nerves are stimulated , or when adrenalin is injected .
After ergot the sacral nerves cause contraction as before , the sympathetic nerves and adrenalin cause inhibition .
The special relationship of adrenalin to the sympathetic system is , facie , strongly supported by the close developmental connection of the suprarenal body with the sympathetic ganglia .
This argument , however , loses , some of its force in consequence of Dale 's discovery that ergot , which is not formed at all in the body , has also a special action on the tissues innervated by the sympathetic system .
* Op. cit. supra .
t Schafer , 'Archives Intern , de Physiol.,5 vol. 2 , p. [ 141 ] , 1904 .
X Elliot , op .
cit. supra .
S Cf .
Bottazzi and Costanzi , 'Nuove Ricerche sull5 Azione dell5 Adrenalina e d. Para-ganglina5 ( Napoli ) , 1905 .
|| Dale , 'Proc .
Physiol. Soc.,5 p. lviii ( Mourn , of Physiol.,5 vol. 32 ) and Mourn , of Physiol.,5 vol. 34 , in the press .
192 Prof. J. N. Langley .
On Nerve Endings and on [ May 24 , The difficulty , then , which we have to face is that of reconciling the fact that adrenalin has a special relation to tissues innervated by sympathetic nerves , with the deduction from the degeneration experiments that adrenalin does not act on the nerves or their endings .
Elliott , adopting the theory that nerve and unstriated muscle are continuous , considers that adrenalin acts on the junction of the two\#151 ; the myo-neural junction\#151 ; and does not act either on muscle or on nerve endings .
It is important to keep clearly in mind that the question whether adrenalin does or does not act on muscle or on nerve endings is , up to a certain point , a matter of nomenclature .
If the nerve , the myo-neural junction , and the muscle , are regarded as successive parts of a continuous mass , it may then logically be said , on this theory , that adrenalin acts on the myo-neural junction and does not act on muscle or on nerve .
But the conclusion depends upon the definition of muscle and of nerve .
The junction , since it is not regarded as a separate entity comparable to the muscle cell or the nerve cell , must consist either of muscle substance or of nerve substance , or of both .
That is to say , adrenalin must act either on muscle substance or on nerve substance , or on both .
And as muscle substance is a part of the muscle cell , and a nerve substance is a part of the nerve cell , it cannot , from this point of view , be properly asserted either that adrenalin does not act on muscle , or that it does not act on nerve .
The legitimate statement from the premises is that it does not act on any muscle substance or on any nerve substance outside the limits of the myoneural junction .
Two arguments which have been used against the view that adrenalin acts on muscle should , I think , be definitely discarded .
Dixon , Brodie and Dixon , and Elliott argue that since , after apocodeine , adrenalin does not stimulate certain unstriated muscle , and barium chloride does , adrenalin cannot act on muscle .
This is the traditional argument used with regard to the effect of curarron nerve endings in striated muscle .
It rests on the identification of the contractile molecule of muscle with the whole muscle substance .
It is not only conceivable that the irritable substance should be part of the sarcoplasm , but also that it might be a radicle of the contractile molecule .
And in either case the irritable substance might be put out of action without destroying the contractile power of the muscle .
Elliott argues also that it is unlikely that the blood vessels of the lungs or heart should differ in their intrinsic musculature from those of the intestine to such a biochemical degree that the one set should be slightly dilated by adrenalin and the other powerfully contracted .
But , in fact , there is variation , and this can only be explained by a variation in nerves or muscles , and the variation might theoretically take place as well in the muscle as in the nerve .
As regards the localisation of the receptive substance , strong evidence that this occurs to a considerable extent is afforded by the action both 1906 .
] Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
of adrenalin and of chrysotoxin on tissues which have a double nerve supply , but the evidence cannot be regarded as conclusive .
In order to account for the special relation of adrenalin to the sympathetic system , Elliott supposes that the excitable substance of the myo-neural junction is formed in consequence of the union of the nerve with the muscle and not in virtue of any inherent property of the muscle .
The central point of this theory is clearly applicable whether there is union or only contact of nerve and muscle , and there is much that is attractive in the view that the receptive substance owes its formation to the nerve , but it does not , I think , satisfactorily account for the different degree of action of adrenalin and chrysotoxin on the receptive substance in different cases , * nor for the persistence of the substance after nerve degeneration .
If the receptive substance were formed in the muscle solely in consequence of its connection with a nerve , it seems most unlikely that the muscle would be able to take on the formation when the nerves have disappeared .
The view I take is that- the relation of poisons in general to special systems of nerves depends upon the developmental history of the connection of the different systems with the particular tissues .
It seems to me certain that the various cells of the body have a constant tendency to vary in chemical composition , and it is probable that these variations in any one tissue are approximately the same at the same time.f It is fairly certain that different systems of nerves establish nervous connections with the cells at different periods of phylogenetic development , and it is probable that when nervous connection is made it tends to make permanent certain of the chemical conditions existing at the time .
Thus the different systems of efferent nerves would chiefly , at any rate , owe their differences to the different characters of the " receptive " substances of the cells with which they have become connected.^ : General Conclusions .
In the foregoing account we have seen reason to believe that in each of the three great types of connection of the peripheral end of an efferent nerve with a cell it is some constituent of the cell substance which is stimulated or paralysed by poisons ordinarily taken as stimulating or para* Of .
Langley , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 33 , p. 408 , 1905 .
In this paper I have also considered , the action of some other alkaloids which bear on the question , such as those of Anderson on the action of atropine , pilocarpine , and eserine on the denervated pupil .
t A difference in the time of development of the sympathetic nerves to the skin and of those to the viscera might account for the different degree of action of poisons on the tissues innervated by the two sets of nerves .
+ Some inferences from this theory I have given in the paper quoted above .
194 Nerve Endings and Special Excitable Substances in Cells .
lysing nerve endings .
Eeasons , though less complete , have been given for supposing that these poisons have no special action on nerve endings , and that physiologically the nerve ending is not essentially different from the nerve-fibre .
In that case not only the function of reacting to numerous chemical bodies , but probably also the special liability of both afferent and efferent nerves to fatigue must be transferred from the nerve endings to the same constituent of the cell .
This theory adds to the complexity of the cell .
It necessitates the presence in it of one or more substances ( receptive substances ) which are capable of receiving and transmitting stimuli , and capable of isolated paralysis , and also of a substance or substances concerned with the main function of the cell ( contraction or secretion , or , in the case of nerve cells , of discharging nerve impulses ) .
So far as this is concerned , it does but accentuate a view which has often been put forward and which indeed in some form or other is inseparable from the idea of protoplasm .
I have spoken of different " substances " in the cell with the intent to use as vague a term as possible .
The " substances , " I take it , are radicles of the protoplasmic molecule .
At present , however , I do not think it advisable to speculate further either on this question or on certain other questions raised by the conclusions arrived at in the paper .
There are a number of obvious experiments still to be made , and these , it may be hoped , will settle some of the problems , the solution of which is now but guess work .

