]\gt ; 111 .
G. Vilson .
On a licthod of determining the VIII .
" " On the sion of and Oxygen by Palladium.\ldquo ; By LUDWIG MOND , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , WILLIAM ISAY , Ph. D. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , and SHIELDS , D.Sc .
, Ph. D. The Society adjourned ovel the Christmas Recess to rsday , Jalluary 2 , 1898 .
' : On a Method of determining the Beactions at the Points of Support of Continuous Beams By GLORGE M.Sc .
, in Engineel.ing in lVhitworth of the Owens College , IIanchester .
cated by Professor OLDS , 20 , \mdash ; Read Decelnbcl 16 , The of continuous beams bas been the subject of so mnch in past that further ' would seem almost fuous .
In certain which occur in practice , however , the computations out of the existing become comicated and laborious , if not impossible to duce , so that any solution which avoids these difficulties may be of sufficient value to walrallt its tion . .
Heppel , a paper read before this Society , aced the developments in the theory , culminating in the disccvery of the ' Theorem of Three Moments , ' by M. Bertot , in 1856 , and independ .
ently and Bresse , in 1857 .
to Clapeyron , Navier and other authors had ' the solution of the problem by obtaining the reactions at the rious points of support of beam ; Clapeyron , however , first introduced the innovation of considering the bending moments at the points of support { is ] unknown quantities to be detol.mined .
M. Bresse , in his ' Cours de Mecanique discussed very fully the solutious of the various problems by ihis method , on tlIe supposition of a constant moment of inflexibility of the of the beam the case of spans of arbitrary Iengths and for cases where the end spars are equal but of different th to intermediate spaus whose lengths are all supposed to bc equnl .
Mr. Heppcl , in above mentioned paper , solutions in the spans were divided into two , three , four , or five throughout each of which the load and the cross section of the were supposed lcmain constant , from ] division to anothel ofessors Perry and Ayrton ve dealt 11 ith the qucstion of * .
Soc. Proc Ibid. , , p. 493 .
at the Points of Snpport of Beams .
) 1-ariable molnent of by obtaining the tbeolem of three noments jn htly different forlll , the summations for ench spaIl bformed graphically , wtlence on substitution in the original equations the bending moments can be obtained .
The reverted to the ) roblenl of ctions at ts based his method on a principle , definitely atGd by nnd applied by him to the case of a nlliforln continuous } of two oqual spans .
The the mebhod givcll belo ffords an easy { solutiou C0llt uous beam problems , nnd moment of is variable .
It also nits of the ritl { ions the due to ltcrations in the levels of the ated .
The nay be reproduced as far as is necessary Th , ?
nt of by reason of the of the of be forces to act rately and , .
This ) .
so , am may bc considcred as a simple cn er-d and uuder the ction of the given ally d , and also under the action in lnediate picrs verticnlly If of the in nnloadeJ coodition is line , the of the action of these to make the final deflection of of intormediate points of support equal to Jl consist hpans will bc ?
prcs$urc of each of hich a by itsolH ( deflcction of the beam at any ) oint : the lltl ) by these prcssurcs at ( of ( Ylust the deflection produced there ) of the deflcctions coll be of llknowll concelltrated load .
it , ill , ther cquntions tho point there cactions tious arc suflicicnt to rmine their Yalucs .
Lcl . . . .
bo tbc of suppol } . .
' dc , p. 13 .
G. Wilson .
On a Meihod of determining the Let be the bendin , moment at any point in the mean fibre of the beam , dne to the given system of loading .
moment of inertia of the section of the beam upon which acts .
modulus of elasticity .
Let the origin be at ; the axis of bs ; and the axis of be perpendicular to that of and positive downwards .
Also let the suffixes , 1 , 2 , 3 . . .
refer to the corresponding points .
so that the bending moment at the first lutermediate poinb of support , due to the given )ading .
Then from the equation for the case of a beam supported at each end , we obtain is the tangent of the angle of inclination to the axis of of the tangent to the mean fibre at the origin\mdash ; hore y is the deflection at which would be produced were the beam only supported al each end and under the action of given loading .
let , \amp ; c. , be the bending moments at any point in mean fibre due to the upward thrust of the reactions .
at the points , and the corresponding tangents at the origin .
Then hence fillally since .
for the points lave actions at the Points of Snpport of Continuous Beams .
271 and so on , there being as many equations as intermcdiate points of If the function is assumed to represent the intensity of a new loading on the girder , it can be shown that the expression the value of the bending moment at the point , due to this new the beam as supported ] at each end .
Let this cxprcssion for the bending moment at be called , and that at , and similarly Again , may write the sion equal to the bending moment at , due to a new " " ) obtained a.ssulniug a unib force to act at Similarly Hence the equations become .
: .
, \amp ; c. \amp ; c. , from hich R bo easily obtained when the stants been determined .
Lord R.ylcigh has shown , in his ' Theory of Sound ' ( vol. 1 , p. 69 ) , that when beam is loaded with a concentrated load at any poinb and the is transferred to a seco1ld point , then the deflection at when the load is at is equal to the deflection at when tho load is at ence ; \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , thus the number of constants to } ) found , or ding a chcck on the accuracy of the In the example appended .
G. Wilson .
On a Method of the by calculation .
Mean Error per cent. In practice it is lally very to obtain the valuc of the by integration unless I is assumed to Be constant , or some simple function of The following method will , howevor , give the values of .
required to any degree of accuracy .
C. I. Let the APCA , obtained by erecting proporticnal to the values of at every point the mean fibre , represent the loading .
The bending moment at auy point may be found very simply as follows:\mdash ; If PN be any ordinate such represents the load on any small element at , then if PN be divided in so that Q , then represents that part of the reaction at due to this load PNdx at N. Hence by taking a sufficient of a curve AQC can be drawn to represenf the reaction at A due to the load APC .
Again , the load on AB may be replaced by a load A having an equal moment about , in a similar manner , either graphically as the figure , which explains itself , or by calculation .
Thus a second curve , ARB , is obtained .
Then it is easily been that the moment at is difference of the areas of the diagrams AQCA and ARBA , mnltiplied by AB , that is\mdash ; ( area AQCBRA ) .
This area may be obtained by a planimeter or by calculation , for at the ) of ' ) } if all the ordinates to the ctlrves at equnl .als , into au of the ) , the final diagranl -AQCi3ItA be its by \ldquo ; or ' rnle .
the aren has been ession oof ith csent the of nll ) , a to acbions , tho 1\ldquo ; I I LlSt . .
of he of cas if ot at the ] solufion l.lns ) ) one 01 ' of becomo of ithcrlo b line ) } gird ] is llot bc of I the is of of mcan of eall libc.t all 1 , to the Hbre , bhows thnb ) final deflection curve is the of posing of mean fibrc , tion curve under , for beam of 274 Mr. G. Wilson .
On a of nining the section at every point , but with a straight mean fibre , and hence method is applicable .
Appendix .
To find the magnitude of the reactions at the points of support a continuous girder of three spans feet , 100 feet , and 40 feet respectively ) , and loaded with a uniform load of 3 tons per foot run , the moment of inertia of the cross section being 2100 at the commencement of the 60-foot span and increasing uniformly to 3300 at the commencement of ths 100-foot span , and thence diminishing uniformly to 3000 at the beginnin of the 40-foot span , and further diminishing uniformly to 2200 at the other end of the , the units taken being feet and tons .
The variation of the moment of insrtia is shown in fig. 2 .
The curve in fig. is the curve for the beam resting on each end support , and loaded with 3 tons per foot run .
Treating this as a new load and reducing the ordinates in the correct proportion , the curve shows the amount of this load transmitted to to form the reaction there .
I C.2 .
Reactions at the Points of Support of binuous Beams .
Again the curves and show the loads acting at which ve their moments about and respectively , equal to the moments of the loads on and .
about and A2 respectively .
Hence area the cve in fig. 4 is the curves for 100ton load at , whencc area ] th , in shows the curve for 100 tons load at whence area A arca 1Ir .
G. Wilson .
On a of the The equa-ions for the supports lvhencc tons .
If I were asstlmed to be constant then by eorem o three moments tons .
The above values of constants were by dividing the spall into twenty equal ions of 10 , and calculating { he vaiue of the ordinates to curve at these points .
This is clearly shown in Tables I , II , III .
obtained tlJe ordinates to cnrve , in each case the succeeding ordinates could be written down almost by inspection , and employed to find the by Simpson 's , the time occupied being very short .
If the support at be supposed to be depressed inch line whilst is supposed to be elevated above it , bhe alteration in the forces is easily found .
For assumiug Hence the equations become whence 354.0 .
indicating that under these condilio1ls the end of the girdcr would have to be fastened down in some way .
Further alterations of level may be investigated in ftslml are ( ctions at the Points of Snpport of Contxnuous Beams 277 Mr. G. .
On a Method of determining Reactions at the of Support of tinmous Beams .
279

