I. " On some Alterations in the Composition of Carbonate-ofLime Waters , depending on the influence of Vegetation , Animal Life , and Season .
" By ROBERT WARINGTON , F.R.S. , F.C.S. Received October 19 , 1867 .
In carrying out through a series of years the principles of the aquarium for sustaining animal life in a confined and limited portion of water through the medium of growing vegetation * , I had observed that , during the summer months of the year , a considerable deposit made its appearance on the leaves of the plants and the glass front of the containing vessel , which was found to consist of carbonate of lime in a crystalline condition .
This deposit formed a nidus for the growth of confervoid vegetation , which , at certain seasons of the year , increased very rapidly .
These observations were alluded to at one of the Friday-evening meetings of the Royal Institution , March 27 , 1857 , when portions of the deposit were exhibited , and its composition demonstrated by experiment .
The formation of this deposit was then explained as arising from the fact that , as the summer season advances , and we have a longer continuance and also a greater intensity of the light of the sun , the absorption and consequent decomposition of carbonic acid by the plants is carried to a much greater extent , while the quantity of carbonic acid produced by the fish remains unchanged .
The solvent of the carbonate of lime contained in the water being thus withdrawn , a deposit slowly takes place , incrusting the sides of the tank , particularly towards the light , where the confervoid growth , consequent upon it , accumulates in large quantities .
In continuing these observations , my attention was particularly arrested by the steady increase of deposition , attendant upon the renewed activity of the leaves , during the spring ; and this determined me to ascertain by experiment the quantity of carbonate of lime existent in the water at fixed intervals during a long period of time .
And inasmuch as the degrees of hardness , indicated by the measures of Clark 's soap-test , presented a very ready , accurate , and simple means of arriving at this result , that mode of estimation was adopted , care being taken to displace any uncombined carbonic acid by agitating the sample with atmospheric air prior to the addition of the test , as directed by Dr. Clark , the indications or degrees thus obtained representing the quantity of lime-salts contained in an imperial gallon of the sample ( 70'000 grains of distilled water ) in terms of carbonate of lime .
In order that the nature of the experiment may be more clearly understood , it will perhaps be better for me , before stating the results thus obtained , to describe briefly the construction and arrangement of the aquarium , its position , and its contents .
The tank consisted of a rectangular zinc framing , twenty inches long by thirteen broad , and twenty-one in depth , having slate cemented into it at the bottom and sides , and being glazed at the back and front .
It was filled with water to the height of twelve inches , or a volume equal to ten gallons , and on the slate sides were cemented , at the water-line , ledges of rockwork composed of sandstone and tufaceous limestone from Matlock , on which were planted a few ferns , chiefly Trichomanes , for ornament .
The bottom of the tank was covered , for about two inches , with a mixture of sandy loam and gravel , into which several plants of the Vallisneria spiralis , the vegetable member of the arrangement , were inserted .
Some large fragments of rough rockwork , principally limestone , were also placed upright on the bottom to break up the stiff outline of the square framing , and give a pleasing effect to the eye .
The animal branch of the circle consisted of four small crucian carp with a gold carp .
Several freshwater mollusks , principally Planorbis corneus and Limneus palustris , were also introduced to act as scavengers and consume the decaying vegetation .
The tank was loosely covered with a plate of glass , so as to allow of a free admission of the external ail , and at the same time keep out a great deal of the soot and dust of the London atmosphere and impede the too rapid evaporation of the water .
As the Trichomanes were stated to delight in shade , a thin muslin blind was placed over the covering glass .
The aquarium was located in a window-way having an eastern aspect , but , being surrounded within a few yards by the high walls of adjoining houses , the direct rays of the sun only reached it for about three hours in the morning during the months of June and July .
It was established in January 1851 , and has not since been disturbed , except by occasional supplies of distilled or rain-water , to replace the loss in volume arising from evaporation .
It had been my custom to weed out the excessive growth of the Vallisneria during the summer , and also to remove some of the flaky deposit of calcareous matter from the surface of the glass nearest the light ; but as I considered that such disturbances might interfere with the course of the investigation , these operations were discontinued .
The results that have been obtained from this investigation during the years 1861 and 1862 are as follows:o { degrees of hardness , or grains of lime-salts , 1861 .
March 13 ... .
26-2 per imperial gallon , in terms of carbonate of lime .
May 1 ... .
19 5 , July 3 ... .
12-5 August 1 ... .
13-6 , Sept. 17 ... .
15-0 , , , Oct. 8 ... .
155 , &gt; Nov. 12. .
18-0 , Dec. 9 ... .205 , , , 1862 .
Jan. 8 ... .
235 , Feb. 8 ... .250 .
March 3 ... .
23-0 , April 3 ... .
21'0 , May 2 ... .
19-0 , , June 4 ... .
16'5 , , July 4 ... .
14-0 , , August 5 ... .
12'0 Sept. 2 ... .
12.5 , , , The amount of calcareous matter dissolved will be seen to have steadily decreased during the spring and summer months , from its maximum in March 1861 and February 1862 to its minimum in July 1861 and August 1862 , and then to have increased as steadily during the autumn and winter months .
Part of this hardness , however , unquestionably arose from the presence in the water of other salts of lime besides the carbonate .
To determine how much was the next point for investigation .
Portions of the water were taken on several occasions and boiled for a considerable time , filtered , and the volume restored to its original bulk with distilled water .
On examining these portions with the soap-test , it was found that the hardness was lowered to 5'6 degrees , equivalent to 5'6 grains of carbonate of lime .
But inasmuch as carbonate of lime is soluble in water to the extent of 24 grains in the imperial gallon-* , this will be reduced to 3'2 grains , which amount will therefore have to be deducted from each of the above results , in order to arrive at the true quantity of carbonate present in solution .
The maximum and minimumr results will then stand thus : CaO , CO2 in the CaO , CO0 in the imperial gallon .
imperial gallon .
1861 .
Maximun m ... .
23'0 1862 .
M aximum ... . .
21 8MI inimum ... . .
9'3 .
Minimum ... ... 8'8 t Chemical Report on the Supply of Water to the Mletropolis , June 17 , 1851 , by Messrs. Grah am , Ivliller , [ and IXofiann ; and'Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society , vol. iv .
p. 381 .
T2 1867 .
] 191 The data thus obtained will help to elucidate several very important and interesting phenomena in respect to all the three elements of the arrangement the water , the fish , and the vegetation .
1 .
The Vater .
The importance of growing submerged vegetation in maintaining waters , rich in carbonate of lime , in a meliorated state by diminishing their hardness has been clearly demonstrated by the foregoing data ; and how necessary , therefore , it is that this association should be kept in view whenever a soft and healthful water is required for domestic purposes .
Unfortunately this appears hitherto not to have been well understood , or at all events has been little attended to , since the very agent which has been provided naturally for effecting these beneficial results has been most commonly regarded as an evil , and studiously eradicated in all directions .
These data will also explain the cause of the rapid growth of vegetation in well-waters rich in carbonic acid , when pumped into tanks or reservoirs and exposed to the full light of day .
The plant-germs , naturally contained in the water or absorbed from the atmosphere , being supplied with an abundance of appropriate nourishment , rapidly vegetate , and the containing vessels , particularly during the summer months , soon become thickly coated with a dense confervoid growth .
It will also follow that all fish , as generators of carbonic acid , should be excluded from waters flowing over carbonate-of-lime strata , and intended for the supply of towns &amp;c. , as tending to increase their hardness .
Of course the absence of calcareous matter would prevent such an effect taking place-a fact borne out by the well-known softness of springs and rivers flowing out of or over granite or sandstone rocks , even when thickly inhabited by the scaly tribe .
2 .
The Fish .
It is well known that water has the property of absorbing air from the surrounding atmosphere , and holding it in solution to the extent of from onefortieth to one-thirtieth of its volume , not , however , without somewhat changing the proportion of its constituents ; for when the absorbed air is abstracted from water it usually contains about thirty-two per cent. of oxygen gas , instead of twenty-one .
This oxygen is converted by the respiration of the fish into carbonic acid , which is held dissolved by a still stronger affinity , the water being capable of retaining as much as its own volume of this gas in solution at the ordinary temperature and pressure of the atmosphere .
In the above-described arrangement the carbonic acid thus produced is absorbed by hte submerged vegetation under the influence of the sun 's light ; the carbon is appropriated for its growth , while the oxygen is again liberated and helct in solution by the water , provided the evolution is not too rapid , an effect produced by too great an exposure to the sun 's light .
When this is the case , much of the oxygen necessarily escapes into the air [ Dec. 5 , in a gaseous state and is lost .
During the winter season , however , when the active functions of vegetation are to a great extent dormant , from the diminished quantity and intensity of the sun 's light , the amount of carbonic acid produced by the respiration of the fish is greater than the plants are capable of consuming , and the excess must necessarily accumulate in the water .
Were the production of carbonic acid confined to a short period , the water would doubtless right itself after a time , the poisonous gas passing away and fresh atmospheric air being absorbed .
As , however , the production of carbonic acid is constant , this ameliorating action can have little effect ; the water must remain always highly charged with carbonic acid .
Here , then , its solvent action on the carbonate of lime , present in the rockwork and gravel , comes into play , and the hardness of the water is gradually increased in proportion as the light diminishes .
Now , supposing for an instant that no carbonate of lime had been present in the arrangement , the question arises , what must then have ensued ?
The fish would have continued to respire , " and would produce carbonic acid as before , which , remaining in a free state dissolved in the water , would unquestionably have had a most detrimental effect upon their health .
Every one must have noticed the manner in which the golden carp confined in a globe of water , in which there is no growing vegetation to decompose the carbonic acid generated , or no limestone to combine with it , rise to the surface and continually gulp in the air required for their vital functions .
Nothing whatever of this kind has ever been noticed in the aquarium under consideration , although the quantity of carbonic acid dissolved in the water has been at times very large .
From the experiments of Bischof* , we glean that the carbonic acid contained in a saturated aqueous solution is entirely displaced by a current of atmospheric air passed through it for five minutes ; and also t that , by the same means , a solution of carbonate of lime , in water previously saturated with carbonic acid , will have all the excess of gas displaced in fifteen minutes , leaving the water with bicarbonate of lime in solution .
It is in this form of combination that MIM .
Peligot : and Poggiale ?
consider the carbonate of lime to exist in the water of the Seine , and M. Bineau 11 in that of the Rhone , in which rivers they state there is no free carbonic acid .
In the present investigation we shall therefore assume it to be in the same state of combination .
We have , in the -series of experiments detailed above , an increase in the quantity of carbonate of lime held in solution , amounting to 14-2 grains in the imperial gallon , which would require nearly 6 , grains of carbonic acid gas to dissolve it .
Besides this there is also the quantity already present in the water at its minimum , which amounts to nearly four grains more , or in all to about ten grains , equal to nearly cubic inches of that gas in the ten gallons of water , or more than -1-th its volume .
The exact numbers will be seen in the following Table : CaO , CO2 in the gallon .
CO2 .
1861 3faximum 23'0 grains , requiring 10'120 grains to form CaO , 2CO .
'[3inimurn 93 , , , , 4 092 , , , , 186 fMlaximum 21'8 , , 9-592 , , , , , Minimum 8 8 , , , 3872 ... .
Carbonic acid required to dissolve the increase 6 248 grains 13 269 cub. in .
, , , , minimum 3-872 , , 8228 , 10-120 , , 21497 , , Yet , although the quantity of poisonous gas had been thus increased , we find no deleterious action on the health of the fish , no disturbance in the ordinary respiration , no gulping at the surface of the water for fresh air .
It is quite evident , therefore , that the carbonic acid , by entering into combination with carbonate of lime , however weak that combination may be , is thereby rendered perfectly innocuous , and a wonderful provision is thus afforded for preventing this poisonous agent from becoming fatal to animal life .
We turn now to the next member of our arrangement .
3 .
The Vegetation .
It will be seen from the foregoing numerical results that the maximum quantity of dissolved carbonate of lime , and consequently of carbonic acid , is found just before the period of the reviving energies of the plant 's growth , namely , the spring time of the year , when the days are lengthening and the sun 's light is continually increasing in strength ; the minimum quantity when this growth has attained its greatest exuberance , namely , when the summer months are past and the light is beginning to decrease in its intensity and the days to shorten .
So exactly , indeed , are the energies of the plants regulated by the amount of light to which they are exposed , that a constant arrangement , such as that here described , affords an excellent indication of the variation of the seasons in different years , or might even be made a rough measure of the total amount of light from month to month .
But while the demand for carbonic acid on the part of the plant varies in this manner with the seasons , the amount of that gas produced by the respiration of the fish is very nearly the same all through the year .
Whence , then , does the plant obtain that additional quantity of food which its stimulated energies require during the spring and early summer months , and which its rapid and luxurious growth show to be readily supplied ?
After what has been stated , I think the source must be apparent to every one-it is from the carbonic acid which has been gradually accumulated , and rendered innocuous to animal life from its being held in combination with carbonate of lime , in so marvellous a manner during the winter 194 [ Dec. 5 , months .
Stored up , yet held in feeble combination , a combination so weak that the vital forces of the fresh-growing vegetation can easily overcome it , and resolve once more into carbonate of lime , carbon , and oxygen the bicarbonate of lime contained in the water ' .
Thus beautifully are the necessary irregularities in the purifying action of the plant compensated and provided for , that the balance of existence between the animal and vegetable organisms be not disturbed or overthrown , and thus additional proof is furnished , if such were needed , of the wisdom of that creative power that has ordered all things to work together for good , and by endowing certain bodies with such seemingly minute and insignificant affinities , maintains the glorious harmony of the whole .

