Influence of a Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
413 The entries of " all cases " and of " tricolours observed " in Table Y are deduced from Table I , by combining the appropriate columns .
The letters at the top show which columns are combined .
Seven other observed cases , disposed in three groups , are scattered beyond the limits of Table YI ; two of these seven cases are tricolour .
" Further Note on the Influence of a Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
" By Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. , assisted by Mr. Benjamin Davies .
Received May 19 , \#151 ; Read June 3 , 1897 .
Referring to a former communication of mine , on the subject of Zeeman 's discovery , printed on page 513 of the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for February 11 this year , vol. 60 , No. 367 , I wish to add an observation to those previously recorded , as I have recently acquired a concave Rowland grating ( 3|- X 1-jj-inch ruled surface , 14,438 lines to inch , 10 feet radius of curvature , being the one used by Mr. George Higgs ) , of which the spectra of the first and third orders on one side are very satisfactory .
It is said on page 513 , " If the focussing is sharp enough to show a narrow , dark reversal line down the middle of each sodium line , that dark line completely disappears when the magnet is excited .
' With the greater optical power now available the dark reversal line is often by no means narrow , and though in some positions of the flame it does still tend to disappear or become less manifest when the flame is subjected to a concentrated magnetic field , the reason of its partial disappearance is that it is partially reversed again\#151 ; i.e. , that a third bright line , as it were , makes its appearance in the midst of the dark line , giving a triple appearance to each sodium line .
More completely stated the phenomena are as follows:\#151 ; After obtaining each sodium line with a prominently double aspect by manipulating the flame , the magnet is excited , and the dark band in the midst of each sodium line is then seen to widen out considerably in the region of most intense magnetisation , while a bright intrusion line makes its appearance .
On closer examination this new line is seen to bo double , by reason of a dark division down its middle ; and I apprehend that with still more magnetic power this dark band might itself open out into two ; but this last phenomenon I have not yet observed .
The whole sodium group is thus seen as if it were octuple .
The effect is not due to a mere mechanical disturbance or rearrangement of the gases of the flame by the agency of magnetism ; because a 414 Influence of a Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
nicol , placed in the rajs emanating transversely to the magnetic lines of force , cuts off nearly all the visible magnetic effect when oriented so as to get rid of light whose plane of polarisation contains the lines of force\#151 ; that is , of oscillations or revolutions whose electrical components are across or around the magnetic lines .
That it does not cut off every trace of the effect appears to be due to the fact that the field of force is not strictly uniform , and so its lines are not strictly pai'allel .
The following is a summary of the different appearances that may be seen according to the state of the flame and the strength of the field:\#151 ; At low temperature , and with the flame forward in the field , when each sodium line is sharp and single , magnetism widens it , and with a little more power doubles it , causing a distinct dark line down its middle .
The same effect occurs with lithium and thallium lines .
At higher temperature , and with the flame partially behind the field , when each sodium line appears as a broad hazy-edged double , magnetisation greatly widens the doubling , pushing asunder the bright components very markedly ; stronger magnetisation reverses the middle of the widened dark band , giving a triple appearance ; stronger magnetisation still reverses the middle once more , giving a quadruple appearance to the line .
In every case a nicol , suitably placed , cuts off all the magnetic effect and restores the original appearance of the line .
A curious circumstance is that although both lines , Dj and D2 , show the effect , Dx , i.e. , the less refrangible line , show 's it best and most sharply .
I should describe the effect on D2 as a coarse widening of considerable amount , but without very clear definition ; whereas the widening of D " though perhaps no greater in amount , is decidedly better defined .
There is no doubt but that , with my grating , Dj is the line at which one finds oneself usually looking in order to see the details of the change best ; and I can hardly suppose this to be subjective to the grating .
I hope to show the effects at the soiree next Wednesday .
same thing is seen when salts of lithium or of thallium me introduced into the flame ; and the components of the doubled red lines are more widely separated than the components of the doubled green lines , the effect being proportional to wave-length .
The most Tnteresting line to try was the red cadmium line , since this has been proved to be of specially simple constitution by Michelson .
We have recently been able to get the cadmium spectrum well developed by means of a sort of spark arc between the magnet poles , maintained by an induction coil excited by an alternating machine ; and wm find that the magnetic doubling of the chief lines occurs in Report to the Water Research Committee .
415 precisely the same way with the spark spectrum as with the flame spectrum , and that the red cadmium line behaves in the same way as the others .
The magnetic effect is better seen , from a direction perpendicular to the line of force , when a nicol is interposed in the path of the light , but rotation of the nicol through 90 ' cuts it entirely off , accurately so when a small spark is the source of light.\#151 ; May 31 .
] Fifth Report to the Royal Society Water Committee .
By H. Marshall Ward , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
Presented to the President and Council , December 10 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The following is a short resume of the principal points resulting from three years ' study of the Bacterial 1 lora of the Thames .
All the forms have been grown on gelatine , agar , and potato , as well as in broth , milk , and sugar-solutions , and some of them in special media in addition .
Moreover , most of them have been cultivated in hanging drops under the microscope , sometimes isolated and under high powers , for long periods , and the course of development of the colonies traced in detail in several cases , and even when this could not be successfully carried to a conclusion , information as to the changes and growth of the organisms has been obtained , which helps to throw light on their behaviour and relationships .
This work has occupied a long time , and these water bacteria do little beyond growing and dividing , so that in many respects this part of the work only starts problems for the future .
In some cases , however , the morphological changes observed are helpful in explaining the macroscopic appearances of the colonies , and in any case it is clear that no examination of a bacterium can be considered complete until its life-bistory has been traced under the microscope .
The number of forms isolated and cultivated amount to eighty , not counting the large number which were either rejected at an early stage as certainly duplicates , or lost during cultivation .
Of these eighty forms some have been distinctly recognised as well known types , e.g. , Bacillus memhranaceus ( Eis .
) , B. fluoresceus liquefaciens ( FI .
) , B. Jluorescens ( FI .
) , B. coli commune , Proteus vulgaris ( Haus .
) , Bacillus arhorescens ( Fr. ) , B. prodigiosus(Ehr ) , B. termo(Cohn ) , suhtilis , and Sarcina lutea .

