Account of Levellings carried across the Isthmus of Panama , to ascertain the relative Height of the Pacific Ocean at Panamad , and of the Atlantic at the mouth of the River Chagres ; accompanied by Geographical and Topographical Notices of the Isthmus .
By John Augustus Lloyd , Esq. Communicated by Captain Sabine , Sec. R.S. Read November 26 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 59 .
] The author having received from General Bolivar a special commission to survey the Isthmus of Panama , with the view of ascertaining the most eligible line of communication between the two seas , arrived at Panama in March 1828 .
Here he was joined by Captain Falmarc , a Swedish officer of Engineers , in the Colombian service .
Anxious to lose no time in the prosecution of their objects , they proceeded on the 5th of May to commence their operations , resolving not to be deterred by the difficulties likely to arise from the rainy season , which had just set in , from personal privations , and even from the dangers to which they might expose their health .
Their line of survey commenced at Panama , and was continued along the old road to Porto Velo till it came to the bed of the Chagres , a river which falls into the Gulf of Mexico .
The greatest height passed over in this line was 633 32 feet above the level of high water at Panama .
Their constitutions were now beginning to suffer from the continued exposure to rain , and they therefore determined , after building a secure station on the banks of the Chagres , to defer all future operations till the ensuing year , when the dry season should be established .
On the 7th of February , 1829 , they resumed their labours , carrying on their levels from a point of the river below their former station , and 152*55 feet above high-water mark at Panama , along the course of the river to a place distant about 12 miles from its mouth , called La Bruja , where the water in dry seasons is very brackish , and from which there is no perceptible current to the sea .
The result of this survey fixes the mrean height of the Pacific , at Panamna , at 3 52 feet above the Atlantic at Chagres .
Between the extremes of elevation and depression of the greatest tides in the Pacific at Panama , there is a difference of 27 44 feet ; but the mean difference at the usual spring tides is 21*22 .
At Chagres , this difference is only 1l 6f foot , and is the same at all seasons of the year .
Hence it follows , that at high water , the time of which is nearly the same on both sides of the Isthmus , the Pacific is raised , at mean tides , 10-61 feet , and the Atlantic 0*58 foot , above their respective mean levels , giving to the former an elevation above the latter of 13 55 feet .
At low water , both seas being below their respective mean levels , by the same quantities as before stated , the Pacific will be lower than the Atlantic by 6l51 feet ; so that thus , in the course of every interval from one high tide to the succeeding one , the level of the Pacific is at first higher , then equal , and afterwards lower than the Atlantic ; and then again passing back by the same steps it regains its former elevation as the tide returns .
The great chain of mountains which extends from the Andes in South America to the Mexican and Rocky Mountains in North America , is not , as is generally supposed , absolutely continuous through the Isthmus connecting these two continents ; for the northern Cordillera on the eastern side of the province of Veragua , breaks into detached mountains of considerable height , having steep and rugged sides .
To these succeed numerous conical mountains , rising from plains and savannahs , and seldom exceeding from 300 to 500 feet in height .
Between Chagres on the Atlantic side , and Chorrera on the Pacific , the conical mountains are less numerous , and are separated by extensive plains , with only a few occasional insulated hills of inferior extent and elevation .
Thus it happens that at the narrowest part of the Isthmus , a break occurs in the mountain-chain , which , in almost every other part , is uninterrupted from its northern to its southern extremities ; a circumstance which marks this spot as peculiarly adapted for the establishment of a communication across .
The author has laid down on his map two lines for a rail-road , both commencing at a point near the junction of the river Trinidad with the Chagres , and crossing the intervening plain , the one to Chorrera , the other to Panama .
The latter line , although the longer of the two , would have the advantage of terminating in a considerable city .
The banks of the river Trinidad are represented by the author as being well suited for wharfs , especially in the neighbourhood of the spot he recommends as the commencement of a rail-road ; but as the mouth of the Chagres is impeded by a bar , he suggests the expediency of forming a communication with the adjacent Bay of Limon , which , in its present state , affords excellent anchorage , and which , by making certain improvements in it , pointed out in the paper , might , at a small expense , be rendered one of the most commodious and safe harbours in the world .

