418 Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
form , and that there is evidence that the intramolecular vibrations are not due to tautomeric change , we suppose that , whilst the oscillations are in this case also due to the ultimate formation and breaking down of an unstable intramolecular ring system , the ring is different in type from that assumed to be found in the simple ketones , and that the oscillations take place between the phases represented in figs. 6 and 7 .
o H ^-c\ .** .C-CH , CH-C 3 3 C-CH .
.* .
H K **H Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
The examples quoted will , we hope , serve to make our suggestions regarding the cause of selective absorption in ketones sufficiently clear .
It remains to be added that further work is in progress which is intended to test the validity of these suggestions .
Egyptian Blue .
By A. P. Laurie , D.Sc .
, F.R.S.E. , W. F. P. McLintock , B.Sc. , and F. D. Miles , B.Sc. , A.B.C.S. ( Communicated by Sir A. H. Church , K.C.Y.O. , F.R.S. Received October 29 , \#151 ; Read December 4 , 1913 .
) The artificial blue pigment used in Egypt from the IVth Dynasty and also used widely during the time of the Roman Empire has been investigated by many chemists , including Sir Humphry Davy , * Vauquelin , f H. de Fontenay , * Darcet , F. Fouqu6 , S and Dr. W. J. Russell , F.R.S. , but the exact nature of the compound and the manner of its formation do not yet seem to have been finally decided .
According to Vitruvius , the blue was made by heating together a mixture of copper filings , sand , and soda in a furnace .
A great deal of information * " On Colours in Use by the Ancients , " ' Phil. Trans. , " 1815 .
t ' Passalacqua 's Catalogue,5 p. 239 .
t ' Annals de Chimie,5 serie 5 , vol. 2 , p. 193 .
S ' Bull .
Soc. des Mines de France , vol. 12 , p. 36 .
Egyptian Blue .
has been obtained as to the actual furnaces used and the methods of heating which will be found in " Notes on Egyptian Colours " by F. C. J. Spurrell , reprinted from the 'Archaeological Journal , ' September , 1895 .
The temperature of the furnace was never sufficiently high to result in fusion , a mass of semi-fused frit being obtained which was easily powdered , and there is evidence that this frit was powdered and reheated more than once in order to develop the blue .
Modern chemists have analysed samples of this blue , and have also made experiments on its reproduction .
We do not propose to give an account of all these , but simply the summing up of the main facts which have led to the necessity for a further investigation .
Fouque* experimented upon samples of real Egyptian blue , and gives an analysis , from which he comes to the conclusion that the blue was a double silicate of copper and calcium , for which he gives the formula Ca0 , Cu0,4Si02 , and states that the samples he examined were entirely free from soda and potash .
He then proceeds to state that this double silicate is a definite crystalline compound , of which the following are the characteristics:\#151 ; " The specific gravity is 3*04 .
" It is a crystalline substance , belonging to the quadratic system .
It appears in the form of scales flattened parallel to the base of the prism , and often jagged at the edges , sometimes , however , ending in clear rectangular outlines .
The diameter of these scales does not exceed 2 mm. , their thickness rarely exceeds 0'5 mm. They are of a beautiful azure blue .
" Seen in parallel light between crossed nicols they remain tinted in all directions .
In convergent polarised light they display the cross and ring characteristic of uniaxial minerals .
With a quarter-wave-length mica plate it is easy to determine the negative sign of the mineral .
These scales , seen under the microscope on their edge , with interposition of a nicol , offer a very remarkable pleochroism .
With the rays vibrating parallel to the axis , they are of a pale rose colour ; with vibrations in a direction perpendicular to the axis they are of an intense blue .
" The double refraction is O031 .
" Shortly after this paper by Fouque , Dr. W. J. Russell took up the question of the nature of Egyptian blue , and , after examination of samples supplied to him by Prof. Flinders Petrie , proceeded to make a series of elaborate experiments on its reproduction .
He has given an account of these in a paper printed in Prof. Petrie 's volume on Medum , and also in a lecture read before the Royal Institution ( 1893 ) .
He states that he succeeded in making the blue from mixtures of copper carbonate , calcium carbonate , quartz sand , and fusion mixtures .
He made a large number of experiments on mixtures * ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 108 , p. 325 .
2 k 2 420 Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
in which calcium carbonate was an ingredient , and on several from which the calcium carbonate was left out .
It is not quite clear whether he regarded the calcium carbonate as an essential constituent , and whether he considered that the sodium and potassium carbonates had also entered into the combination of the blue itself , or were merely there as fluxes .
It is evident , on examining his notebooks , that Dr. Russell had Fouque 's paper before him , because more than once he mentions trying Fouque 's receipt , in which potassium sulphate replaces the potassium and sodium carbonates , but he in no case refers to the crystalline properties , or indicates that he has examined his samples between crossed nicols , so it would appear that he regarded Fouque 's conclusions as of no importance .
In the account given by Mr. Spurred already referred to , after an elaborate description of the actual processes of manufacture as rediscovered in Egypt from the examination of remains of .
furnaces and of lumps of Egyptian blue that have been found , he proceeds to reject Fouqu6 's results , stating that his products could not be the Egyptian blue at all without soda as a necessary ingredient .
A careful study of Fouque 's paper reveals the fact that he has made several contradictory statements as to the method of preparation of the blue , and it is impossible to derive from his paper any clear conception of how the blue was made .
Our attention was directed to the matter from the fact that having got some samples of real Egyptian blue we proceeded to examine them between crossed nicols , and at once the crystalline character of the blue was revealed .
The crystals were mixed with quartz and very often with a little lime , which may have been present from the beginning or may have been added as part of the mixture when the blue was used for painting .
This directed our attention to Fouque 's paper , and on making a more careful examination we found that the description given by him of the crystalline character of the blue was absolutely correct .
We examined samples from the lid of a coffin of the Xlth Dynasty and from a piece of Roman fresco on the Palatine Hill , a piece of the crude frit obtained from the Manchester Museum , a piece of crude frit occurring among Dr. Russell 's samples , two samples from Viriconium in Shropshire , a sample obtained in Syria , and another sample formerly in the possession of Dr. Russell , from Gurob and of the XVIIIth Dynasty .
In every case these samples , obtained from so many different sources and extending over such large periods of time , prove to have exactly the same crystalline character .
We have also obtained a sample from Knossos , which is typical Egyptian blue .
Egyptian Blue .
It is evident then that Fouque 's description of the nature of this compound is correct , and it became of interest to examine the samples actually prepared by Dr. Eussell to see whether they consisted simply of a semifused copper glass or of the properly constituted blue .
Fortunately Dr. Scott was able to supply us with a large number of these samples , and also to lend us the late Dr. Russell 's notebooks , by which we were able to trace his methods of preparation .
These methods can be roughly divided into two groups : cases in which the blue was prepared from copper carbonate , quartz , and fusion mixture alone ; and from copper carbonate , calcium carbonate , quartz , and fusion mixture .
The samples we obtained were all numbered and dated , so that it was possible to trace in the notebooks the processes through which they had been put .
In the case of the samples containing calcium carbonate we found that in every instance they had been ground and reheated sometimes several times before the blue was properly developed , the sample after the first heating very often being black , the blue gradually improving with each new heating .
In the case of the blue made without calcium carbonate the one heating seems to have been sufficient .
In all we examined some 13 specimens of the blue prepared by Dr. Russell .
Of these eight were prepared with calcium carbonate and five with sodium-potassium carbonate alone .
The eight specimens prepared with calcium carbonate were all genuine examples of the Egyptian blue , consisting simply of quartz grains and of the blue crystals , as far as could be detected under the microscope .
Of the five samples made with sodium-potassium carbonate alone , two contained a few very minute crystals of the right formation , probably due to traces of lime , the rest consisting simply of blue glass , and therefore proving not to be Egyptian blue at all .
The enquiry up to this point had definitely established two facts .
In the first place the Egyptian blue is correctly described by Fouque as a definite crystalline silicate of copper , with the properties that have already been enumerated .
In the second place Dr. Russell succeeded in reproducing this copper silicate by repeatedly grinding and heating at a temperature below fusion , a mixture of quartz , copper carbonate , calcium carbonate , and fusion mixture , but in the absence of calcium carbonate the blue was not found , with the exception of the occasional minute traces mentioned above .
At the same time it was evident that the exact conditions under which this crystalline compound was formed had not been established , and therefore the following experiments were instituted .
For these experiments , the following mixture was taken : Fine sand , 36 grin .
; fusion mixture , 4 grm. ; copper carbonate , 8'6 grm. ; calcium carbonate , 7'2 grm. The copper 422 Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
carbonate and the calcium carbonate are in the proportions given by Fouque s formula .
The amount of fusion mixture and of sand in this receipt is taken from one of Dr. Russell 's , with the exception that the amount of copper carbonate has been slightly reduced .
The experiments were carried out in a Heraeus electric resistance furnace , with a platinum-iridium junction introduced , with a view to measuring the temperature .
A few grammes of the mixture were introduced into a small Battersea parting cup , which was about half full .
As soon as the mixture had been heated sufficiently long to begin to set , a little piece of broken crucible was laid on the top , and the rest of the crucible packed with asbestos .
The thermal junction , which was placed in a double quartz tube , but with the end of the junction bare , was buried in the asbestos , the other junction being kept at about 20 ' .
The temperatures were read on one of Paul 's thermo-galvanometers .
The sample was kept at a uniform temperature from 16 to 20 hours .
The first batch inserted was kept at a temperature of 760 ' .
On examining the product on the removal from the crucible , it was -seen that the greater part of the mixture was still upcombined , but at the same time the quartz had been slightly attacked , being covered partly with a bluish-green glass .
The next batch was kept at a temperature of 800 ' .
On examining the resultant mass a considerable quantity of an olive-green glass was seen to have been formed .
There was still a certain amount of white uncombined material , and a considerable quantity of black copper oxide .
The next batch was run at a temperature of 830 ' .
On examining the product under the microscope , it contained , as would be expected , a considerable quantity of uncombined and unfused quartz , and a certain amount of black , uncombined copper oxide , the olive-green glass already described , and large quantities of the blue crystals , agreeing exactly in their optical properties with those found in the Egyptian blue in the correct samples prepared by Dr. Bussell .
On cutting a section through the mass , and mounting in Canada balsam , it was quite easy to see the colourless pieces of unattacked quartz , with occasional particles of black copper oxide , and the blue crystals surrounded by a magma of the olive-green glass which was still present .
Having arrived at the temperature at which the blue was formed a gas muffle was adjusted to the same temperature , and in this larger batches were made .
In the case of these batches Dr. Bussell 's plan of regrinding and reheating was adopted .
By doing this two or three times the green glass completely disappears , and only occasional traces of black copper oxide are left , the resultant mass consisting of the blue crystals and uncomEgyptian Blue .
bined quartz , and corresponding therefore to the lump samples of frit from the Egyptian furnaces , but much richer in the crystalline blue .
The next sample was run in the same way in the electric furnace at a temperature of 905 ' .
This sample , on examination , proved to contain quartz , black copper oxide , and olive-green glass , but no blue crystals at all .
Evidently , therefore , the temperature at which these blue crystals are formed lies between 800 ' and 900 ' , and is somewhere about 830 ' .
In order to confirm still further the limiting temperature of about 900 ' another batch was run at 890 ' .
The product was found to consist almost entirely of green glass , with a few blue crystals at the bottom of the crucible .
It is evident then from these experiments that 900 ' may be taken as the limiting tefnperature .
In a further experiment a little more of the blue frit which had been formed in the muffle furnace was taken and raised to a temperature of 1150 ' .
It seemed to consist of quartz and bottle-green glass with no indication of the formation of cuprous oxide , as mentioned by Fouque .
When heated at the lower temperature it at once recovered its blue colour , showing the reformation of the crystalline copper silicate .
Another portion was put into a wind furnace and raised to a temperature of about 1400 ' , and then heated in an electric furnace at about 850 ' , when the blue was restored .
The matter was pressed still further by taking a small portion of the blue frit from the muffle furnace and fusing it before an oxyhydrogen blowpipe .
This sample proved to contain some cuprous oxide when examined under the microscope , thus agreeing with Fouque 's description .
The button was then run for 48 hours at 850 ' , and the result was a brilliant blue mass which , on examination under the microscope , proved to contain Egyptian blue .
These experiments , then , seem to settle conclusively the conditions as to temperature for the formation of the blue , showing that , even after raising the mass to the temperature of the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , the Egyptian blue crystallises out at a temperature of 850 ' .
These experiments show that the regrinding and reheating , which must have been the Egyptian practice , and which was also done by Dr. Russell , is not necessary for the formation of the blue , though it seems to be necessary in order to get the whole of the green glass converted into the blue crystalline compound .
The main point of interest , however , revealed by these experiments is the formation of a crystalline silicate under conditions which , the authors believe , have not been formerly recorded .
In the first place , the mass is far below the fusion point of the whole .
If 424 Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
the temperature is high enough , the ultimate result is to i'use the whole mass with the formation of a complex silicate , but at the temperature of 850 ' the quartz is attacked far below its fusing point , and this crystalline double silicate is formed , the mass merely becoming pasty in the process , never reaching true fusion , and forming when cold a frit , which can easily be crushed in a mortar , like the lumps of frit found in the Egyptian furnaces .
The next point revealed , which seems of considerable interest , is the narrow range of temperature within which this crystalline body is formed .
On both sides of the region of temperature the result of the process is merely the formation of an olive-green glass , but within the right range the blue crystals are formed in the olive-green glass magma , disappearing again when the temperature is slightly raised .
The next point to be investigated was the bearing of the proportion of fusion mixture on the result .
The original proportion of fusion mixture given in the formula at the beginning of the paper was taken directly from Dr. Russell 's notebooks , and had been arrived at by him as the result of many experiments .
Our first experiments were made with a view to finding what the effect of the increase of the amount of fusion mixture would be , and therefore a mixture was made up containing : fine sand , 15 ; calcium carbonate , 3'6 ; copper carbonate , 4*3 ; and fusion mixture 6 grm. instead of 2 grm. This was run for some 20 hours at 850 ' , the result being complete fusion into a deep green glass , the quartz practically completely dissolving in the mass .
An intermediate mixture wTas then taken , in which the mass of fusion mixture was reduced to 4 grm. This mixture did not fuse completely at 850 ' into a glass , but was heavily fritted and contained some traces of blue .
It is evident from these experiments that if the amount of fusion mixture is increased much beyond the limits described by Dr. Russell , the copper-lime silicate does not crystallise out of the mass , but remains in solution as a green glass .
The next experiment was in the opposite direction , the mixture being made up in the usual proportions , but containing no fusion mixture at all .
This was run for some hours at 850 ' , the result being that there were indications of a slight attack upon the quartz particles , but the whole mass had refused to frit .
It was then kept for a considerable time at a temperature of 1050 ' , the result being that , after'20 hours at this temperature , the mass was partially fritted , but contained large quantities both of cupric and cuprous oxide , and a certain amount of a yellowish-green glass .
On the top of the crucible a few crystals of Egyptian blue were found .
The mass was then returned to the furnace , and kept at 850 ' for about 48 hours .
On Egyptian Blue .
425 examining it , a certain amount of Egyptian blue was found throughout the mass .
It is evident from this experiment that Egyptian blue can be formed as stated by Eouqu^ without the intervention of soda or potash , and is therefore evidently a compound into which neither soda nor potash enters as an essential ingredient .
A mixture was now prepared in which the amount of fusion mixture was reduced to 1 grm. After heating for 16 hours at 850 ' , the mass was found to be very slightly fritted , and although the quartz particles showed slight signs of being attacked , no blue had been formed .
It was therefore run for some 20 hours at 1000 ' , the result being that the whole mass was flitted , but contained no Egyptian blue .
This mass was then run for 48 hours at 850 ' , the result being the formation of large quantities of blue .
It is therefore evident from these experiments that the formation of the blue does not necessarily depend on the presence of soda or potash salts , but without their presence the mass is so infusible that it is difficult to get the copper , lime , and silica to enter freely into combination .
When the amount of fusion mixture is only 1 grm. , the temperature of 850 ' is not sufficient to cause proper fritting of the mass and the solution of the lime and copper , but by raising the temperature to 1000 ' , the small amount of soda present is compensated for by the additional temperature , with the result that on again heating at 850 ' Egyptian blue is freely formed .
If the amount of fusion mixture is raised to 2 grm. the best conditions are obtained , the temperature of fusion being sufficiently low to enable the mass to be fritted at 850 ' , while at the same time the fusion mixture is not present in sufficient excess to keep the copper-lime silicate in solution , so that it crystallises freely through the mass .
If the amount of fusion mixture is increased much above this , the copper-lime silicate is kept in solution in a fused mass , and no blue is formed .
These experiments then , with those already described dealing with the conditions of temperature , define the -conditions for the formation of the Egyptian blue .
As the Egyptians themselves had no pure soda to use , it seemed of interest to prepare a sample with a soda of the same composition as the Trona which comes from the Egyptian desert .
A sample of soda was therefore made up containing the required impurities in the right proportions .
Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
Analysis of Trona ( probably from Wady Atrun ) .
Given by Klaproth.* Sod .
sesquicarb ... ... . .
32'6 grin .
Water and insoluble omitted .
Sod .
sulphate ... ... ... .
208 " Insoluble not specified in Sod .
chloride ... ... ... .
15-0 " analysis .
The above mixture was introduced in place of the fusion mixture without altering the proportions of the other ingredients .
On running this for about 40 hours at a temperature of 850-860 ' , large quantities of the Egyptian blue were successfully formed .
We have also successfully prepared the blue with potassium sulphate as the flux .
Eor the purpose of analysis , some of the blue frit was taken which had been made in a muffle furnace , and had been re-ground and re-heated two or three times ; 40 grm. were crushed , passed through a 120-mesh sieve , and then more finely ground .
The finely-ground mass was then heated for three hours with aqua regia in order to dissolve out the copper oxide , and washed with water .
After stirring it was found that a good deal of bluish material remained for a long time in suspension .
On examination this proved to contain none of the Egyptian blue , and was therefore rejected .
The dry material , after this rough separation with water , was then mixed with bromoform of specific gravity 2'88 , and treated in a centrifugal machine , After rotation , blue is found at the bottom , and a cake of lighter material at the top , which contains very little of the , blue crystals in spite of a fairly deep colour .
An examination of the heavy residue shows that it consists mainly of blue crystals , with a little isotropic , almost colourless glass .
This glass is found in large quantities in the light material .
To remove the last traces of glass the process was repeated , using a mixture of methylene iodide , and benzene of specific gravity 2'948 .
The material thus separated , on examination under the microscope , proved to be almost perfectly pure .
It contained occasional crystals of blue , which were still united to fragments of quartz , but no glass .
This material was therefore taken for analysis , and two analyses were made by fusion in the usual way with soda .
The figures obtained compare as follows with those given by Fouque .
Fouque states that the substance is a copper-calcium silicate containing no alkali .
This statement we have been able to confirm to the extent that we find it quite possible to prepare the Egyptian blue crystals without the addition of alkali at all .
At the same time , it does not follow that when alkali is present some of the copper , or calcium , is not replaced by the alkali metals within the crystal .
* Lunge , ' Sulphuric Acid and Alkali , ' 1895 , vol. 2 , p. 61 .
Egyptian Blue .
Fouque 's analysis is as follows :\#151 ; Si02 63-7 CaO 14-3 CuO 21-3 Fe203 0-6 99-9 This analysis is , we think , somewhat open to criticism , as it is difficult to understand how , dealing with pure materials , he obtained such a large quantity of iron , especially as we found that there is no iron present at all in the blue that we have made .
The following are the results of two determinations of the silica , copper oxide , and calcium oxide :\#151 ; Si02 ... ... ... 63-4 63*4 CaO ... ... ... ... .
14-38 14*35 CuO ... ... ... . .
19-48 19-58 It will be noted that the figures for silica and calcium oxide agree very closely with those obtained by Fouque , but the percentage of copper is slightly lower .
A fresh portion of the separated sample already described was treated with hydrofluoric acid , with a view to making an estimation of the alkali metals , if they proved to be present , and the results obtained are as follows :\#151 ; K20 ... ... ... . .
1-19 Xa20 ... ... ... .
0-93 The results add up to a total of 99*38 for our first analysis , and 99*45 for the second .
These figures seem to us to make it highly probable that , in the presence of an alkali , some of the copper or calcium is replaced by the alkali metals , and that therefore it is not correct to state that Egyptian blue consists always and entirely of copper , calcium , and silica , but this may be taken as an approximate statement of its composition , which also approximately agrees with the formula given by Fouque\#151 ; Ca0 , Cu0,4Si02 .
In addition , we have determined the two refractive indices of the crystals .
The refractive index of the extraordinary ray is practically the same as that of cassia oil , T605(3 ) , whilst the refractive index of the ordinary ray , determined in a mixture of monobromonaphthalene and quinoline , is 1-635(4 ) .
This gives for the double refraction \amp ; \gt ; \#151 ; e = 0*031 , agreeing exactly with the figure obtained by Fouque .
Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
Thanks to the kindness of Dr. J. J. H. Teall , F.R.S. , we were enabled to examine a sample of the blue made by Fouque , and we found that it was optically identical with our material .
It is , perhaps , of some interest to speculate as to how this blue came to be discovered by the Egyptians , and we think the explanation is to be found in their method of glazing , which has been described by Mr. Burton in his paper on Egyptian Ceramics.* According to Mr. Burton , their copper glaze was somewhat infusible and not suitable for running on earthenware , and it was therefore their custom to carve out of sandstone various beads and other ornamental objects , and then glaze these with a copper glaze which ran easily when in contact with a siliceous body .
As has been shown by these experiments , at the lowest temperature such a glaze would be bluish green , and at a higher temperature olive green , but there would also be a certain intermediate temperature between the two olive greens in which the blue crystals of the silicate would be formed .
It is therefore almost inevitable that in the process of glazing these objects carved out of sandstone , they would occasionally hit upon the temperature at which they got a deep crystalline blue , and this would very naturally lead to the attempt to prepare such a blue as a pigment by replacing the siliceous body by sand .
In fact , one may say that the only change between their method of glazing on carved sandstone objects and the preparation of the blue itself was in replacing the lump of sandstone by sand , and in carefully arriving at the temperature at which crystalline blue would be formed .
It is therefore easy to understand how other races who have developed the art of coloured glazing on earthenware itself have never discovered this double crystalline silicate , and how it was discovered by the Egyptians owing to the peculiar method of glazing on sandstone itself , which they seem to have been familiar with from the earliest times .
The special conditions under which this crystalline silicate has been formed seem to us to contain certain elements of novelty .
They are doubtless similar to those obtaining in the devitrification which takes place when a glass is kept at a temperature below fusion for a considerable length of time , and also to the conditions present in forming Portland cement .
Although it is evident that the mass contains at the temperature of 850 ' a certain amount of glass in a state of fusion , yet the whole mass is never fused and is therefore not disturbed in the coarse relationship of its various parts , while the process by which the blue is formed seems to be due to the fused glass acting as a carrier , dissolving the lime , copper oxide , and quartz , enabling * ' Journ. Soc. Arts , ' 3rd May , 1912 , No. 3102 .
Egyptian Blue .
429 them to combine and crystallise out , and then proceeding to dissolve further portions of these constituents .
If the mass is reground and reheated several times , the amount of glass that can be discovered in the finished product becomes very small , the green glass completely disappearing , and it is conceivable that if a sufficient length of time had been given to the process , a very minute quantity of glass would be sufficient to act as a solvent and a carrier , and so produce ultimately a large quantity of crystalline silicate throughout the mass , while this glass itself might possibly devitrify at a lower temperature .
The final result , therefore , would be that the arrangement in bulk of the mass of material would remain the same , that the temperature would never have been raised beyond the moderate heat necessary to fuse the low fusion glass , that a large amount of crystalline silicates would result , and that the amount of glass necessary to produce this would be very small in quantity .
These special conditions , therefore , for forming crystalline silicate seem to us worthy of further investigation , as they possibly have some bearing on the conditions which have occurred in Nature in certain cases .
In conclusion , we have thought these results worth publishing , not only because of their archaeological interest , but because it is highly probable that there are many other crystalline silicates which can be formed in presence of excess of unfused quartz at comparatively low temperatures under these special conditions .
# I

