A chemical Analysis of some Calamines .
By James Smithson , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 18 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 12 .
] The uncertainty that has till now prevailed concerning the nature andX composition of the -ores of zinc called Calamine , has induced our author to enter upon the investigation now before us .
In the first part of the paper , we find the analysis of four kinds of calamines ; the first from Bleyberg in Carinthia , the second from the Mendip hills in Somersetshire , the third from Derbyshire , and the fourth an electrical calamine from Regbania in Hungary .
Referring to the paper for the detail of the four processes there circumstantially described , we must content ourselves with reciting here the results deduced from each of them .
1000 parts of the Bleyberg ore were found to consist of 714 calx of zinc , 135 carbonic acid , and 151 water .
Some carbonate of lime and lead were likewise found in it ; but these appeared to be mere accidental admixtures , and in too smaii quantities to deserve notice .
1000 parts of the Mendip ore consisted of 648 parts of calx of zinc , and 352 of carbonic acid , and yielded no water .
In the Derbyshire ore were found 652 of calx of zinc , and 348 of carbonic acid .
And in the Hungarian ore , 683 of calx of zinc , 250 of quartz , 44 water : and here there moreover appeared a loss of 23 , owing , no doubt , to some defect in the manipulation .
The water was by no means considered as an essential part of this ore ; and hence the proportions of the two other ingredients were as 739 to 261 .
In a second part of the paper , the author communicates some observations to which he was led by the uncertainty that still prevails in our chemical researches , and the want of uniformity in the results of the multitude of experiments that are daily made , which appear to him to clash essentially with the simplicity of nature .
When we consider , he says , the simplicity found in all those parts of nature which are sufficiently known to come within the reach of our observation , it appears improbable that , the constituent parts of bodies , which we consider as endowed with reciprocal affinities , should be so loosely united as is often indicated by the most accurate analysis .
Hence he is led to conjecture , that in all chemical combinations , those ingredients which are really essential to the compound are but few in number ; that they are by nature certain aliquot parts of the whole compound ; and that as the aliquot may be expressed by fractions , the denomination of these fractions will always be a small quantity , perhaps never exceeding the number 5 .
The author applies this theory to the above-mentioned experiments on calamine ; and finding that , with a trifling correction , the results coincide with this theory , he entertains sanguine hopes that future investigations will finally establish it .
If so , he thinks that the discovery will introduce in chemistry a rigorous accuracy , of which it has not hitherto been thought susceptible ; that it will.enable the chemist , like the geometrician , to rectify by calculation the unavoidable errors of his manual operations , and authlorize him to eliminate from the essential elements of a compound those products of an analysis whose quantity cannot be reduced to any admissible proportion , and may therefore be considered as extraneous .
The author , at the close of his paper , controverts the opinion of those who think that crystallization requires a previous state of solution in the matter crystallized ; and contends , that as long as any quantity of fluid is present in a solution , no crystallization can possibly take place .

