Torpedo marmorata .
Thermal .
I\T .
" The Electromotive Properties of the Electrical Organ of Torpedo marmorata .
" By FRANCIS GoTCH , B.A. , B.Sc. London , M.A. Oxon .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) After an introduction , in which the author sets forth the present state of knowledge with reference to the electromotive properties of the electrical organ of Torpedo , he gives an account of his own experimental investigations in three sections .
The first section relates to the nature of the changes produced in the electrical organ by mechanical injury and by heat , and the relation of these changes to those which manifest themselves under similar conditions in muscle and nerve , a subject which has not hitherto been inquired into .
In the second , the duration and the character of the response of the electrical organ to stimulation of its nerve are investigated for the first time by means of the rheotome and galvanometer .
In the experiments which are recorded in the third section , the author has entered on the examination of the after-effects which are produced in the organ by the passage through it of voltaic or induction currents , a subject which has been recently investigated by du Bois-Reymond .
The author is led by his experiments to believe that the physiological effects produced in the organ by injury , by the passage of currents , and by the stimulation of the electrical nerve , are , notwithstanding that they differ so widely from each other in distribution , duration , and intensity , all phenomena of excitation .
V. " On Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. Communicated by Sir W. Thomson , Knt. , F.R.S. Received April 23,1887 .
( Abstract ) The investigation , of which a detailed account is given in the paper , was commenced in 1883 , and some preliminary results were communicated to the Royal Society in June , 1884 .
The radiating body used up to the present time has been a metallic wire ; * and the general method of experimenting consists in keeping * I propose , however , as soon as may be , to repeat and extend the experiment of D. Macfarlane ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' vol. 20,1872 ) on radiation from metallic globes .

