V. " On certain Developable Surfaces .
" By A. CAYLEY , lEsq .
Received October 25 , 1862 .
Read November 27 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) If U==0 be the equation of a developable surface , or say a develop , able , then the hessian I-IU vanishes , not identically , but only by virtue of the equation U=0 of the surface ; that is , HUE contains U as a factor , or we may write IIU=U .
PU .
The function PU , which for the developable replaces , as it were , the hessian IIU , is termed the prohessian ; and since , if r be the order of U , the order of IHU is 4r-8 , we have 3r-8 for the order of the prohessian .
If r=4 , the order of the prohessian is also 4 ; and in fact , as is known , the prohessian is in this case =U .
The prohessian is considered , but not in much detail , in Dr. Salmon 's ' Geometry of Three Dimensions ' ( 1862 ) , pp. 338 and 426 : the theorem given in the latter place is almost all that is known on the subject .
I call to mind that the tangent plane along a generating line of the developable meets the developable in this line taken two times , and in a curve of the order r--2 ; the line touches the curve at the point of contact , or say the ineunt , on the edge of regression , and besides meets it in r-4 points , The ineunt , taken three times , and the r-4 points form a linear system of the order r1 , and the hessian of this system ( considered as a curve of one dimension , or a binary quantic ) is a linear system of 2r6 points ; viz. it is composed of the ineunt taken four times , and of 2r-10 other points .
This being so , the theorem is , that the generating line meets the prohessian in the ineunt taken six times , in the r-4 points , and in the 2r--10 points ( 6+r-4+2r-10 =3r-8 ) ; it is assumed that r=5 at least .
The developables which first present themselves are those which are the envelopes of a plane ( , b , ... .Xt , 1)=o , where t is an arbitrary parameter , and the coefficients ( a , 6 , ... ) are linear functions of the coordinates ; the equation of the developable is diset ( a , b. t , l ) =O the discriminant being taken in regard to the parameter t. Such developable is in general of the order 2n-2 ; but if the second coefficient b is ==0 , or , more generally , if it is a mere numerical multiple of a , then a will divide out from the equation , and we have a developable of the order 2n -3 : the like property , of course , exists in regard to the last but one , and the last , of the coefficients of the function .
We thus obtain developables of the orders 4 , 5 , and 6 sufficiently simple to allow of the actual calculation of their prohessians .
And the chief object of the present memoir is to exhibit these prohessians ; but the memoir contains some other researches in relation to the developables in question .

