Researches on Tutracin , an Animal Pigment containing Copper .
By A. H. CHURCH , MI .
A. Oxon .
, Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Agricultural College , Cirencester .
Communicated by Dr. W. A. MILLER , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Received May 4 , -Read May 27 , 1869 .
Origin of the present Inquiry.-The stability of the colours which the feathers of birds display has been repeatedly proved .
These colours are due either to what we may call the optical character of the surfaces of the web , or to the presence in it of definite colouring-matters .
These pigments may be opaque like enamel , or translucent and permeating the substance of the barbs ; they have been as yet but very imperfectly studied .
In a few instances only have they been actually separated from the structures containing them , while in no case have they been completely examined from a chemical point of view .
So far as I can learn , we have no exact information as to the amount and the deportment , chemical constitution and reactions of those substances which M. BOG-DANOW " , some twelve years ago , succeeded in extracting from the feathers of many birds , and notably from the red feathers of Calurus auriceps and Catinga ccerulea .
Before giving an outline of my own experiments in this direction , I will mention the particular circumstances which led to the prosecution of the present research .
A few years ago Mr. W. B. TEGETMEIER pointed out to me a singular property of the red feathers of the bird called the Touracou , or Plantain-eater .
These feathers yield up a part of their colouring-matter to pure water , a beautiful rose-coloured solution being thus obtained .
Mr. TEGETMEIER'S attention had been drawn to this fact , and he at once perceived that it was worthy of fuller investigation than it had already received .
On further inquiry , I find that Mr. WARD of Wigmore Street had noticed the evanescence and solubility of the red tint in question many years ago , and that other observers , within the last few years , have even succeeded in staining pieces of paper with the red solution which these feathers yield .
In order that it .
may be seen what was the position of the inquiry when I commenced in 1866 my experiments on this subject , I may cite the authority of some private letters which have been placed at my disposal through the courtesy of Mr. HUGH OWEN .
These letters were written by Dr. BENJAMIN HIND , principal Medical Officer on the Military Staff at Bathurst , on the Gambia .
In one of his letters , dated May 1865 , Dr. HIND enclosed a piece of paper stained with the red pigment of 1 inch of a feather of the violet Plantain-eater , Musophaga violacea .
He says that the moment soap touches the feathers the colour runs , but that it is difficult of extraction with pure water .
But he adds , " the birds I sent home washed themselves * Comp. Rend .
xlv .
p. 688 ; xlvi .
p. 780 .
nearly white in the water left for them to drink !
" In a subsequent letter Dr. HIND gives some details concerning the different species of Plantain-eaters , and says , with reference to the feathers he had previously sent to England , " all the feathers sent were from the same bird and grew in this house .
" This fact negatives any idea of an artificial dye being present in the feathers , and is further referred to in the following memoranda by Mr. HUGH OWEN:- " A pair of violet Plantain-eaters from the Gambia were sent over to a friend in Ireland by Dr. HIND .
The birds arrived in excellent condition , and were speedily provided with ample space and all appliacpes for cleanliness .
For a while this splendid plumage , the deep crimson patch on the dark violet of the wing , excited continual admiration .
After a day or two the crimson faded ; in a few more the colour changed to a pale and dirty grey .
The disappointed owner wrote an account of this change to Bathurst , concluding , of course , that the natives had imposed on Dr. HIND by selling him a pair of painted birds : this , however , was impossible ; there was no mistaking the peculiar and shield-shaped bill or the legs of the Musophaga .
Whatever change had taken place , the birds were genuine Touracous .
Without delay another bird was procured , so young as to be only partly fledged , the wings only in the pinfeathers .
As soon as these were sufficiently grown , the experiment was repeated , and the colour found to be inconstant and capable of extraction .
" The data already given , and many others with which I have been subsequently furnished , incontestably prove the normal presence , in some of the feathers of the Plantain-eater , of a red pigment soluble in water , and still more readily dissolved by soap .
I may now give my own results as to the preparation and physical and chemical properties of this new red animal pigment .
Occurrence of Turacin.-The birds from which I have extracted this colouringmatter general .y go under the designation of Plantain-eaters , from their favourite food .
It would appear that the native name for them is represented by the word Touraco ; while the Dutch speak of one of the species as the Cape Lowry .
These birds are entirely African .
They belong to the Order Scansores and the Family Musophagidse ; they are closely related to the Cuculidse or Cuckoos .
There are three genera of Touracos--Musophaga , Corythaix , and Schizorhis-altogether including eighteen species .
The red pigment occurs in twelve only of these birds , namely , in both the known species of Musophi.qa and in ten out of the eleven species of Corythaix .
The eleventh species of Corythaix , in which it does not occur , is the Giant Touracou , which diverges in many other particulars from its brethren .
The following is a list of the species from which I have actually obtained the pigment ; in the others , named above , I have merely recognized its presence by optical means : Musophaga violacea .
Corythaix ( Turacus ) porphyreolopha .
erythrolopha .
albocristata .
The plumage of these birds does not present any great general brilliancy .
The red pigment occurs in the primary and secondary pinion-feathers , from twelve to fifteen of which have either a crimson blotch upon them , or are almost wholly coloured .
I propose the name Turacin for the red pigment which the Touracou ( Turacus ) contains .
In order to extract this pigment the plan finally adopted was as follows : Isolation of Turacin.-The barbs constituting the red part of the web are stripped from the shaft of the feathers , placed in a beaker , and washed with ether and then with alcohol .
This treatment removes the grease and adhering dirt very effectually .
When the red barbs thus washed have been dried between folds of filter-paper , they are placed in a cold very dilute solution of pure caustic soda , a solution containing one part of soda in a thousand of distilled water being quite strong enough .
Ammonia , potash , or the carbonated alkalies may be used in lieu of caustic soda .
The mass is stirred at intervals for fifteen minutes , or thereabouts ; the crimson solution is poured off and pure water added ; by successive treatment of the barbs with fresh portions of dilute alkali and pure water , the whole of the crimson pigment is obtained in solution , the residual barbs becoming white or pinky grey .
All the coloured liquors having been filtered and mixed , they are poured in a slender stream , with constant stirring , into dilute hydrochloric acid , made by mixing one part of the pure commercial acid with four parts of water .
When the red precipitate of the pigment thus coagulated and rendered insoluble has settled , the supernatant liquid is decanted off and the red matter thrown upon a wetted filter and washed with water .
( A still better plan is to employ a decanting siphon filter for the separation and washing of the precipitate .
) The liquid comes through quite colourless , until there is no longer a trace of acid left in the pigment on the filter .
When this occurs , the residue is washed with water containing a few drops of acetic acid to the pint , and then syringed out of the filter into an evaporating-basin and dried at a gentle heat .
The dry pigment is next to be washed with a mixture of alcohol and ether , and once more dried .
It is now perfectly pure and yet unchanged , so far as I have examined it , Properties of Turacin.-Prepared as above described , turacin occurs in scales which have a deep violet-purple colour by reflected light , and showing a crimson tint when seen in small fragments by transmitted light .
Its powder is of a dull crimson tint .
It has not been obtained in a crystalline form .
It is very slightly soluble in pure water , giving a pale rose-pink solution .
The presence of acids and salts renders water incapable of dissolving it .
It is not soluble in pure alcohol or ether .
In alkaline liquids it immediately dissolves , forming solutions which show a bluer tint than the original pigment .
In fact turacin is a very delicate test for the alkalies .
For example , perfectly pure barium hydrate in solution does not dissolve turacin ; but let a minute trace of soda exist , as it often does , in the baryta-solution , and then the liquid will become readily tinted if shaken up with a fragment of turacin .
Very strong solutions of the caustic alkalies dissolve the pigment , but at the same time it suffers a partial decomposition , evidenced by an odour resembling that of certain bases of the pyridine series , which it then evolves .
Fuming nitric acid dissolves it with a deep brown tint , destroying it ; in oil of vitriol it is soluble , but in all probability with partial alteration .
Turacin seems to have slightly acid properties ; though it dissolves very freely in carbonated alkalies , caustic alkalies are still more effective .
Turacin by long exposure to air and moisture , or by continued ebullition with water or alkaline liquids , acquires a colour closely resembling that of chlorophyll .
Spectrum of Turacin.-If a piece of the red web of a Touracou 's feather be examined with a prism , two black bands will be at once perceived about the lines D and E of the solar spectrum ( fig. 1 ) .
These bands correspond to some extent with those of STOKES'S red cruorin , but it will be seen ( fig. 2 ) that they are not identical .
When an alkaline solution of turacin is similarly examined , the bands ( fig. 3 ) are shifted further from D , Fig. 1 .
Spectrum of Turacin as it exists in the feathers .
3E bDc A. IIli IKE ILFig .
2 ... ... ... i ... ... I..I ... IID tIali ; 'I ; iI 'l IIg Spectrum of Cruorin .
Spectrum of Turacin 1-l GE3 D CBnA in soda .
in soda after long boiling .
j i::11 : N -i ... .
I ii !
11 .
--li .
DAa 3 ? ?
7DA_lA Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
while the blue region of the spectrum is less shaded than it is with the original red of the feather , or with coagulated turacin precipitated by an acid .
When the alkaline solution of turacin is dilute , the band near E is very weak ; but when a strong solution is employed , both bands became equally intense , and finally almost coalesce , nearly obliterating the space in the green between them .
No results have attended my attempts to produce in turacin , by ferrous or stannous salts , a reduction similar to that obtained in red cruorin by the same means .
Coagulated turacin in water , and more particularly the web of the red feathers , present by transmitted light very nearly the appearance of diluted arterial blood to the eye .
The change in the colour of turacin produced by exposure to air and moisture may be traced in the spectrum of the altered substance ( fig. 4 ) .
The specimen examined had been prepared by long boiling of a soda-solution of the original pigment , but it probably contained some unaltered turacin .
In this modified spectrum a third black band has made its appearance in the orange , between D and C. Composition of turacin.-The volatile constituents of turacin are carbon , hydrogen , nitrogen , and oxygen , in what proportions I shall presently state .
It contains no sulphur .
The ash or non-volatile constituents of the new pigment have also been submitted to a careful examination .
Turacin may be dried at 100 ?
without change ; but at a considerably higher temperature its surface-colour alters , becoming bluish and then a dull green .
Afterwards it shows some symptoms of fusion , giving off a violet vapour resembling that of iodine ; it finally burns away , leaving a greyish-black ash .
The close resemblance of turacin to cruorin induced me to test at once , in the ash of the new colouring-matter , for iron , the characteristic metallic constituent of the pigment of the blood , and of its derivatives .
The ash of turacin was dissolved in nitric acid , excess of sodic acetate added , and then potassic ferrocyanide .
Much to my surprise , instead of the deep blue ferric ferrocyanide , a copious purple-brown precipitate of cupric ferrocyanide made its appearance .
Not only was copper present , but there was so much of it that it could be detected by its spectrum when the ash of a few red barbs of the original feathers was moistened with strong hydrochloric acid and exposed on a platinumwire to the flame of a Bunsen burner .
This detection of copper in the colouring-matter was so extraordinary that it became necessary to sift the matter thoroughly .
The idea that a preservative solution containing copper had been used in dressing the skins of the birds suggested itself ; but this notion was soon proved untenable ; for there is no copper in any part of the skin save in the red feathers , and in these feathers themselves the presence of copper is strictly confined to the red barbs .
Even barbs that are partly red and partly black contain no copper in their black parts , and abundance in those which are red .
Moreover , as acids do not wash out the copper from the feathers , and the most severe chemical treatment , short of actual destruction of the pigment itself , does not remove it from , the prepared and pure turacin , it is evident that this metal , copper , is an integral constituent of the substance under investigation .
Some idea may be formed of the intimate union subsisting between the copper and the other constituent elements of the colouring-matter , from the observation that turacin , dissolved in oil of vitriol and reprecipitated by excess of sodium acetate , suffers by this treatment no loss of copper .
The different parts of eighty-seven red feathers of Corythaix albocristata have been carefully examined .
From the red barbs of these a considerable quantity of turacin was prepared , while their shafts were submitted to special dissection .
The clear horny parts , or quills proper , at the base of each feather were cut off and separately incinerated ; so also were the upper parts or shafts of the eighty-seven feathers , and , in like manner , the membranes found in the quills .
There was no copper in the ash of the eighty-seven quills , and none in that of the membranes ; but a very minute trace was recognized in the ash of the shafts .
There is therefore no possibility of any mistake having occurred as to the copper present in the red parts of the feathers of the Touracous .
It cannot have been introduced in any preservative solution , for it would then be found in the black parts of the web as well as in the red ; it cannot be an artificial dye , for birds bred in captivity acquire the cupreous pigment naturally* ; it cannot be an accidental and unnecessary constituent of the red colouring-matter ; for not only is it impossible to remove this metal from the pigment , but the proportion of copper present in the turacin obtained from different species of Plantain-eaters remains constant .
I will now state what this proportion is .
In my earliest analysis of turacin I employed a specimen which had been precipitated by acetic acid from the alkaline extract of the feathers .
Now , on burning some turaciii thus prepared , I found that it left a very considerable amount of ash , nearly twice as much as in subsequent experiments where hydrochloric acid had been used as the precipitant of the pigment .
Some calcium , magnesium , and ferric phosphates had obstinately adhered to the precipitated turacin , and increased to a marked extent its normal quantity of ash .
The same salts accompany the colouring-matter of blood with similar tenacity .
But it was soon found that the new pigment might be obtained in such a state of purity as to leave no other ash when burnt than nearly pure cupric oxide , the 7 per cent. of phosphates &amp;c. having been previously removed by the action of hydrochloric acid without any change in the turacin itself .
In the analyses which follow , turacin precipitated by hydrochloric acid was employed ; the amount of ash other than cupric oxide will be seen to amount to about 1 per cent. only of the substance analyzed .
I may add that even this residual impurity may be completely removed by the further employment of hydrochloric acid .
Analysis .
Turacin taken .
Total ash .
Ash per cent. i. ' 1293 grm. -0108 8-35 ii .
-0558 *0048 8s60 Turacin taken , corrected for CuO obtained .
CuO per cent. Cu per cent. ash .
iii .
-125 -0090 7-20 5*75 iv .
-06 ] -0045 7*38 5-89 v. -053 -0040 7*55 6'03 vi .
-1553 -0115 7*41 5'91 Some difficulty was experienced in determining the nitrogen contained in turacin .
The first combustions were made with soda-lime ; but attempts to obtain , with the ammonia evolved , a satisfactory platinum-salt were unsuccessful .
the NH3 is accompanied by a substance which reduces the platinic chloride .
More satisfactory and accordant results were secured when the ammonia evolved by turacin on combustion with soda-lime was received into standard sulphuric acid , and the amount of this acid thereby neutralized ascertained by a standard soda-solution .
Finally , however , a modification of DUMAS'S absolute method of determining nitrogen as gas was adopted : the method was as follows .
The substance , dried at 100 ?
, was burnt with cupric oxide in a combustion-tube 2 feet in length , in which was contained , at its remote end , 6*5 grms. of pure sodium bicarbonate .
Next to this was a layer of cupric oxide , then the mixture of turacin and PIGMENiT CONTAINING COPPER .
633 cupric oxide .
The rest of the tube was occupied by cupric oxide and 6 inches of clean reduced copper turnings .
After clearing the apparatus of air by decomposing part of the sodium bicarbonate , the combination was commenced , the gases being delivered into a eudiometer standing over mercury , and partly occupied with a layer of caustic potash solution .
The combustion finished , the tube was swept out by decomposing the remainder of the bicarbonate .
The eudiometer and its contents were transferred to a vessel of water , and the pure nitrogen gas it contained read off with the customary precautions .
The following results were obtained in three analyses : Analysis ... ... . .
vii .
viii .
ix .
Observed volume ... . .
476 millims. 53'8 millims. 50'2 millims. Volume corrected for calibre and[ 47'14 millims. 53-51 millims. 49'8 millims. meniscus ... ... Temperature of gas ... .
7 ?
0 C. 8 ?
'1 C. 13 ?
00 C. Barometer ... ... 7390 millims. 733*75 millims. 753'6 millims. Temperature of barometer..13'3 C. 16 ?
01 C. 15 ?
'0 C. Water-column ... ... 4979 millims. 495-2 millims. 495-3 millims. The observed volume of nitrogen was also corrected for the tension of aqueous vapour , and the barometric reading for expansion of the brass scale .
The usual formula of calculation was adopted , v'=-v -13-596 -2 760(1 + 00366t ?
) where v represents the observed volume corrected for calibre and meniscus .
b the height of the barometer corrected for expansion .
b1 the water-column in the eudiometer .
b2 the tension of aqueous vapour at t ?
C. , in millims. t ?
the temperature of gas .
v ' the true volume of gas in millims. ( 1 millim. ='1786 cub. centim. ) The following are the final results of the three nitrogen-determinations , vii .
, viii .
, ix.:vii .
viii .
ix .
Turacin taken ... ... 1445 '1665 '1604 Turacin , corrected for ash. .
*1431 -1648 -1588 Volume of nitrogen in cub. centims. at 0 ?
C. 7485 8385 7864 and 760 millims. bar. .
Weight of this nitrogen. .
-00939 -01052 '009866 Percentage of nitrogen ... .
6-56 6-38 621 The determinations of carbon and hydrogen in turacin were made by burning the substance with cupric oxide containing some lead chromate , reduced copper turnings being placed in the anterior part of the tube .
Every precaution was taken in these combustions to ensure trustworthy results , especially as , on account of its rarity and costliness , the amount of material burnt was necessarily small .
Analysis ... . .
x. xi .
xii .
Turacin taken ... 1040 -1400 -0835 Turacin , corrected for ash .
*1030 -1385 -0825 CO2 obtained ... . .
2065 -2780 -1635 H20 obtained ... -0670 -0390 Percentage of carbon..54-66 54-75 54'06 Percentage of hydrogen .
-538 5'21 I have gathered into the following Table the percentage results analyses above given : Carbon .
Hydrogen .
Copper .
Nitrogen .
54-66 ... ... 5'75 6'56 54-75 5-38 5'89 6'38 54-06 5'21 6'03 6'21 54-49 5-06 5'91 54-49 522 5-90 638 ). .
' ... .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Xiii .
'1937 '1916 '3828 '0870 54-49 5'06 deduced from the If , however , we exclude the low percentage of carbon ( 54-06 ) obtained in one case where the amount of substance taken was insufficient to.secure an accurate result , we may deduce the following mean percentages as representing the centesimal composition of turacin dried at 100 C.:Carbon ... Hydrogen .
Copper. .
Nitrogen Oxygen ( diff. ) ... . .
54-63 ... 5'22 ... 5'90 6 38 27-87 100-00 If we assume that one molecule of turacin contains one atom of copper , we are led to conclude that the relations between its constituents may possibly be represented by the empirical formula C50 H56 Cu N5 019 , which demands the following percentages : Theory .
C50 H56 Cu= N5= O19 = 600'0 56'0 63-5 70'0 304'0 1093-5 54-87 5-12 5-81 6'39 27-81 100-00 Experiment .
( Mean .
) 54-63 5'22 5'90 6'38 27-87 100-00 do not wish to attach great importance to the above formula for turacin ; but it certainly represents the analytical results closely , and possesses , in its atom of copper , an element of control similar to that of a metallic salt .
In its permanence and its constancy of composition , turacin is separated widely from complex bodies like the albuminoids , which in many particulars it resembles ; for it must be here noted that the analyses above given have been made with different specimens of turacin-some with specimens from Musophaga violacea , but in most instances with the pigment from the Corythaix albocristata , or C. porphyreolopha .
Notwithstanding this diversity of origin , and certain changes in the modes of preparation , the analytical results have been remarkably concordant .
Affinities of Turacin .
In its colour , in its absorption-spectrum , and in some of its other characters , turacin corresponds closely with the scarlet cruorin of blood , yet it contains no iron , or , at most , an inappreciable trace of this metal .
Iron , however , exists to the extent of between 6 and 7 per cent. in haematin , the chief derived colouringmatter obtained from blood , and is doubtless a constituent of the original cruorin ; yet if , in turacin , the iron of cruorin is replaced by copper , there are other and wider differences of composition and deportment between the two pigments , which prevent us from regarding turacin as a copper cruorin .
Moreover turacin does not seem to occur in corpuscles , but to be homogeneously distributed in the barbs , barbules , and crochets of the red feathers in which it occurs .
Turacin seems to characterize the closely allied genera Musophaga and Corythaix .
These birds , though with the other Touracous distinctive of the African Ornis , are not common ; and in consequence the supply of turacin for experimental purposes is very limited .
I have not detected it in any of the other red-plumaged birds which I have examined .
The quantity of turacin in a single bird is small .
It is most abundant at the pairingseason , and the bridal plumage of a Corythaix albocristata generally yields from two to three grains of the pigment .
One bird , then , may contain in the colouring-matter of its wings nearly '2 of a grain of metallic copper .
Turacin is the first animal or vegetable pigment containing copper as an essential constituent which has hitherto been isolated ; yet traces of copper have been repeatedly found in both animals and plants .
It was detected by HARLEN in the blood of certain Ascidia and Cephalopoda .
It occurs in Limulus cyclops , Cancer pagurus , Acanthias zezs , and Conger vulgaris , its quantity being in inverse ratio to the quantity of iron present .
The blood of Ielix pomatia contains much copper , the part of the ash insoluble in water yielding 2'57 per cent. Many chemists have detected minute traces of copper in human blood ; and twenty years ago DESCHAMPS arrived at the conclusion that it is normally contained in the blood of man and animals .
ODLING and DUPRT have indeed subsequently detected copper in flour , straw , hay , meat , eggs , cheese , and other articles of food .
It has been supposed that the copper detected in some of these substances has been introduced in the course of analysis by the use of brass burners and retort rings ; but , these in most cases are a purely imaginary source of error .
It is not difficult to perceive whence the Touracous derive the copper which their red feathers contain ; and I have actually succeeded in obtaining unmistakable indications of copper from the ash of three fruits of a plantain , the common VMusa sapientum .
There is , of course , still room for experiment and further observation in this direction .
Researches as to the source of copper whence vegetables assimilate it , the occurrence of ores of copper near the habitats of the Touracous , and its detection in the articles of food supplied to these birds when kept in captivity will doubtless lead to interesting results .
The whole subject of the occurrence of copper in animal products is fraught with physiological as well as chemical interest .
In conclusion I must express my obligation for the assistance afforded me , during the progress of the present inquiry , by those friends whose names I have already mentioned , and by others who have rendered me special aid .
To Dr. J. HI .
GLADSTONE I am indebted for the drawins of specra which accompany this paper ; to PHILIP COURT , Esq. , of Port Elizabeth , for an ample supply of Touracous when the stores of the London naturalhistory dealers were exhausted ; and , especially , to my assistant , Mr. B. J. GROSJEAN , for the laborious and conscientious care with which he has executed nearly the whole of the analytical work involved in the present research .

