Hydraulic Investigations , subservient to an intended Croonian Lecture on the Motion of the Blood .
By Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read May 5 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 164 .
] In the present inquiry , Dr. Young undertakes to investigate minutely and comprehensively the motion of fluids in pipes as affected by friction ; the resistance occasioned by flexure , the laws of propagation of impulses through fluids contained in elastic tubes , the magnitudes of pulsations in conical vessels , and the effect of progressive contraction along a canal ; the physiological application of the results being reserved for a future opportunity .
In the first section the friction and discharge of fluids through pipes are considered ; and the author assents to the encomiums bestowed on Mr. Dubuat , by Professor Robison , and other late authors on hydraulics , for his skill in adapting a formula to express the results of numerous experiments on this subject .
But since the form of his expressions is not so convenient for practice as might be wished , and fails altogether in its application to extreme cases , Dr. Young has by approximation arrived at a formula , which appears to agree fully as well as Dubuat 's with Dubuat 's own experiments , which accords better with those of Gerstner , and extends also with equal accuracy to all extreme cases in which the former was erroneous .
In considering the velocities of water flowing through pipes , the friction appeared to consist of two parts , one of which is most apparent in small tubes , and varies as the velocity simply , and the other as the square of the velocity .
In order to show the agreement of Dr. Young 's formulae with the results of experiments , a table is formed containing forty experiments , taken from Dubuat and CGerstner , with some of his own , the results of which are compared with the velocities calculated according to the formulae of Dubuat and of the author .
The next section treats of the resistance occasioned by flexure of the channel .
In this case Dubuat directs the squares of the sines of the angles of flexure to be added together and multiplied by the square of the velocity , and considers the quantity thus obtained proportional to the height necessary for overcoming the resistance .
But since the magnitude of this quantity is evidently dependent on the number of parts into which the angle is arbitrarily divided , the author prefers attending merely to the aggregate angle of flexure as expressed in degrees to which the resistance is proportional , but varies also inversely as the radii of curvature , *or more nearly as that power of the radius which is expressed by 3 .
A table which follows shows the comparative correctness of the author 's formula with that of Dubuat .
Dr. Young next considers the propagation of impulses through tubes , the elasticity of which supplies the want of elasticity of the fluid contained , and admits the same mode of reasoning that is employed in the case of elastic fluids or solids ; for if the elastic force of the tube be as the increase of its circumference , a certain finite height may be assigned , which would cause infinite extension , and which may be called the modular column .
The velocity of an impulse at any point will be equal to half that which is due to the height of this point above the base of such a column , and hence the time of ascent of an impulse will be twice as great as that of a falling body ; and if the pipe be inclined , the ascent of an impulse will bear the same relation to that of a body moving along an inclined plane .
The magnitude of diverging pulsations is next examined , and the conclusions of Euler , Lagrange , and Bernouilli , who have demonstrated that the velocity of each particle of an elastic fluid is as its distance from the centre of impulse , are supported by a new method of considering the subject .
When a wave is reflected from two surfaces distinctly opposed to each other , they evidently sustain equal pressures ; and if to one of these surfaces two others be opposed converging at the acute angle , the wave will be elevated higher as it approaches the angle ; and if the height be supposed in the inverse subduplicate ratio of the corresponding subtense of the angle , the pressure will then be equal to that upon the single surface opposed : and hence is an additional reason for inferring , that in all transmissions of impulses the intensity is in the inverse subduplicate ratio of the:extent of parts collaterally affected , and this in conformity to the law of the ascending force ; but in the case of intersecting waves , there is observed to be a paradoxical deviation , which is deserving of further consideration .
From considering the effect of bodies moving along an open canal , the author infers , that by means of a contraction moving progressively along an elastic pipe , the quantity of fluid impelled will be very

