214 Dr. A. D. Waller .
Qalvanometric more likely to be useful in connection with military exercises than if applied to industrial labour .
( 2 ) No law connecting heat production and work performance can be properly formulated until the range of experimental observations under uniform conditions has been carried below the starting point of existing records .
It is desirable to define muscular efficiency more strictly than has been usual , and it is possible that the results of Macdonald which the present extended analysis of Benedict and Catheart 's data verifies , are open to more than one interpretation .
The Galvanometric Measurement of " Emotive " Physiological Changes .
By A. D. Waller , M F.R.S. ( Received October 26 , 1917 .
) Object.\#151 ; The object of these experiments was to determine whether or noin the absence of the ordinary visible signs of emotion ( muscular , secretory , etc. ) , electrical signs of emotive discharges are demonstrable by galvanometer .
Affirmative results reported by previous observers* have not , to my mind , fully established the reality of the ground fact , independently of the slight and ordinarily insensible muscular movements that can be perceived by a thought reader or recorded by suitable apparatus , and , as a first step in the inquiry , I thought it necessary to take simultaneous records of galvanometric and muscular movements .
The following communication deals only with the large and sudden electrical responses that are unmistakeably independent of muscular contraction .
The smaller and more gradual fluctuations of more debatable nature will be dealt with in a future communication .
For the present state of the subject it is , in my opinion , necessary , in the first instance , to establish as clearly as possible the chief actual facts by actual demonstration .
* Veraguth , ' Das Psychogalvaniscbe Reflexphenomen , " Berlin , 1909 .
Petersen and Jung , ' Psychophysical Investigations with the Galvanometer and Pneumograph in Normal and Insane Individuals .
' Goldsheider , " Der sogenannte psycho-galvanische Reflex und seine physikalischchemische Deutung , " * Pfluger 's Archiv , ' vol. 162 , p. 4891 ( 1915 ) .
Measurement of " Emotive " Physiological Changes .
215 For this purpose there were projected upon the screen:\#151 ; 1 .
On the upper scale the galvanometer spot , arranged to move to the 4- side with increased electrical conductivity due to emotional excitement ( and returning to the \#151 ; side with diminishing conductivity accompanying the subsidence of excitement ) .
2 .
On the lower scale the shadow of a delicate myograph to show the fluctuations of muscular contraction .
For the purpose of the demonstration , strong ( disagreeable ) stimuli are used , viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
An unexpected loud sound ( motor horn ) .
2 .
An expected burn ( lighted match under hand , the striking of the match being , if possible , utilised as the warning signal ) .
3 .
A disagreeable pungent smell , under control of subject .
4 .
A painful thought , in some degree under control of subject .
Method.\#151 ; Simultaneous photographic records of the movements and of the electrical resistance ( skin ) are taken from the extremities ( hands and feet ) of a subject as quiescent as possible .
The subject reclines in an armchair reading an unexciting book , and often becomes somnolent ; a stimulus calculated to arouse " emotion " is now made and signalled on the records .
The muscle recorder is of sufficient delicacy to show the pulse , and to respond to the slightest unconscious movement .
The electrical circuit consists of an accumulator cell ( 2'5 volts ) , or of 2 Leclanch4 cells ( 2*8 volts ) , two galvanometers , a resistance ( 1,000 or 10,000 ohms ) that can be put in or out of circuit for the purpose of calibration , and the subject of observation , with unpolarisable electrodes applied to the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the hand or of the foot .
The galvanometric spot of light indicative of current strength wavers under the influence of fluctuations of imbibition , and of contact pressure with slight ( unconscious ) muscular movement , but also , and quite independently , with altered states of consciousness , especially with such alterations as are sufficiently intense to be attended with subjective , or it may be objective , signs of emotion .
The effect is best demonstrated on the hand or foot ; on other parts ( forearm , arm , leg , thigh ) under similar conditions it is imperceptible .
As regards the hand and foot , the palmar surface is effective , the dorsal surface ineffective .
Results.\#151 ; From these facts a correlation with the presence of sweat glands suggests itself .
'216 Dr. A. D. Waller .
The Galvanometric But atropin ( atropin , four trials by local application of liq .
atropise , followed by a belladonna plaster for 24 hours ) was found not to affect the skin response .
The application of an indiarubber band rendering the limb pulseless and ex-sanguine did not appreciably affect the emotive response .
The most remarkable fact is the response to an idea .
In this connection it X 5,000Fig .
1.\#151 ; The emotive response in this instance has a resistance value of 4000 ohms ( t.e. , a fall of R from 12,000 to 8000 , or a rise of conductivity on the record of about 20 mm. = about 40 y , i.e. , 0'000040 mho ) .
At the point marked X the subject raised the little finger , 'causing a rise of the .myograph lever and a momentary increase of resistance in the circuit .
The emotive effect of the idea aroused in the subject in response to the sentence " Pensez a la Belgique " was far more permanent than that shown in fig. 2 , in which the exciting idea was aroused by the phrase " Pensez aux Gothas .
" The subject , G. de D. , is a Belgian lady , who was an eye-witness of episodes in the German occupation of Belgium in 1914 .
is further remarkable that the most effective ideas are such as are accompanied by disagreeable or painful emotion .
The threat of a burn is often more effective than the bum itself .
Lighting a match may give a larger effect than the application of a match to the free hand .
The apprehension of a bad smell that has just been experienced has proved to be particularly effective .
The expected prick of a needle has produced more effect than an unexpected prick .
Measurement of " Emotive " Physiological Changes .
217 Fig. 2.\#151 ; Emotive response to the suggested idea of an air-raid .
The brief interruption , of light marked X was made for the purpose of testing the record for parallax .
In both records the battery ( two Leclanch6 cells ) , patient , and galvanometer ( shunted ) are in series .
In other observations I have followed the more convenient method of placing the patient in the x arm of a " Wheatstone bridge and calibrating by 014 volt whatever departure from zero ( lowered resistance of x ) is produced in response to the emotive stimulus .
Different subjects react differently to different stimuli , and the same subject in different states of health and at different times of day reacts differently to identical stimulation .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; B. T

