Consideration of the Objections raised against the geometrical Representation of the Square Roots of Negative Quantities .
By the Rev. John Warren , M.A. of Jesus College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read February 19 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 241 .
] It has always appeared a paradox in mathematics , that by employing what are called imaginary or impossible quantities , and subjecting them to the same algebraic operations as those which are performed on quantities that are real and poassible , the results obtained should always prove perfectly correct .
The author inferring from this fact , that the operations of algebra are of a more comprehensive nature than its definitions and ' fundamental principles , was led to inquire what extension might be given to these definitions and principles , so as to render them strictly applicable to quantities of every description , whether real or imaginary .
This deficiency , he conceives , may be supplied by having recourse to certain geometrical considerations .
By taking into account the directions as well as the lengths of lines drawn in a given plane , from a given point , the addition of such lines may admit of being performed in the same manner as the composition of motions in dynamics ; and four such lines may be regarded as proportional , both in length and direction , when they are proportionals in length , and , when also the fourth is inclined to the third at the same angle that the second is to the first .
From this principle he deduces , that if a line drawn in any given direction be assumed as a positive quantity , and consequently its opposite a negative quantity , a line drawn at right angles to the positive or negative direction will be represented by the square root of a negative quantity ; and a line drawn in an oblique direction will be represented by the sum of two quantities , the one either positive or negative , and the other the square root of a negative quantity .
On this subject , the author published a treatise in April 1828 ; since 2 which period several objections have been made to this hypothesis .
The purpose of the present paper is to answer these objections .
The first of these is , that impossible roots should be considered merely as the indications of some impossible condition , which the proposition that has given rise to them involves ; and that they have in fact no real or absolute existence .
To this it is replied by the author , that although such a statement may be true in some cases , it is by no means necessarily so in all ; and that these quantities resemble in this respect fractional and negative roots , which , whenever they are excluded by the nature of the question , are indeed signs of impossibility , but yet in other cases are admitted to be real and significant quantities .
We have therefore no stronger reasons , 2apriori , for denying the real existence of what are called impossible roots , because they are in some cases the signs of impossibility , than we should have for refusing that character to fractional or negative roots on similar grounds .
It has been objected , in the second place , that there is no necessary connexion between algebra and geometry , but only one of analogy ; and that it is consequently improper to introduce geometric considerations into questions purely of an algebraic nature .
In answer to this , the author contends that a necessary connexion may be shown to exist between impossible roots , and the series expressive of the ratio between the circumference of a circle and its diameter .
This he endeavours to prove by examining such values of the expansion of 1 " as are functions of x ; whereby he is led to a series , the terms of which involve both the square root of unity , and also the above-mentioned geometric ratio .
In other cases he arrives , by methods which are purely algebraic , to expressions containing sines and cosines , together with impossible roots .
Hence the author infers that a necessary connexion exists between algebra and geometry ; and that his own hypothesis as to the geometric representation of the square roots of negative quantities , is true in the same sense as the hypothesis adopted by algebraists respecting the geometric representation of negative quantities is true .
To a third objection , derived from the alleged inutility of such a geometric representation of the square roots of negative quantities , the author replies , that from their frequent employment by mathematicians , it is reasonable to expect that they will be of much greater use when the true theory of their nature shall be established than when it was unknown .
If the hypothesis of the author is admitted , all questions in dynamics where the motions of bodies are limited to one plane , will be brought within the province of pure algebra .
The author concludes by noticing a work by M. Mourey , entitled ' La vraie .
ThMorie des Quantites Negatives , et des Quantit6s prLtendues Imaginaires , " in which the same general views of the subject are presented as are entertained by the author .

