Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
161 gills atrophy later .
During the process of their doing so , the Lepido-siren passes through a condition in which the stumps persist evidently corresponding to that well known in the young Protopterus , the group of external gills with their common stalk having come by differential development to be situated immediately above the fore limb .
After the close of the larval period the Lepidosirens become much darker in colour and more lively in their movements .
Young were obtained from the nest up to a length of 60 mm. About this time the cornea begins to assume the white unhealthy appearance that it has in the adult .
In the young of this size , small yellow spots appear , and in the young of 90 mm. these are conspicuous .
Occasional yellow blotches persist in the young Lepidosiren of eighteen months , but in the adult they disappear .
The paper concludes with general remarks on the phenomena described .
The segmentation approaches most closely that of Ganoids .
The shortening up of the invaginating groove is considered to illustrate a process which has taken place in phylogeny in the passage from the primitive holoblastic egg to the meroblastic condition .
The continuity of the medullary folds behind the anus is adduced , together with the evidence accumulating of the prolongation of the blastopore along the floor of the medullary groove in other forms ( Amphibia , Ceratodus , e.g. ) as affording potent evidence in favour of the hypothesis which derives the Yertebrata from ancestral forms as primitive as the Coelenterata , and possessing a nelongated mouth traversing the neural surface .
The occurrence of external gills in the young of three so comparatively primitive groups of Vertebrata as Crossopterygians , Dipnoans , and Amphibians ; their occurrence on four branchial arches in Lepidosiren , and on at least the hyoid arch in Crossopterygians , and the occurrence of a probable homologue on the mandibular arch in Urodela , are taken as suggesting that these structures are organs of great antiquity in the Vertebrate stem , and that there was formerly one present on each visceral arch .
It is pointed out that were this so , it would afford a theory of the origin of the vertebrate limb , which would be supported by much of the evidence brought forward by the supporters of the Gegenbaur view , and which at the same time would avoid the most important difficulties in the way of this view .
" The Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
" By A. E. Tutton , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Tilden , D.Sc .
, E.R.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read May 4 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The author has carried out a series of re-determinations of the coefficients of thermal expansion of these two metals with the aid of the interference dilatometer described in a former communication to the VOL. LXV .
-vr 162 Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
Society.* Since the determinations made by Fizeau in the year 1869 , a large amount of additional knowledge has been accumulated with reference to nickel and cobalt , including the discovery of the liquid nickel carbonyl , which places processes of purification in the hands of the chemist of a character so superior to the older methods , as to render it highly desirable that re-determinations of the physical constants of these interesting elements should be carried out with specimens of the metals thus purified .
By the kindness of Professor Tilden , who has prepared such specimens with infinite care for the purposes of the investigation of other physical and chemical characters , the author has been enabled to carry out determinations of the thermal expansion with rectangular blocks varying in thickness from 8 to 13 mm. The blocks were furnished with parallel and truly plane surfaces by the makers of the dilatometer , Messrs. Troughton and Simms .
The range of temperature of the observations was from 6 ' to 121 ' .
The results of the determinations of the coefficients of linear expansion a are as follows :\#151 ; a = a + 2 For nickel ... ... a - 0-000 012 48 + 0-000 000 014 8* .
For cobalt ... . .
a = 0-000 012 08 + 0-000 000 012 8 Nine different determinations were carried out for each metal , three in each of the three rectangular directions , in order to eliminate any slight error due to directional strain in the metallic blocks .
As the metals crystallise in the regular system , the expansion should be the same in all directions .
The metal in each case had solidified after fusion in an oxy-hydrogen flame in presence at the last of excess of oxygen .
The individual results are highly concordant , the highest result for cobalt being still lower than the lowest of the nine values obtained for nickel .
Hence there can be no doubt that the above coefficients represent the true relationships .
The main result of the investigation may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; The coefficients of linear expansion a of pure nickel and cobalt exhibit a slight but real difference , the coefficient of nickel being distinctly greater than that of cobalt .
This is true with respect to both the constant a , the coefficient for 0 ' , and the increment per degree , 2b , of the general expression for the coefficient at any temperature t , a. = a + 2 bt .
The difference is consequently one which augments with the temperature ; at 0 ' it amounts to 3-2 per cent. , while at 120 ' , the upper limit of the temperatures of the observations , it attains 4*5 per cent. Similar rules apply naturally to the cubical coefficients .
The metal possessing the slightly lower atomic weight , nickel , is thus found to expand to a greater extent than the metal , cobalt , which is endowed with the higher atomic weight .
* 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , rol .
191 , p. 313 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 63 , p. 208 .

