]\gt ; A Study of talytic Actions at Solid Surfaces .
.\mdash ; The Rate of Change conditioned by a Nickel Catal.and its on the of Action .
By E. F. ARMSTRONG , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and T. P. HILDITCH , D.Sc .
( Received June 3 , 1920 .
) In recent communications attention has been drawn to the analogy between the action of enzymes , which are essentially colloidal anic catalysts and of metallic catalysts , such as nickel , both of which are active in virtue of their surface at which the chemical action takes place .
It is possible to study the behaviour of the nickel catalyst with considerable accuracy under a variety of conditions , so that the opportunity is afl'orded of investigating the laws governing the rate of action in its presence , and comparing the results with those obtained with enzymes .
It may be stated at once that the results confirm the theory outlined by one of us in 1904 , which , though accepted at the time , has subsequently been overlooked by adherents of the more generally accepted logarithmic theory of mass action .
In discussing the action of enzymes on sugars it was considered that the active mass , in more modern the adsorbed quantity , is that proportion of the total sugar combined with the enzyme which is change at any one moment .
When the active mass is small compared with the bulk concentration of the sugar , that is when the adsorption capacity is high and the surface is saturated with the active molecules , the rate of decomposition , , over a considerable range of concentration becomes a constant , and equal weights of sugar are hydrolysed in equal intervals of time .
To attain this result , it is necessary to have the enzymes so prepared as to be in a highly active state , and the conditions of the experiment so arranged other disturbing factors do not arise .
There is then no difficulty in in practice a linear rate of action , the duration of the linear phase of the change being the longer the greater the activity of the enzyme .
Originally the experiments were made with so-called soluble enzymes which , although colloidal , were believed to be in solution ; in later years , they have been repeated with the same enzymes in an insoluble form , under conditions such that the ] must have been adsorbed by the enzyme and the action at the surface .
Such insoluble enzymes are prepared by autolysing fresh leaves or suitable living material in presence of toluene , and completely washing away all soluble constituents ; the residue is dried and Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
ground to a powder , which is often highly active towards -glucosides , though aqueous extracts made from it are inactive .
apparent logarithmic rates of action observed by some workers in enzymic changes are considered to be due to secondary changes , such as the combination of the enzyme with one of the products of change ; in other words , a progressive diminution of the amount of enzyme available for hydrolysis .
It is possible , when dealing with the enation of liquids in presence of nickel , to select conditions which are analogous to several of those which tend to confuse the simple , regular rate of hydrolytic action .
The relation between the normal linear ressio and the logarithmic rate of change induced by secondary causes then becomes exceedingly clear .
This result has been obtained by studying the rate of hydrogenation of a number of simple ethylenic compounds of the aromatic series , the absorption being measured by means of meters placed before and after the hydrogenation apparatus , as described in our first communication .
Under the conditions of the experiments , the benzenoid residues present were not susceptible to hydrogenation .
Linear Character of the normal Hydrogenation Curves .
In the first place , owing to the small proportion of nickel compared to the amount of unsaturated compound ( which involves a still smaller proportion present at any given moment of the unstable complex\mdash ; nickel-ethylenic compound ) , the active mass undergoing change at any one moment is practi- cally the same over a considerable period , and linear curves corresponding to the relation are obtained for 50-80 per cent. of the graph representing the complete hydrogenation .
We have obtained data of this in the case of the methyl and ethyl esters of cinnamic acid , COOH , and the phenolic ethers anethol , , and safrol , , in tions conducted at 14 and C. in presence of per cent of nickel .
and 2 show the graphs representing the results obtained ; the numerical data are given for the typical case of methyl cinnamate , with the experimental values for ( linear relation ) and ( unimolecular mass-action equation , , being the volume of hydrogen required to saturate 100 grammes of methyl cinnamate ) .
The figures for the other compounds are closely similar and need not be given in extenso .
A Study of Actions Solid Surfaces . .
FIG. 2 .
100 .
Methyl Cinnamate and .
Nickel .
At .
At SO Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. A comparison between that part of the action over which the relation holds within the limits of experimental error and the duration of whole process is afforded in the next table:\mdash ; Transformation from Linear to liogarithmic Curve in Preseme of Subs tamce cam combine with the Catalyst .
In the hydrolysis of glucosides the hexose produced associates with the enzyme and has the effect of diminishing the active mass of the latter on the other hand , at the temperature at which reduction is effected , the saturated product of hy drogenation has much less affinity for the catalyst than the unsaturated material , so that its effect in changing the character of the curve representing chemical action against time does not become evident till much later .
An analogy to the withdrawal of the enzyme from hydrolytic activity is , however , to be found in the action on nickel of some feebly acidic compounds : these show the usual " " poisoning\ldquo ; effect on the catal .
and in suitably chosen instances the rate of " " poisoning\ldquo ; is sufficiently slow to make it comparable with the rate of hydrogenation .
Under such circumstances the graph becomes a representation throughout of an approximately logarithmic action , the action measured in this case being essentially that of the decrease in activity of the catalyst .
Thus , if isoeugenol or coumarin are hydrogenated , the curves are logarithmic as compared with the mainly linear graphs for anethol and safrol or the cinnamic esters .
The difference between the different compounds is that isoeugenol is a phenol : CH , whilst comnarin , , is liable to , be transformed , in presence of traces of water , into -hydroxycinnamic acid ; .
also , in both cases , the product of hydrogenation is dark-coloured and contains certain decomposition products which do not appear in the other examples .
A Study of Catalytic Actions at Solid faces .
The curves for at 14 and , and for coumarin at are given in fig. 3 ; the corresponding numerical data are as 100 .
Isoeugenol and .
Nickel .
At .
At Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
100 grm. Coumarin and grm. Nickel .
Transformation from Linear to iogarithm Curves in the Ilydrogenation of Pure ( Non-toxic ) Compound , to Concentration of Eydrogen .
If , instead of following our regular procedure of passing a constant stream of hydrogen the open apparatus , it was converted into a closed system by sealing the inlet tube and connecting the exit to the hydrogen supply , so that any gaseous impurities accumulated in the gas-space above the liquid ( except in so far as they might diffuse back against the incoming current of hydrogen ) , very consistent logarithmic curves were always obtained .
Some experiments made with ethyl cinnamate at in the closed apparatus may be quoted : the hydrogen was dried over a long layer of anhydrous calcium chloride , and then passed a narrow capillary about 75 cm .
in length ( to prevent any back diffusion ) , immediately before reaching the hydrogenation vessel .
It was found that the rate of action observed was not in any way connected with the hydrogenation itself , but was simply a.measure of the rate at which the free gas-space in the vessel was becoming filled with gaseous impurities .
The concentration of in the free gas-space falls off as gas is absorbed in the action , and , if the rate cf hydrogenation depends upon this concentration , and is the total volume of hydrogen which could be absorbed before the free gas-space is completely filled with gaseous impurity , then it has been shown*that the measured rate of action is given by , or 'Journ .
Soc. Chem. Ind vol. 39 , p. 120 , .
A Study of Catalytic Actions at Solid The value of was determined in each experiment after analysis of the gas remaining in the free space above the liquid at the conclusion of the process .
From the percentage of hydrogen ( p ) thus obtained , and the known total absorption of hydrogen , the percentage of hydrogen ( P ) in the original gas employed was calculated , and , from this , the volume of the gas-space having also been measured , the value of was derived .
It may be remarked , in passing , that if a material could be found for hydrogenation which did not give up traces of gaseous impurities such as carbon dioxide or hydrocarbons , this process would form the basis of an exceedingly accurate method of hydrogen analysis , the explosion or combustion of the hydrogen being effected on a very small proportion of the total hydrogen ( for example , in most of our experiments , the total absorption of was about 12litres , that remaining in the gas-space of the vessel being about litres ) .
The results obtained with ethyl cinnamate at C. , and three different cylinders of electrolytic hydrogen , varying slightly in purity , are shown in the next Table , and graphicaIly in fig. 4 ; in the Table are given , and as before .
the " " unimoleoular constant\ldquo ; calculated with respect to the total hydrogen absorbable by the ethyl cinnamate , and as above , V0L .
xcvm .
Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
and the ' unimolecular constant " " hydrogen absorbable when the 648 .
at 18 or 412 .
at these experiments ) .
It is to be observed thaC ( i ) With increasing purity of stancy characteristic of enation i ( ii ) The values of increase throu cordant as the hydrogen purity decrease for or per cent. ) ; ( iii ) As the purity of the hydrogen a by increase , the absolute values of rate at which the gas-space becomes fille the hydrogen .
A Study of Catalytic Actions at Solid Surfaces .
It is also to be borne in mind that this effect\mdash ; the constancy of { , could not appear unless the actual hydrogenating action were ( within the limit of experimental error ) , a linear function of the time .
We have in common with other workers , found that substances such as fatty oils ( under conditions which , in our " " open\ldquo ; system of working , do not lead to a linear graph ) do not give constant values for in the " " closed\ldquo ; system ; on the other hand , if attention is confined to a well-marked linear portion of the curve obtained in the " " open\ldquo ; system ( such as the initial portion of the linseed oil curve , fig. 1 ) , then when hydrogenating under the\ldquo ; closed\ldquo ; system over the same range of unsaturation , concordant values of are found .
The bearing of this section on the enzyme experiments may be briefly considered ; the corresponding pairs of interactants are nickel and enzyme , unsaturated compound and glucoside , and hydrogen and water .
The Tessive alteration in concentration of the hydrogen therefore corresponds to circumstances in which the active mass of the water is varied ; and although the analogy is perhaps not very exact , the result is similar to the competition between water and glucoside for an acid when an acid is used in place of an enzyme as hydrolytic agent .
One of us and B. J. Caldwell* have shown that this withdrawal of water by the acid , when the latter is present in more than very dilute solution , tends to suppression of the linear phase of hydrolysis .
When the Action is Indep(jndent of the Concentration of the talyst .
The relation implies that the amount of unsaturated compound present , and therefore its relation to the amount of catalyst present , has no influence on the action .
In other words , the amount of action is dependent only on the total mass of the catalyst present in the system , so that liquid hydrogenation and vapour catalyses such as hydrogenation , dehydrogenation , or dehydration are identical from this standpoint .
In practice , as we have pointed out , the relation cannot hold throughout the process , but in the case of liquid hydrogenation does so for a considerable range .
We have made some experiments on these lines on the hydrogenation of linseed oil ; this material gives an initial linear portion of about 30 per cent. of the whole curve , corresponding to hydrogenation of all the linolenin and most of the linolein .
A very abrupt curvature then sets in , and thereafter approximate linearity at much lower slope is resumed .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 634( Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditc We examined varying weights of oi1\mdash ; 200 , 300 , and 400 \mdash ; in each case with two weights of nickel , and .
The resulting curves are shown in fig. 5 , and the numerical data may be briefly summarised as follows :\mdash ; Three component factors are clearly visible : ( i ) The dependence of the value of on the mass of nickel present ; ( ii ) The influence of impurities in the oil gradually affecting the catalyst ; and ( ui ) The load of oil in the apparatus .
With the larger amount of nickel , the rate of hydrogen absorption over the A Study of talytic Actions Solid Surfuces .
first linear portion of the curve is very nearly constant whether 200 , 300 or 400 .
of oil are present , but it increases slightly owing to the fact that the mixing device employed tends to work more efficiently mder full load .
On the other hand , with less nickel present , the rates are again nearly constant for loads of oil of 200 and 300 , but in the latter case the extra amount of impurity present in the increased quantity of oil commences to have a perceptible eflect ; with 400 .
this effect is so marked that , after a much shortened linear portion , permanent curvature sets in , on account of the progressive depreciation of the catalyst and independently of the normal curvature of the hydrogenation progress itself .
Some enxrat Considerations of Chemical Action at ( Catalytic ) The hydrolytic actions formerly studied by one of us and the actions of enation and dehydrogenation which have formed the subject of the present communications have proved equally open to explanation by processes of an essentially chemical character .
Indeed , all our work has served merely to develop , on somewhat novel lines , the old view , first put forward by de la Rive and Marcet*that catalytic change is ellected by the intermediate formation of definite chemical compounds ; although we do not postulate in general formation of intermediate of well-defined stability .
Indeed , it is our opinion that these are not to be expected in the course of catalytic change , the specific action of various catalysts probably depending largely on the suitable instability of the intermediate complex for the purposes of the action .
In other words , change of the compounds which we have studied depends on the coincidence that the catalyst and the initial substance will interact to form a compound sufficiently unstable under the conditions prevailing to decompose ( or interact with other constituents of the system ) giving the new products .
* Ann. Chim .
Phys ( 2 ) , vol. 39 , p. 328 ( 1828 ) .
The physico-chemical data from which our present deductions are made do not afford any evidence as to the precise stoichiometrical relation subsisting between catalyst and organic compound .
The latter is not necessarily simple , for example , an atom of nickel in temporary union with an organic group containing one ethyleniclinkage : it may be more probably of the nature of a ' co-ordinated\ldquo ; compound ( comparable to nickel carbonyl ) in which the " " subsidiary valencies\ldquo ; of the interactants play the chief part ; or again , the combination might be still less definite and analogous to the korptiou of dyes by fibres , in which case the composition of the unstable complex might vary with physical conditions such as temperature or concentration .
By " " intermediate compound\ldquo ; in the present series of papers we mean an association between catalyst and the other components due to the same " " chemical \ldquo ; forces which operate in more ordinary chemical actions , but we are not able to offer any opinion as to the precise character of the compounds thus transiently produced .
Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
Owing to the influence of Ostwald , Nernst , and the late XIXth-century school of German physical chemists , the chemical view due originally to the above French scientists has been under a cloud , the first-named in particular to accept a theory which could not give in every case definite proof of the existence of each intermediate compound cited , ascribing catalysis at solid surfaces to adsorption or physical concentration of the interactants at the surface , and a senes of dogmatic " " criteria\ldquo ; of catalysis .
It is to be remembered , however , that the chemist and the physicist regard the question from different points of view , and that ultimately the physical and chemical explanations of catalysis must be found to be complementary and not onistic .
Lewis*has criticised some of Ostwald 's " " criteria notably , that a catalyst cannot affect the final state of equilibrium , and is incapable of starting an interaction , and found them to be unsound .
The physical disproof of these two articles of faith , which have for a long time conflicted with everyday experience of the worker on catalytic problems , is especially to be welcomed .
The phenomenon of adsorption was until lately regarded as a " " diffusion layer several molecules thick , of the adsorbed substance at the solid surface , t- the rate of chemical interaction being a function of the rate of diffusion in this layer , and not depending on any actual chemical change at the surface of the catalyst .
recently adsorption has been considered only to involve the formation of a single layer of molecules at a solid surface , the forces operating in holding atoms or molecules to such surface being " " chemical\ldquo ; in nature , not purely physical .
This view is generally associated with the work of but the idea of a molecular layer is in reality much older in origin .
Lord Rayleigh , S we bolieve , was the first to draw attention to the fact that the operating film in the case of the reduction of the surface tension of water by olive oil is of the order of one molecule thick , his conclusions being .
confirmed by Devaux and Marcelinl and extended by W. B. Hardy .
The film begins to produce an effect with a layer one molecule thick ; beyond this point the tension falls as the layer is thickened and there is a second critical point 'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 115 , p. 1360 ( 1919 ) .
Cf .
Bodenstein , itsch .
Physikal Chem , p. 655 ( 1899 ) ; vol. 53 , p. 166 ( 1905 ) ; Nernst , ibid. , vol. 47 , p. 52 ( 1904 ) .
Amer .
Chem. ; vol. 39 , p. 1848 ( 1917 ) ; vol. 40 p. S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 47 , p. 364 ( 1890 ) .
'Rev .
gem . .
Sciences , ' February , 1913 .
' Ann. de ysique , ' vol. 1 , vol. 19 ( 1914 ) .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 86 , p. 631 1912 ) ; vol. 88 , p. 303 ( 1913 ) .
A Catalytic Actions at Solid Surfaces .
where it is two molecules thick .
Hardy has shown that the effect is mined by chemical constitution and increases with the reactivity of the substance .
It may be cited further that Lewis*has extended the radiation hypothesis , by which he explains many oases of " " homogeneous\ldquo ; catalysis , to " " heterogeneous\ldquo ; actions on the basis of the single layer adsorption theory . .
has shown that the rate of selective combustion of carbon monoxide when a mixture of carbon monoxide , hydrogen and oxygen is passed over a suitable catalyst agrees with " " Langmuir 's view\ldquo ; rather than with the earlier " " diffusion\ldquo ; theory of Bodenstein .
It would seem , therefore , that the physical deduction that catalysis in heterogeneous systems is effected by adsorption of a single layer of the interactants at the solid catalytic surface ( the adsorption being due to " " chemical\ldquo ; forces ) is indistinguishable from the chemical hypothesis of unstable intermediate compounds formed between catalyst and interactants , which has been forced by experimental facts upon the consideration of the chemist at intervals from 1828 , when De la Rive and Marcet first suggested the idea , down to the present moment .
So far as we are concerned , we are convinced that the hypothesis of unstable intermediate compounds between the catalyst and interactants offers a reasonable explanation of the mechanism of all so-called " " heterogeneous\ldquo ; catalytic actions and , in particular , of the following:\mdash ; ( i ) Action of enzymes on sugar derivatives in aqueous solution , etc. ; ( ii ) The Sabatier\ldquo ; catalyses of organic compounds in presence of finely divided metals or metallic oxides , including hydrogenation and dehydrogenation , hydration and dehydration , formation of ethers and ketones , the specific action of finely divided metals on the vapours of aliphatic acids , and the combined dehydration and condensation processes effected by certain metallic oxides leading to the production of ethers , amines , thiols , esters , etc. , from alcohols or phenols ; ( iii ) The interaction of carbon 1nonoxide and steam conditioned by various solid substances .
Actions of this type are produced in a system at first heterogeneous , but the actual interaction takes place in a homogeneous system composed of the solid catalyst and its associated compounds , and as such follows the law of mass action , proceeding at a constant rate so long as the acting mass of the catalyst is itself constant .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 115 , p. 182 ( 1919 ) .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 115 , p. 993 ( 1919 ) .
Mr. S. Barratt .
In conclusion , we claim to have established that , in the case of an active catalyst where the surface concentration of the adsorbed compound is at a maximum , chemical action takes place at a ular rate so long as au adequate supply of the interacting substances is maintained at the surface .
The forces regulating this supply may be physical rather than chemical in nature .
The Origin of the " " \ldquo ; By S. RATT .
( Communicated by Prof. T. R. Merton , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1920 .
) There are , in addition to the line and the positive and negative band spectra of nitrogen , several other series of bands , in the production of which this element plays some part .
The emission centres responsible for these bands have generally been identified with the molecules of compounds of nitrogen with other elements , though these molecules are not necessarily those of compounds which can be isolated under normal circumstances , and possibly may prove to be more of the nature of temporary associations .
Such spectra include the so-called third positive band spectrum of nitrogen , the various spectra attributed to ammonia or other nitrogen-oxygen com- plexes , and also the cyanogen bands .
The NO bands , Deslandres ' third positive group of nitrogen bands , are found in vacuum tubes filled with nitrogen , when they contain a trace of oxygen as impurity .
They have also been observed in the carbon arc surrounded by a magnesia block , uncondensed spark discharges in air and nitrogen , and in the flames of cyanogen and ammonia .
They were formerly believed to be due to alone , but Deslandres , Schniedeljost , Lewis and others have proved that their production is dependent upon the presence of oxygen .
The spect , ra obtained from compounds or mixtures of nitrogen and hydrogen are more complex .
What is probably the true ammonia spectrum was discovered by Schuster .
It was observed when a continuous stream of ammonia was passed through a vacuum tube , and disappeared immediately upon interruption of the gas flow , presumably owing to complete decomposition of the ammonia .
Another spectrum is characterised by a strong * Living and Dewar , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 34 , p. 418 ( 1882 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 20 , p. 484 ( 1872 ) .

