]\gt ; On alvanio Cproduced by the Action of Light .
369 be denied that many chemical reactions do take place instantaneously pn the boundary of two phases , and a considerable number of interesting have been investigated by Brunner , which evidently conform to rule .
It does not , however , seem probable that a useful purpose twould be served in considering this rule to hold universally .
I have examined consequences drawn from it with regard to ytic rgree withby substances sitrogen peroxide during tution oopperof vocity shown bving iifferent avery dheory , reat difference conclusion , the author desires to say that he has had the advantage of discussing the matter treated in this paper with : : .
Senter and Professor Pointing , for which he acknowledges his indebtedness .
\mdash ; " " On Galyanic Cells produced by the Action of Light .
Preliminary Communication.\ldquo ; S By M. WILDERMAN , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Oxon ) .
Communicated by Dr. LUDWIG MOND , F.R.S. November 8 , \mdash ; Read November 24 , 1904 .
( From the Davy-Farada .
Laboratory of the Royal Institution .
) In my paper " " On Chemical Statics and Dynamics\ldquo ; ' Phil. Trans , vol. 199 , 1902 , I ) .
337 ) , and especially ' Zeit .
Physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 42 , 1902 , pp. 316\mdash ; 335 , I deduced , from thermodynamics , the laws experimentally found by me for velocity of chemical reaction , and for chemical equihbrium under the action of light , from the fundamental conception that the chemical potential of substance in light and in the dark is different , becoming er in light .
The foundation for this conception was that two metallic plates immersed in a liquid and connected to a circuit form a ' galvanic\ldquo ; combination , when one plate is exposed to light while the other is kept in the dark ; and , according to Gibbs ' equation , ( no galvanic cell could ) formed , unless the chemical potentiaIs at the two electrodes were different in light and in the dark .
The experiments of Becquerel and Iinchin left students to infer $ ' .
Phys. ' vol. 47 , p. 56 ( 1904 ) .
Farad , Iy Society , tober 2 , 1904 .
r$ Ostwald , ' Grundlinien .
anorganischen Chemie , ' p. 249 .
S This paper contains a account of the 's further rese , rehes on " " Chemical Statics and Dynamics of Reversible and Irreversible Systems unde ] the Action of Light Dr. M. Wilderman .
On Galvanic Cdls [ Nov. that the E.M.F. observed is due to ' surface phenomena with AgBr , plates both observed currents sometimes in direction , sometimes in the other , and in every experiment : curves and mysterious phenomena very curious cases of inversion of the current were observed .
No galvanic combination we know of gives a current in one direction at one time , in the opposite at another , the anode and cathode exchanging their parts .
Not only were the deflectiona of the galvanometer observed , but all the curves in all thsir complexity were studied and photographed from beginning to end , including the induction and deduction periods .
I succeeded , after much trouble , in making the investigation instead of qualitative , as hitherto ; the results obssrved were studied , and considered in connection with the chemical composition of the heterogeneous system , and with those chemical reactions , previonly unknown to us , which take place in the different systems under the action of light ; the complex nature of the phenomena observed was found , quantitatively separated into constituents , and freed from interfering concomitants , etc. Though the amperes and volts measured were mostly exceedingly small ( the first had to be measured in units of 10-9 , and the second in units of ) , the photographed curves obtained show that the experimental difficulties in this egion were quite come , sinco concordant results were obtained on repetition of the experiments .
As the result of more than 3 ' work , I find that there is , the action of light , a region of galvanic cells as wide and as varied as in the case of ordinary galvanic cells .
We have here constant and inconstant cells , reversible and irreversible cells .
The chemical reactions and chemical equilil)rium in these galvanic combinations are now perfectly clear , yet they are all suigineris , all the phenomena being intermixed , and characterised by phenomena of induction and deduction peculiar to light cells only .
I succeeded also in placing this region of phenomena on a physico-mathematical basis , testing and proving the equations experimentally in all details .
The principal resuIts obtained are:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The total .
produced by light consists of an E.M.F. produced by light at a constant temperature , owing to increase of chemical potential , and of solution pressure of the exposed plate , and of a thermo-E.M.F .
caused by one of the two plates in contact with the liquid being heated by light .
Both E.M.F. are found to be directly proportional to the intensity of light , and both give currents in ths same direction , proving light acts on chemical potential , as well as on solution pressure of the electrode , in the same way as does heat .
My generalisation for light : ' Each kind of equilibrium between two states of matter ( system ) is , at constant volnme , on to shifted in the direction accompanied by greater absorption of light produced by the Action of Light .
to va n't Hoff 's ' principle of moveable equilibrium\ldquo ; for heat ) is thus proved .
( 2 ) The phenomena of reversal of the current , etc. , observed by Becquerel and Minchin , are due , not to surface phenomeIJa or different thicknesses of sensitive layer but to the fact that their combinations all give inconstant cells showing polarisation , a phenomenon which they and other observers entirely overlooked , since they made 110 study of the induction and deduction periods .
Whenever a consideration of the composition of the heterogeneous system , and of the reactions going on in the same under the action of the current , shows that an inconstant cell should be formed , the curve illustrated by fig. 2 is obtained , .
the peculiar course of the induction and deduction periods being caused by the principal E.M.F. and the E.M.F. of polarisation being set up simultaneously under the action of light , with different velocities , and diminishing on removal of the light , with different velocities , vanishing almost simultaneously .
Whenever a consideration of the composition of the heterogeneous systems , and of the reactions going on in the same under the action of the current , shows that the cell should be reversibly constant , then , provided the action of light upon the plate is such as to allow of the formation of a constant cell , and , provided the plates are so prepared as to avoid the formation of ' gas batteries " " ( for this the .
in the dark must be made very small\mdash ; a few millionths of a volt ) we get constant cells , the induction and deduction period having a normal course , as illustrated in fig. 1 .
( 3 ) The law governing the induction period in constant reversible cells is evidently , , the speed with which the approaches , exposure to light , its new state of equilibrium light ( given by the line , and characterised by the value of constant E.M.F. , ) is directly proportional to the remoteness of the system at the given time , , from the point of equilibrium in light iven by the value , if is the Fj .
M.F. at the time , while ' is the maximum E.M.F. in light ) , to the amount of variation already produced by light in the systenl up to the time ( given by , if is the initial .
of the system in the dark ) plus a oonstant , which is also of the character of an instability constant , i.e. , the more the system is removed from its point of equilibrium in light , the quicker it approaches it , the more the molecules and atoms have ) shaken up light ( exposed to light previously to the time ) , the quicker the system pproaches the point of in light .
This gives also the fundame1ltal law of photography , the connection between the amount of silver salts decomposed and the time of exposure , since the E.M.F. is , this *See ' Zeitsch .
physik .
Chemie , ' 1902 , p. .332 ; Pltil .
1903 , , p. 223 .
Dr. M. Wildernlan .
Galvanic Cdls , 1 produced by the Action of Light .
373 , directly proportional to the current , and gives the true measure the amount of silver salts decomposed by light .
The equation for deduction period is alst ) i.e. , is directly proportional to the remoteness of the system from the point of equilibrium in the dark , , and to , which gives the amount of variation produced by the removal of the light in the , system already , up to the time plus a constant ( 4 ) The physico-mathematical theory of ' ' constant cells reversible in respect of the oation\ldquo ; ( e.g. , Ag plate in light , solution in light , : : solution in dark , Ag plate in dark ) is the following .
The result the process under the action of light consists:\mdash ; ( 1 ) In one gramme-atom of the cation of a higher ical potential pnssing from the electrode ( Ag ) in light into the solution of the salt of the electrode in light .
( 2 ) From the solution in light the gramme-atom of the cation passes to lolution in a'ark , transforIning there into cations of a lower chemical potential , passing a deduction period .
( 3 ) Finally from the solution in dark the gramme-atom of the lower potential separates upon the electrode ( Ag ) in dark .
Let the solution pressure of the plate be in dark , the osmotic pressure of the cations in the solution in dark .
Then , since the chemical potential of a substance is different ( greatsr in light than in dark , the solution pressure of the same plate in light will be , and the osmolic pressure of the cations of the same concentration in light will be .
If now we calculate the work done by such a system , when , under the action of light , 1 gramme-atom of Ag passes from the plate in light to the plate in dark , get volt ; for ( 2 ) volt ( very nearly ) ; for ( 3 ) volt ; and volt. .
( I ) gives the value of the E.NI .
F. of such combinations under the action of light .
This equation shows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The E. F. of such a must be independent of concentration , ; This was found experiment to be the ( 2 ) Experiments were made which showed that both the value .374 Dr. M. Wilderman .
On Galvanic Cells [ Nov. volt and the electrical dilterence between the illuminated and the nated solution can be ueglected , in comparison with the electrical potentials of thoe plates solution .
Thus Equation ( I ) can be written ZE volt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( IV ) .
( 3 ) Since is is positive , i.e. , the current must flow from the plate in light the plate in dark , as was actually found .
( 4 ) volt or , we get on differ .
entiating and putting ( where and are heat of transformation of Ag into ions in light and in dark ) , a law , to that of Gibbs and Helmholtz for ordinary galvanic cells : .
( VI ) .
( 6 ) Equation ( VI ) allows us to calculate the heat of reaction from the Iii .
M.F. observed ; ) and , or the heat of transforma , tion of Ag into Ag cations must evidently be different in light and in dark .
( 6 ) By Equation ( Iy ) we can calculate both the ratio of the two solution ressures of the same electrode in light and in dark , from the E.M.F. observed and also the absolute value of if is known otherwise .
( 7 ) It was found experimentally that the E.M.F. created by light , or the worl done by the system under the action of light , is directly proportional to the intensity of light .
* ( 5 ) The physico-mathematical theory of ' constant cells reversible in respect of the anion\ldquo ; , Ag-BrAg plate in light , KBr solution in light , KBr solution in dark , Ag-BrAg plate in dark ) is the following .
The result of the process under the action of light consists ( 1 ) One glamme-atonl of allion of a higher chemical potential the electrode Ag-BrAg light ) the solution containing a salb of th ' same acid as the salt BrAg ) covering the metal plate Ag .
( 2 ) gramme-atom of ions passes from the solution in light to solution in dark , ansforming into anions of a lowe ohemical potential ; and ( 3 ) The gramme-atom of the ions in the of the chemical potentid separates from the solution upon the electrode in the dark .
If now calculate the maximum work done by such a system , when under the ation of the current 1 gramme of anion passes from the plate in light to the plate dark , putting , for the solution * See 'Zeitsch .
phvsik .
Chemie , ' 1902 , pp. $19 and 333 ; 'Phil .
' vol. 5 , pp. 211 , 224 .
produced of Light .
375 ressures of the electrodes in respect of the anion in light and in dark lnd and for the osmotic tres of the anions in light and in ark , we get or ( 1 ) volt ; for ( 2 ) volt ( approximately ) ; for volt ; volt , ( I ) .
This is the general equation .
It follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The E.M.F. be independent of oncenI r ; this actually found by direct experiment .
( 2 ) An experimental investigation of he value volt and of the electrical potential difference between the and not illuminated olution showed in dilferent ways that it can be neglected , so that we can put ZE T. volt ( IV ) .
( 3 ) Equation ( IV ) shows that , since , the rent ) flow from the plate in the dark to the plate in the light , as was found experimentally .
( 4 ) The connection is , from Hiquation ( IV ) , between the E.M.F. of a constant galvanic combination reversible in respect of the anion under the action of light and heat of chemical reaction in the same , or the chemical energy created by light : We have volt volt , or , and for From this equation we get RId Now the solution pressures ) foUow in light and in dark a law similar to Clausius ' law of evaporation , and ; therefore , i.e. , we get for constant galvanic cells reversible in respect of the anion in light , law aIlalogous to that of Gibbs and Helmholtz and according as is or the system will take up or not , or give up heat to the surrounding medinm .
376 Dr. M. Wilderman .
Un Galvanic Cells [ Nov. ( 5 ) Equation ( VI ) allows us to ( ; alculate the heat of reaction in galvanio oombi .
nations ated by light , from the observed E.M.F. and its temperature coeffioiqt .
The much greater .
deflections obtained here induced the author to make efforts to determlne the ] ) erature coefflcient of the E.M.F. observed , but tho enormous experimental ulties entailed prevented him getting more th$n the general result that it can only be very small ( experiments with KBr solutionl solutions ) .
For the same reason heat of tion can be only approxin ) ately .
( 6 ) As to the solution tension in light and in dark , there are differences cells created by light and ordinary gxlvanic ( ells ; the first are dependent upon the capacity of absorption of light , effect of previous illuminalion , physical changol in the dark , the intensity of light , etc. ; all this makes the solution tension of an electrode in light generis , distinct from the solution bension of ordinary galvanio cells .
( 7 ) The E.M.F. of e ; onstant cells reversible in respect of the anion is found aleo to be directly proportional to its intensity ( ZE ( VI1 ) ) .
Since the light alling upon the plate is also directly proportional to the intensity of light , i.e. , K. I , we have , i.e. , E.M.F. or the work done by ( he givoslashn system forms always the same fraction of the total light falling upon it , and this must hold good for monochromatic ligl ) as well .
Since the solution pressure of a substance in the dark is constant , it follows from ( VII ) that and ( VIII ) This equation gives the variation of the solution pressure of the eIectrode in light in dependence upon its ; if is known from other sources the absolute value of , can be ated for each intensity of light from .
( 6 ) The theory of thermogalvanic cells is the following .
An analysis of the ohemical reactions going on in such systems ( two equal plates immersed in a solution , one plate being kept at a higher tsmperature than the other ) shows that , e.g. , Ag plates in solution must form a constant cell reversible in respect of the cation , that Ag-BrAg plates in NaBr solution must form constant cells in respect of the anion , and Ag plates in solution must give an inconstant irreversible combination , etc. The E.M.F. of a *whermogalvanic combination evidently consists of : ( 1 ) The potential difference between one of the plates and the solution at , ( 2 ) the potential difference of the same plate and the same solution at and ( 3 ) the potential difference between two Qolutions of the different teniperatures , i.e. , Now we have for the : single electrical potential differences , at at where is the heat of ionisation of one gramme-atom of i011S in the above mentioned constant cell reversible in respect of the cation ) , while can be put i.e. , the force driving the ions from one part of the solution are on6 temperature to the other part of the solution at another temperature must be directly proportional to the difference of the two temperatures , 1 produeed by the Action of Light .
377 ocause the osmotic pressures are and Therefore ( ) , , the B.M.F. of thermogalvanic cells must be directly rbional to difference of temperature of the two electrodes , a law which is analogous to ution.ssumption , however , The laws for thermogalvanic cells can be deduced in another way from the solution pressures of the electrodes and the osmotic pressures of the solution .
We take the system sol .
, We have .
volt ; volt ; ; and voltE ' ( I ) , where , are the solution pressures of the silver electrodes at and T Similarly we get for cells reversible in respect of the anion volt .
Since are directly proportional to the absolute temperature , we have for systems reversible in respect of the cation and volt voltE ' . .
and for systems reversible in respect of the anion , volt volt .
Equation ( II ' ) differs from the equation of Nernst by the term which I put but while Nernst assumes that and remain unknown , and tries to eliminate them ( i.e. their content ) , by the use of two different concentrations , we shall try to determine the value .
and content of these equations so as to get to the fundamental equation concerning the thermogalvanic system for any one concentration .
On alvanic Cdls produced thAction of If , and are the solution pressures of the electrodes , they follow alaw analogous to Clausius ' law for evaporation in a vacuum , RTTv and therefore and K. Putting these values into equation I and II ' we get:\mdash ; instead ; instead , i.e. , the E.M.F. of constant thermogalvanic cells reversible in respect of either cation or anion , must be directly proportional to the differenoes of temperature of the two plates in contact with the liquid .
From the obsel.vations of Nernst myself , it can be shown that this is actually the case .
Hence we prove that : ( 1 ) The thermogalvanic E.M.F. is directly proportional to the difference of temperature of ) two places of contacb of the plates with the ( deduced in two ways ) .
( 2 ) The solution pressure of electrodes follows a law similar to Clausius ' law of evaporation .
( 3 ) The law of Gibbs and Helmholtz givmg the connection between E.MB .
of a galvanic combination , the heat of reaction , and the temperature coefflcienl of the E.M.F. , holds good for of two tials s , giving thus connection between the electric potential differences of the given plate and solution , the heat of ionisation of the given plate , and the temperature coefficient of tho value of this potential difference .
( 7 ) A very detailed investigation of the E.M.F. in the dark showed that it is due to the formation of ' ' gas batteries\ldquo ; through adhesion of gases in different concentrations to the plates , the degree of adhesion depending upon the state of the surface of the plate .
The current polishes the plates , the amount of the gases adhering to them becomes thus more equal , and according to the equation the E.M.F. of the gas battery becomes smaller .
From these we must distinguish gas batteries created under the action of light as the result of the chemical processes going on in the system under the action of the current\mdash ; the separation of gas upon one electrode only , or of different gases on the two electrodes .

