Some Experiments on Helium .
\lt ; \lt ; gome Experiments on Helium .
" By Morris W. Travers , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor W. Ramsay , F.R.S. Received December 30 , 1896 , \#151 ; Bead February 4 , 189/ .
In July of last year Professors Bunge and Paschen ( ' Phil Mag./ 1895 , [ ii ] , vol. 40 , pp. 297\#151 ; 302 ) announced their discovery that the spectrum of the gas from cleveite indicated the presence of two elements .
They also stated that by means of a single diffusion through an asbestos plug , they had been able to effect a partial separation of the lighter constituent , which was characterised by the green glow which it gave under the influence of the electric discharge in a vacuum-tube , and which was represented in the spectrum by the series containing the green line , A = 5015-6.^ Subsequently , at the meeting of the British Association at Ipswich , Professor Bunge exhibited a tube containing the so-called green constituent ; the colour of the glow differed strongly from that of an ordinary helium tube , but the gas contained in it was evidently at very low pressure , as phosphorescence was just commencing .
Professor Rung has since acknowledged that the green effect in the helium tube may be produced by a change of pressure alone ( ' Astrophysical Journal , ' January , 1896 ) .
During an exhibition of the spectrum of helium at the soiree of the Royal Society on May 9 , 1895 , it was noticed that one of the Pliicker tubes which had been running for nearly three hours , had become strongly phosphorescent .
The tube was fitted with platinum electrodes , and the -helium had apparently been absorbed by the platinum sparked on to the walls of the tube .
MTe observed the same phenomena to take place on several subsequent occasions , but only in the case of tubes with platinum electrodes.* Row , if helium is not a single gas , it must consist of a mixture of two or more monatomic gases , capable of mechanical separation , and it is possible that one of its constituents might be absorbed by the platinum faster than the other .
At the end of September , 1895 , I commenced some experimental work on this subject , with the view of separating the two or more possible constituents from one another .
The results were negative .
I employed in these experiments a piece of apparatus figui'cd below ( fig. 1 ) .
A large Pliicker tube , bent into a U -shape , has two side-tubes , A and B. The electrodes are of platinum , and project far into the tube ; the straight parts , which are of thick wire , and about 30 mm. * So far as I know , this phenomenon was first recorded by Professor Norman Lockyer ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1895 , vol. 58 , p. 193 ) .
450 Mr. W. Travers .
Fig.1 .
long , are protected by a sheath of thin glass tube , the spirals at their ends being of thin platinum wire .
The side-tube A is connected , by means of a tube containing pentoxide of phosphorus , with an apparatus for the introduction of gases into vacuum-tubes ( ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1895 , p. 686 ) .
The tube B is connected with a tap on the Top-ler 's pump .
The apparatus was first thoroughly exhausted and heated by a Bunsen 's flame , and then , after closing the tap on B , helium was introduced at about 3 mm. pressure .
The electrodes were connected with the secondary terminal of a coil , and the current was turned on , making a the cathode .
A deposit of platinum quickly appeared on the walls of the tube round a , and the folioAving changes took place in the colour of the glow :\#151 ; 1 .
Yellow , with slight tinge of red .
2 .
Bright yellow .
3 .
Yellowish-green .
4 .
Green ; green line very strong .
5 .
Green , with phosphorescence .
6 .
Phosphorescent vacuum ; spark passed between electrodes outside the tube .
The tube was then connected with the pump by opening the tap on B , but , as might have been expected , no trace of gas could be removed .
The tap was again closed , and the tube Avas warmed carefully with a Bunsen 's burner .
The gas was slowly given off from the platinum , and on passing the discharge , colour-changes were observed to take place in the glow , from green to yellow .
From this experiment , it was obvious that the whole of the helium would be absorbed by the platinum splashed off , but it yet remained Some Experiments on Helium .
to be proved that the change in colour in the glow was not due to the absorption of the yellow constituent more quickly than the green The vacuum-tube used in the last experiment was again filled with helium to about 3 mm. pressure , and the discharge was passed till the glow had become green , and the green line had reached its maximum intensity .
Now , if any separation had taken place , the gas which had been absorbed by the platinum should contain a large proportion of the yellow constituent of helium , and should give a yellow glow in a vacuum-tube , even at low pressure .
The remaining gas in the tube was , therefore , removed by pumping , and after closing the tap on B , the gas was driven off from the platinum , by warming with a Bunsen 's flame .
The current was then turned on , and a glow appeared of the green colour invariably shown by helium at low pressure .
The change of colour in the tube during absorption of the helium is , therefore , to be entirely attributed to the lowering of the pressure .
In describing these experiments I have used the term absorption in its general sense , as it is impossible to say at present whether we are dealing with a case of simple occlusion or not .
The platinum , when it is deposited , is black and non-metallic in appearance , but , on heating , it assumes the colour and general character of ordinary platinum , and sometimes breaks away from the tube in thin scales .
The change is probably the same as that which takes place when platinum-black is heated .
In a few of my experiments , I used helium containing traces of hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbon compounds .
In these cases I found that not only was the helium absorbed , but also the other gases , to a greater or less extent .
Hydrogen is readily absorbed , and next in order come carbon compounds and nitrogen .
Argon is taken up only in very small quantity j in fact , this process serves as a method of separation of helium from argon , even when the helium is present to the amount of only 2 per cent. To carry out this separation , the gas is made to circulate at about 3 mm. pressure , through a vacuum-tube of the type used in the last experiment .
To effect this , the Topler 's pump is replaced by a Spren-gel 's pump , arranged as shown in fig 2 , to deliver the gas removed from the vacuum-tube back into the tube C. To regulate the supply of gas entering the apparatus , the tap F was carefully turned , till the gas bubbled slowly through the mercury contained in the small tube D. The tap E served as a by-pass during the preliminary pumping-out of the apparatus , and was closed during the experiment .
By carefully regulating the quantity of gas which entered the apparatus , and the rate of flow of mercury in the Sprengel 's pump , it was possible to maintain a constant pressure in the apparatus for a long time .
Some Experiments on TIelium .
Fig. 2 .
To facilitate the absorption of the gases during the experiment , the vacuum-tube was kept cool by a water-jacket , G , closed at the bottom by a cork fitting tightly round the tube .
When it was necessary to heat the vacuum-tube , the jacket could be loosened from the cork , and slipped up the side-tube B , which was bent round , and extended vertically for about 10 inches in a straight line with the vacuum-tube .
The gas was made to circulate for about six hours , and at the end of that time the tap F was closed , the tap E was opened , and the apparatus thoroughly exhausted .
The jacket G was then raised , and the gas expelled from the platinum by heat was pumped off .
From mixtures containing very little helium , a small quantity of that gas was separated , mixed with a trace of argon .
On the Gases enclosed un Cvystalline Rocks and .
453 Kayser and Friedlander ( ' Chem. Zeitung , ' yoI .
9 , p. 1529 ) have stated that in a vacuum-tube fitted with platinum electrodes , and containing atmospheric argon , the argon became absorbed by the deposited.0platinum , and the tube then showed certain of the helium lines I have never been able to absorb argon to more than the very slightest extent , and though I have often had argon-tubes , which have become black , owing to the deposition of platinum , through which a powerful discharge has passed for many hours , I have never noticed any marked absorption . .
\#166 ; .
# ^ A specimen of argon , the lightest fraction obtained from Professor Ramsay 's diffusion experiments , was treated in the manner just described .
After several hours ' circulation it was found that the gas absorbed by the platinum consisted only of argon , and no trace of helium could be detected .
This process has also been applied to the analysis of the gases from certain mineral springs ; the results of these experiments form the subject of another paper .
" On the Gases enclosed in Crystalline Rocks and Minerals.'* By W. A. Tilden , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received December 19 , 1896 , \#151 ; Read February 4 , 1897 .
It has long been known* that many crystallised minerals contain gas enclosed in cavities in which drops of liquid are also frequently visible .
The liquid often consists of water and aqueous solutions , occasionally of hydrocarbons , and not unfrequently of carbon dioxide , the latter being recognisable by the peculiarities of its behaviour under the application of heat .
The liquid supposed to be carbon dioxide has been found in some cases to pass from the liquid to the gaseous state , and therefore to disappear , and to return from gas to liquid at temperatures lower by two or three degrees than the critical point of carbon dioxide .
This seems to indicate the presence of some incondensable gas , and as H. Davy found nitrogen in the fluid cavities of quartz , it seemed probable that the alteration of the critical point was due to that gas .
My attention was drawn to this subject by the observation that Peterhead granite , when heated in a vacuum , gives off several times its volume of gas , consisting , to the extent of three-fourths of its volume , of hydrogen ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 218 ) .
* The chief literature of this subject is contained in the following papers : Brewster , ' E. S. Edin .
Trans. , ' 1824 , vol. 10 , p. 1 ; 'Edin .
J. Science , ' vol. 6 , p. H5 ; Simmler , * Pogg .
Ann. , ' vol. 105 , p. 460 ; Sorby and Butler , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 17 , p. 291 ; Vogelsang and Gbissler , ' Pogg .
Ann. , ' vol. 137 , pp. 56 and 257 ; Hartley , ' 0 .
S. Trans. , ' 1876 , vol. 1 , p.137 , and vol. 2 , p. 237 , also 1877 , vol. 1 , p. 241 .

