An Account of two Books .
1 .
Ottonis de Guericke EXPERIMENT A NOV A MAGDEBURGICA , de VACUO SPATIO , &amp;c. Amstelodami A. 1672 .
in fol. AFter that the famous Author of this Book hath made a Narrative of the chief Hypotheses and Opinions of both Ancient and Recent Astronomers concerning the Systeme of the world , and represented the great difficulties in the Ptolemaique and Tychonique , and repeated the Answers to the Objections against the Copernican ; he at large gives us his own Thoughts of the Frame and Constitution of the World ; By which World he understands in this Treatise the complex of the Planets , disposed and ordered much after the Copernican way the Sun being seated in the midst , having his Spots about him , and moving and influencing all the rest of the Planets according to their several distances from him ; Saturn making the utmost of all the Planets , and the End of this his World being there , where the diffusive power and virtue of the Sun , the King and Governor of them all , terminates ; which bounds he conjectures to extend themselves , beyond Saturn , to those Fixed Stars that are of the nearer rank to Saturns Orb .
Concerning the Bodies lodged in these Planets , he thinks it consonant to the Power and Wisdom of the Great Creator , that there should be such a variety of them , as to stock each of the said Planets , with creatures differing from those of others : so that nothing of what is in(e .
g.)our Earth or Terr-aqueous Globe , is to be found in any of the other Planets , but that every one of them is stored with peculiar creatures , and even with such reasonable ones , as are of another kind from the Men of our Earth .
As to the Space that is between those his Mundan Bodies ( the Planets , ) he conceives it to be not any thing Material or Corporeal , but a Mere space void of all body , which Space he defines to be as ''twere the Universal Vessel containing all Bodies ; declaring herein his dissent from Des-Cartes , in whose opinion Space or Extension cannot be without an extended substance : whereas he ( our Author ) makes Space indifferent to the being or not being filled with bodies .
Treating of this Space , which he calls Void , and esteems so in its own nature , he makes it Immense and Infinite : And discussing that so much agitated Question , whether there be a Vacuum , he concludes it in the Affirmative , asserting , that not only all those parts of his Space , to which the Esfluvia or Expirations of his World do not reach , are void of all body , but also , that so much of Water , Air , or any other thing as is exhausted out of vessels , no other body succeeding in its room , so much there is of Vacuity there .
To prove which latter , he repeateth in this volume many of those Experiments of his , which the Learned Schottus had publish't before : adding some others , together with some improvements of his Engine ; which was also described by the said Schottus , and in which two very considerable things were deficient , as is observed by Mr. Boyle , the Noble Author of the New Experiments Physico-Mechanical touching the Air , p.6,7 .
in the first English Edition , printed A. 1660 .
at Oxford , and enriched since , by the same , with a Continuation of New Experiments touching the Spring and Weight of the Air , and their effects , printed A. 1669 .
in the same place : Which two Treatises being compared with what hath been heretofore publish't by the aforesaid Schottus , and now by this Author , it will easily appear to sagacious and impartial Readers , to which of these two Gentlemen , Mr. Boyle and Mons. De Gericke , the Curious are most obliged , there having been at first but six experiments made by the latter of them , published by Schottus , in Art Hydrautico pneumatica , about A. 1656 ; which afterwards were called Antiqua by the same , in his Technica Curiosa , printed A. 1662 ; in which are also recorded the other Experiments , called Experimenta Magdeburgica Nova , two years after Mr , Boils lately mentioned first Book ; the Continuation of which hath been abroad three years before this of de Gericke himself , now under consideration .
Concerning our Authors Contrivance of his Virunculus or little Man , made to indicate the Weight of the Air at any time , and to foretell Wind and Weather ; since he thinks fit to make a secret of it , we must let him enjoy it alone , till he shall think good to disclose it .
But touching his Experiment of a New and before never used Windgun , ( as he calls it ) whereby , contrary to the common Wind-guns , in which by store of well-compress 'd Air , Bullets may be shot , he teaches , that by evacuating and weakning the Air , the like effect may be produced ; as to this , I say , the Reader will find the same Principle made use of by Mr. Boyle in his lately-mention 'd Continuation , the fourth Experiment about a New Hydraulo-pneumatical Fountain , made by the Spring of un-compressed Air .
As to the Experiment related by this Author l. 3 .
c. 7 .
of making Water fall in vacuo , with such a noise , as if it were a hard substance , it appears by the Journal of the R. Society , that such an one was made before that Illustrious company by Mr. Boyle some years ago .
For a conclusion of this Account , I shall take notice of an Experiment , mentioned by our Author , l. 5 .
c. 15 ; by which he thinks may be represented the chief Virtues , he enumerates of our Earth , performed by a Globe of Sulphur melted and cooled again , and then perforated , to traject an Iron axis through it for circumvolution ; whereby , attrition being used withal , he affirms that the Impulsive , Attractive , Expulsive , and other virtues of the Earth , as he calls them , may be ocularly exhibited .
How far this Globe and its performance may be confided in , the Trials and Considerations of some Ingenious persons here may perhaps inform us hereafter .
II , Thesaurus MEDICINAE PRACTICAE ; studio &amp; opera Thomae Burnet Scoto-Britanni , M. D. &amp; Medici Regis Ordinarii : Londini impensis R. Boulter apud insigne Capitis Turcae in vico dicto Cornhill , 1672 .
in 40 .
THis Learned and Industrious Author , having considered the several abilities of Physicians , and the different ways of their writings respectively ; some delivering Medical Institutions and Controversies ; some commenting upon Hippocrates and Galen ; others publishing Methods of Curing Diseases and Practical Physicks ; others augmenting the Medical matter , and teaching the way of preparing Medicines ; many improving Anatomy ; and not a few recording Observations and Consultations : Having , I say , considered this variety and diversity , he preferrs the last way of all as appearing to him most usefuf to Mankind ; and therefore undertaketh in this Work of his to give us a Treasure of Practical Physic , collected from the Observations and Advices of a great number of Physical Writers , both Ancient and Modern , such as he esteemed to be most considerable of that profession .
In the doing of which , he enumerates in an Alphabetical order about 410 kinds of Diseases of humane Bodies , partly inward , partly outward ; describing their nature and symptoms , and declaring withal the ways of cure , as they are to be met with in those many Authors , he affirms to have carefully consulted : Of which there are by him alleged no less than 117 .
Amongst all these Chapters of Diseases and their Cures there are interspersed many not common Observations of Nature , such as are : That the force of Castoreum is such , That about the Isles of Fero , the Fishermen , when their Boats are endangered by Whales , throw some of that substance into the Sea-water , which being beaten with it , the Fish immediately sinks to the bottom : That Vinegar may be preserved from all worms , by mixing a little Theriac therewith , and so exposing it in a close vessel to the Sun for a month , daily shaking it , and afterwards percolating it when settled : That there are men , that ruminate properly speaking , like Beasts that chew the Cud , and that some of such persons when opened after death , have either their oesophagus every where fleshy like a Muscle , or their stomach very rough and large ; Where it is also observed , that one of such ruminating men , did not at all chew the cud when sick , just like Oxen and Cows , that are said by country-people to do so neither , when they are not well : That a certain Sea-man , that had lived long at Sea , and contracted from a continual defluxion a Cough , which exercised his Lungs for two years , did at length cast out , together with blood , two considerable ramifications of veins , separate from all parenchymatous matter , showing the corruption of the whole substance of the Lungs : That it hath been observed to be dangerous , to have a vein opened at once in both arms , or leggs , which is here called a Neronian Venae-section , &amp;c.

