162 Prof. Huxley .
Epipubis of th Dog and Fox .
[ Feb. 5 , is the true one , not disproving the presence of nitrogen ; or else the atmosphere which the comet meets is hydrogen and contains no free nitrogen .
II .
" On the Epipubis in the Dog and Fox.'* By T. H.iHuxley Sec. R.S. Received January 30 , 1880 .
In 1871* I gave a brief description of a structure which I had observed in the dog , in the following terms:\#151 ; " In the myology of the dog , the insertion of the tendon of the \#166 ; external oblique muscle of the abdomen presents some interesting peculiarities .
The outer and posterior fibres of this muscle end in a fascia , which is partly continued over the thigh as , and partly forms an arch ( Poupart 's ligament ) over the femoral vessels ; by its inner end it is inserted into the outer side of a triangular fibro-cartilage , the broad base of which is attached to the anterior margin of the pubis , between its spine and the symphysis , while its apex lies in the abdominal parietes .
The internal tendon of the external oblique unites with the tendon of the internal oblique to form the inner pillar of the abdominal ring , and is inserted into the inner side of the triangular fibro-cartilage .
The pectineus is attached to the ventral face of the \#166 ; cartilage ; the outer part of the tendon of the rectus into its dorsal face ; but the chief part of that tendon is inserted into the pubis behind it .
This fibro-cartilage appears to represent the marsupial bone , or cartilage , of the Monotremes and Marsupials .
" The only reference to this statement which I have met with is by Professor Macalister , in his " Introduction to the Systematic Zoology and the Morphology of Vertebrate Animals " ( 1878 ) , p. 265 :\#151 ; " Professor Huxley describes a fibro-cartilaginous 4 marsupial ' above the pubis , from whose anterior surface the pectineus arises .
I have failed to satisfy myself of its existence as a constant structure in many dogs , in the common and Bengal foxes , in the dingo , jackal , Ganis pallipes , and wolf .
" The wording of this passage does not make it quite clear whether the ; writer has not found the structure in any case , but does not mean to deny that it may occur occasionally in the various Canidce he mentions ; or whether he has found it occasionally , but not constantly , in all or some of them .
Under these circumstances , it may be desirable to publish the fact that , having recently dissected , for purposes of comparison , a male and female fox and a male and female dog , I have not had the slightest difficulty in demonstrating the existence of the structure which I described * " Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals , " p. 417 .
1880.1 Prof. Huxley .
Epipubis of the Dog and Fox .
163 .
1871 in all four .
And the only phrase which appears to require modification in that description is the use of the term fibre-cartilage .
I do not remember whether , formerly , 1 submitted the structure to microscopic examination or not ; but in the specimens lately examined , notwithstanding the firmness and density of the triangular plate , it contains no true cartilage cells , but is entirely composed of fibrous bands which lie parallel with one another in the middle of the plate , while , at the thickened edges , they become closely interwoven .
A comparison of this triangular fibrous plate in the fox , with the " marsupial " bones of Phalangista vulpina , shows that the fibrous plate in the former animal exactly answers to the basal part of the " marsupial " bone in the latter .
It may properly , therefore , be termed the epipubic ligament , and must be regarded as a structure of the same order as the rudimentary clavicle and the rudimentary hallux of the Oanidce ; that is to say , as the remains of an organ which was fully developed in the ancestral forms of that group .
It is interesting to remark , in connexion with this interpretation of the facts , that , in the existing Thylacinus , which presents so many curious points of resemblance to the dogs , the epipubis is not ossified .
As , however , the Ganidce have certainly existed since the Eocene epoch , there is no likelihood of the existence of any direct genetic connexion between the dogs and the Thylacines .
The existing carnivorous Marsupialia have evidently all proceeded from ancestral forms , characterised by the possession of a thumb-like hallux , a peculiarity which is presented neither by the dogs , when they possess a hallux , nor by any other Carnivora with pentadactyle hind feet .
Moreover , the early birth of the young and the development of a marsupium in the female , are evidences of the departure of the existing Marsnpialia from the direct line by which the Mammalia have advanced from the omithodelphous type .
That the ancestors of all mammals possessed bony or cartilaginous epipubes is , I think , highly probable , but it does not follow that they had the marsupial method of bearing and nourishing their young .

