VI .
" Some Observations on Birds , chiefly in relation to their Temperature , with Supplementary Additions .
" By JOHN DAVY , M.D. F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received May 26 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) This paper consists of four parts : In part first the author gives the results of his observations on the temperature of the common fowl ( as many as sixty-two ) , made at different seasons of the year , showing that the temperature of this bird ranges from 107 ?
to 109 ?
Fahr. in recto ; that that of the male is a little higher than that of the female , and of both , higher in summer than in winter .
He states that he was induced to pay so much attention to the temperature of the common fowl , from Mr. Hunter having assigned it a temperature no higher than between 103 ?
and 104 ?
, a degree reached by some of the mammalia , and even exceeded .
The second part contains the results of the author 's experiments on the air expired by a certain number of birds , and on the air contained in their airreceptacles and bones .
They are introduced with some observations on the length of time birds are capable of retaining life under water , from which it appears that it differs greatly in different species , varying from ten minutes , as in the instance of the duck , to half a minute , as in the instance of the owl .
From the analysis of the air expired in the act of drowning , it would appear that there is a certain loss of carbonic acid , equivalent to the proportion of oxygen less than exists in the atmospheric air expired , -a loss , it is inferred , owing to absorption by the blood of the gas which has disappeared , as indeed is indicated by the darkness of colour of this fluid , and confirmed by the effects of exhaustion by the air-pump .
A deficiency , too , of carbonic acid was found in the air of the air-recep1865 .
] 337 tacles and in the air contained in the bones , attributable to the same cause .
Of the third part , the subject is pulmonary and cutaneous aqueous exhalation .
From the facts brought forward , and the experiments described , there appears to be proof afforded that birds perspire little and cool slowly , and consequently that their high temperature is partly owing to these two circumstances the one ( the latter ) attributable to their clothing of feathers , the other ( the former ) to the little vascularity of their cutis .
The subject of the fourth part is the kidneys and their excretion .
As these organs are proportionally large in birds , and as their excretion is very much less liquid than that of the mammalia , it is presumed that , from its carrying off less heat , it may be considered an element in the problem of the high temperature of birds , and that as the compound excreted is chiefly urate of ammonia , it may conduce to a less expenditure of oxygen than if urea were a constituent of their urine .
In conclusion the author suggests that the high temperature for which most birds are remarkable ( not all , there being certain exceptions ) may be due to a combination of circumstances , some positive , some negative , the positive chiefly the conversion of oxygen into carbonic acid , the negative those conditions influential mainly by economizing the heat produced or checking its escape .
Further , it is conjectured that there may be other ancillary conditions , such as a powerful heart ensuring a rapid circulation , the peculiar structure of the blood-corpuscles , and the little viscidity of the blood of birds .
Some remarks are added on the pneumatic system of birds , so distinctive of their class , with conjectures on its uses , these in part obscure and seeming to require further research for their elucidation .
The supplementary additions are given chiefly in a tabulated form , of which there are five : The first contains a list of birds examined , altogether 64 , of which number 22 were found to have air in some of their bones , and 42 to be without air in them .
In the second the weight of a certain number of species is given ( 39 ) , and the weight of their feathers , and in most instances of their bones .
In the third the weight of the principal bones of a selected number of species ( 27 ) is stated .
In the fourth the composition of some of the bones , as determined by calcination .
And in the fifth the weight of the principal organs of five species .
With the exception of the last , some brief remarks are appended to each Table .
338 [ June 15 ,

