]\gt ; Etectr Waves round a Con lucting Obstacle .
Bending of Electric Waves rouud a Conducting Obstacle : .kmended Result By H. M. MACDONALD , NI .
A. , F.RS .
eceived May 12 , \mdash ; Read June 11 , 1900 I have recently ( May 3 ) received an intimation from the Secretaries of the Royal Society that Lord Rayleigh has questioned the validity of analysis of the problem of bending of electric round a cotlductin obstacle , the ground of the criticism being the shortness of the wave-length involves that the important harmonics in the nsion are of high order comparable with the ratio of the circumference of the sphere to the wave-Iength , and that for them the approximations in the paper are not valid .
Subsequently I have rned that M. has similar objection .
I have at once to admit the validity of the objection .
As pears that it is still to some degree uncertain what phenomena indicated by theory , I venture to submit the following correction developnlent of my analysis , which ves a solution of the agreeing with Lord Rayleigh 's anticipatio1l ( p. 40 , } from the expression for on p. 254 , it be written ; is riting ' ' Roy .
Soc. , p. .
H. Iacdonald .
The of [ May then is and pntting them Now whencc hence or lvherc Again that is Further , .
1903 .
] Electric a lvhenoe \ldquo ; that is or Hencc that is No for values of which are not to or may replaced by for values of ; further , for of small with , neglecting small quantities , is zero is unity .
Hence where ?
is large , not ith Since is not small , may be ] ) and then 62 Mr. H. M. Macdonald .
The of [ May12 , that is Writing , , the above becomes where If any value of of be chosen , and is written , the quantities , ( can be expressed in the form ) . .
for values of for whioh the series converge ; similarly for , ) .
The group of terms in any of the series etc. , for which this holds for , will contribute nothing to the result unless the coefficient of in the exponent vanishes ; also when the coefficient of in the exponent vanishes and the coefficient of does not , the sum of the corresponding of terms is \ldquo ; the upper or lower sign being taken according as is positive or negative .
* *Lorenz , ' Envres 1903 .
] jctric Waves round a Conducting Obstade .
Now it may be shown that and hence that ' as long and is of higher order than ; also the relation it follows that ' subject to the same limitations .
Furf , her , when is of a order tha ' where , . . .
denote the values of . . . . .
When , writing as long as and is of a higher order ; also ; when is of a lower order than . .
Mr. H. M. Macdonald .
of [ May 12 , lerc T , . .
dcItote the valnes of , , . . .
, when From the expression for it follows that hellcc is itive and increases with , thns lies between and and is positive ; therefore .
and both vanish .
Vhen z is of higher order than hence .
' cfore as illcrease subieot to the tion .
that is of higher order than tends to becomc of the order ) ) of the er lnity , and of the order .
When is of lower orde , it from the relation that is of the order of the order unity , and the order .
These latter couditions also hold when of lower order When is of higher order than is given by is siuh hence II0W *These r ore ivcn by Lorenz , iqWes , ' vol. 1 , pp. 1903 .
] Electric Waurs round a thoreforo is ve nuost ) ) tulity ; there , , diminishes pidly , arc less th unity ) inish pidly as is ve ( co the ) , very it is .
The eries b and } thele tore ) nish .
It is neither for of the time 11 nd .
di ord ) Vhetl ot .
, . .
, ring tive of ordel tring the tion t ) Mr. H. M. Macdonald .
of [ May 12 , negative , and as the valuc of therefore - is , most of an order Since ' is negative the , is , the uishcs , It remains to -poncnt iu thu se ] ) ecomes the coefficient of in vanishes , if utting n this $/ nl of the .
of tcrmb in is bhal whence and the ul the of , therefore , is .
is , bincc , .
but the lerms of highest order , ' cquation cannot be satisliod , the preceding , for .
L valuo of which 1 \fnof ; g not tlbat is of higher ordot 190.3 .
] Electric Waves ronnd a Obstucl the value of , for .
of termb of a from , is iven b very correspondin of in the prcviouH itll equired , of is , therefol.e , uf .
of on .
where that is , , the order adopted , and which values of not near to zero , ) cc.omes on putling .
* lto } A bsorption ' of Gold .
[ May 22 , Therefore , when is not fIhes to the order at least , there no first order effect : point on surface of the tvhich is finite mgular listitncc from the . . .
( : On the of Leaf and the Gold By J. W. MALLET , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University of eceived M Jmle 11 , Atttcntion is drawn to liucb to secnl in gold leaf examined with the microscope ] ) tnsmitted 1 .
These lines to depend on the presence of minutc eads of the metal , nnconneoted with line produced in the of ) eating by tho 5 , tretching , of caklless , of the animal oels of which is placed , thus minntc trough-likc in kles into which the soft is The of minatio of the ) \mdash ; in isible , -red \mdash ; of dlic .
gold hnely divided ondition , in of its

