A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Application of the Conversion of Chlorates and Nitrates into Chlorides , and of Chlorides into Nitrates , to the determination of several equivalent numbers .
" By Frederick Penny , Esq. Communicated by H. Hennell , Esq. F.R.S. The researches which form the subject of this paper were sug ?
gested by an inquiry into the most effectual method of ascertaining the quantity of nitrate of potassa existing in crude saltpetre .
The author found that by the action of hydrochloric acid the nitrate of potassa was converted into the chloride of potassium ; and conversely , that the chloride of potassium might , by the proper regulation of the temperature , be reconverted into the nitrate of potassa by the action of nitric acid .
These mutual conversions afforded excellent means of determining , with great exactness , the relative equivalent numbers , in the theory of definite proportions , belonging to these salts , and to their respective constituent elements .
The author , accordingly , pursued the investigation of these numbers by several suc ?
cessive steps , of which the details occupy the greater part of the present paper .
He first determines the equivalent of chloride of potassium by decomposing chlorateof potassa into oxygen and chloride of potassium ; the proportion between which gives the ratio which the respective equivalent numbers of each hear to one another , and also to that of chlorate of potassa .
The equivalent of nitrate of potassa is next obtained by converting the chlorate and the chloride of potassium into that salt ; and from these data the equivalents of chlorine and of nitrogen are deduced .
A similar train of inquiry is next instituted with the corresponding salts having sodium for their base : chlorate of soda being decomposed into the chloride , and into the nitrate ; nitrate of soda into chloride ; and chloride of so ?
dium into nitrate of soda .
The results of these different series of experiments coincide so closely with one another as mutually to confirm their general accuracy in the most satisfactory manner .
For the purpose of determining the equivalent numbers of the elementary bodies themselves , ( namely , chlorine , nitrogen , potassium , and sodium , ) the author employed the intermedium of silver , the several saline combinations of which with chlorine and with nitric acid were found to afford peculiar advantages for the accurate determination of the relative weights of the constituents of these salts , when subjected to various combinations and decompositions .
The conclusions to which the author arrives with regard to the equivalent numbers for the six elementary bodies in question , tend to corroborate the views of the late Dr. Turner , and to overturn the favourite hypothesis that all equivalent numbers are simple multiples of that for hydrogen .
He finds these numbers to be as follow : Oxygen .
8* Chlorine .
35*45 Nitrogen .
14*02 Potassium .
39*08 Sodium .
23*05 Silver .
107*97 The author intends to pursue these inquiries , by applying similar methods to the investigation of other classes of salts .

