148 Sir la Stability de V Equilibre des Figures Pyriformes .
The numerical solution of the equation furnished by the vanishing of the coefficient corresponding to the third zonal harmonic shows that the critical Jacobian ellipsoid is such that its axes are proportional to 065066 , 0-81498 , 1*88583 ; and that the angular velocity w and ' density p of the liquid are connected by the equation------ 0-14200 , 2rrp This ellipsoid is the longest stable figure of Jacobi 's series .
A figure of the deformation of this critical ellipsoid by the third zonal harmonic is delineated in a plate .
The so-called pear-shaped figure is seen to be longer than was indicated by M. Poincare in his conjectural sketch^ Although this figure is almost certainly stable , absolute proof is still wanting .
This proof can only be obtained by proceeding to a higher degree of approximation .
An attempt is made to obtain this higher approximation , and the cause of failure and the difficulties of the problem are discussed .
" Sir la Stabilite de l'Equilibre des Figures Pyriformes affectdes j par un Mass Fluide en Potation .
" By H. Poincare , !
Foreign Member E.S. Peceived October 29 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) J'ai publie autrefois dans le Tome 7 des ' Acta Mathematica ' uni memoir oil j'etudie diverses figures d'equilibre nouvelles d'une mass !
fluide homogene en rotation .
Presque toutes ces figures sont instables ; !
un d'elles cependant , qui est pyriforme , est tres probablement stable . !
Mais la preuve direct de cette stability no pourrait 6tre obtenue quel par de longs calculs .
Le but du present travail est de faciliter ces !
calculs , en donnant \amp ; la condition de stabilite un form analytique !
aussi simple que possible .
La question cependant rest indecise , parce 1 que les formules analytiques n'ont pas ete reduites en chiffres .
II fallait d'abord obtenir un expression de l'energie de gravitation !
d'une pareille figure en poussant l'approximation plus loin qu'on no !
l'avait fait jusqu'ici .
L'emploi des fonctions de Lam4 peut conduire i au r4sultat , mais on se trouve en presence d'une petite difficult^ .
Le I potentiel d'un ellipsoide , ou d'une couch ellipsoidale , affect des i forms analytiques difffirentes selon que le point envisage est a l in-J terieur ou a l'exterieur de l'ellipso'ide .
II en resulte que dans cbacune i des integrales il faudrait donner 4 la fonction sous le sign J , tantdt S un form pour les parties de la surface pyriforme qui sont au dessous !
de la surface de l'ellipsoide , tantdt un autre form pour les parties I qui sont au dessus .
Mais j'ai reconnu que cette difficult^ est purement | artificielle et qu'on obtiendra encore un resultat final correct en 1 Meeting of November 21 , 1901 .
donnant a ces fonctions sous le sign J , soit la premiere form , soit toujours la second .
En operant de la sort on commet un erreur sir chacune des integrates , mais ces erreurs se compensent complete-ment dans la somme des integrates .
Je me suis attache ensuite a ecrire l'inegalite qui exprime la condition de stabilite , et a reduire aux integrales elliptiques les plus simples toutes les integrales qui figurent dans cette inegalite .
November 21 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. F. W. Dyson , Lieutenant-Colonel David Bruce , R.A.M.C. ( elected 1899 ) , and Mr. A. Smith Woodward were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Major MacMahon , Dr. W. J. Russell , and Dr. A. D. Waller were by ballot elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
The following Papers , received during the Recess , and published in full or in abstract , in accordance with the Standing Orders of Council , were read in title :\#151 ; " The Anatomy and Development of the Stem in the Pteridophyta and Gymnosperms .
" By Edward C. Jeffrey , Ph. D. , Lecturer in the University of Toronto .
Communicated by D. II .
Scott , F.R.S. " A Memoir on Integral Functions .
" By E. W. Barnes , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor A. R. Forsyth , Sc. D. , F.R.S. " On Areal Induction .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. , F.R.S. " Further Observations on Nova Persei .
No. 4 .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. " An Attempt to ascertain the Date of the Original Construction of Stonehenge from its Orientation .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , and F. C. Penrose , F.R.S. VOL. LXIX .
M

