454 Prof. T. Jeffery Parker .
[ Apr. 17 , III .
" Observations on the Anatomy and Development of Apteryx " By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago , Dunedin , New Zealand .
Received March 20 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The chief materials for the present investigation consist of a number of embryos of the three common species of Apteryx , which naturally group themselves into ten stages ( A\#151 ; K ) ; an eleventh stage ( L ) is furnished by a bird a few weeks old , a twelfth ( M ) by the skeleton of an adolescent specimen , and a thirteenth ( N ) and fourteenth ( 0 ) by odd bones of young birds ; the adult may be considered as constituting a fifteenth stage .
The embryos were , for the most part , well preserved , but not sufficiently well for the purposes of exact histological study .
The single embryo belonging to stage A corresponds in most respects to a chick of the fourth day .
The author returns his sincere thanks to the Council of the Royal Society for the grant from which the expenses of the investigation were defrayed , and also to those who have assisted him in various ways .
His paper is illustrated with seventeen plates , depicting the external form and anatomy of the various stages , and a number of new terms are proposed in the description of the skeleton .
The following account is abstracted from the author 's summary of results:\#151 ; External Characters.\#151 ; In stage C , corresponding with a sixth-day chick , there is a well-marked operculum growing backwards from the hyoidean fold , and covering the third ( ?
and fourth ) visceral cleft .
A rudiment of this structure is seen in the preceding-stage .
In stage A , the limbs have already attained their permanent position , so that , if the backward shifting of the appendages so noticeable in the chick occurs in Apteryx , it must take place at an unusually early period .
From the first appearance of the feather papillae there are well-marked pterylse and apteria , most of which can be made out with tolerable distinctness in the adult .
The wing of the adult has a well-marked pre- and post-patagium , and amongst its feathers may be distinguished nine or ten cubitals , two or three metacarpals , one mid-digital , and a row of tectrices majores .
The barbicels of the feathers are slightly curved .
The fore-limb passes through a stage in which it is a tridactyle paw with subequal digits , followed by one in which it is a typical 1890 .
] On the Anatomy and Development of Apteryx .
455 win\lt ; * with hypertrophied second and partially atrophied first and third digits .
The nostril has acquired its final position at the end of the beak in stage E ; up to the middle of incubation the whole respiratory region of the olfactory chamber , from the anterior nares to the commencement of the turbinals , is filled with a solid mass of epithelial cells , through which a passage is formed at a later period .
At no stage is there any trace of the caruncle or " egg-breaker " at the end of the beak .
The Law of Growth.\#151 ; A number of details are given with respect to the various proportions of the different parts at different ages .
The Specific and Sexual differences observable in the three species are described .
The Skull.\#151 ; In stages A and B the only cranial rudiments present are the parachordal plates , continued cephalad into the prochordal plate , and the visceral arches .
In stage C the trabeculae have appeared , and are continuous with the parachordals ; the prochordal plate sends off paired processes directly upwards in the mesencephalic flexure and laterad of the third nerves .
In stages E and E the pituitary fossa is pierced by three apertures in longitudinal series\#151 ; the anterior , middle , and posterior basicranial fontanelles .
The middle fontanelle has disappeared in stage G , but the anterior and posterior are still recognisable in stages H and I. Through the anterior fontanelle the pituitary radicle passes .
The medio-dorsal portion of the dorsum sellas arises as a distinct chondrite , the prochordal cartilage , which in stages E and G is quite separate both from the trabecular and from the parachordal regions of the skull .
None of the stages show a separate prenasal cartilage or inter-trabecular ; if present as a distinct chondrite it certainly does not extend further backwards than the anterior presphenoidal region ; the posterior presphenoidal region is clearly formed from the trabeculae .
In stages D , E , and F the presphenoid is a vertical plate of considerable antero-posterior extent , and gives origin to a pair of large orbitosphenoids .
In stage A the orbitosphenoids have begun to atrophy , and in later stages are reduced to narrow bars of cartilage , the presphenoid at the same time undergoing a great diminution in antero-posterior extent .
The olfactory capsules extend backwards to the optic foramina mesiad of the eyes ; there is at no stage an interorbital septum .
The turbinals are unusually well developed , and are divisible into anterior , middle , posterior , anterior accessory , ventral accessory , and mesoturbinal folds .
Alone amongst these , the anterior accessory turbinal is formed as a hollow invagination of the wall of the olfactory capsule , 45G Prof. T. Jeffery Parker .
[ Apr. I7y not as a plate-like ingrowth ; its cavity contains a prolongation of the antrum of Highmore .
There are paired , rod-like Jacobson 's cartilages , lying one on each side of the rostrum in the vomerine region .
In late embryonic life , and even in the adult , the quadrate articulates with the roof of the tympanic cavity by a double articular surface .
The hyoidean portion of the tongue-hone chondrifies late\#151 ; subsequently to stage G\#151 ; and never ossifies .
The Vertebral Column.\#151 ; As in other Birds , the atlas arises from a post-occipital intercentrum and a pair of neurochondrites .
The axis consists originally of seven pieces .
In both vertebra ?
each of these elements ossifies separately .
The way in which the notochord is constricted by the ingrowing centrochondrites differs greatly in the various regions .
The atlas and axis in a newly-hatched embryo differ far less than in the adult from those of the other Ratitse .
Two intercentra are described in the caudal region .
A new method of writing the vertebral formula of birds is adopted .
The Sternum and Ribs.*\#151 ; The development of these parts seems to show that the costal sternum does not originate by the union of all four sternal ribs , hut that it extends backwards independently of the third and fourth ribs , meeting them in turn and becoming united with them by joints .
In some adult specimens the sternum bears a low , median ridge , probably to be looked upon as a vestigial keel .
The form of the adult sternum is very variable .
The Shoulder Girdle.\#151 ; Up to stage H the shoulder girdle is a single cartilage ; during that stage the procoracoid and coracoid are differentiated by fenestration .
The procoracoid degenerates into a ligament , which is sometimes present in the adult .
The coracoid fenestra may persist or may be filled up by a preaxial extension of the coracoid .
Acromial , procoracoid , and acrocoracoid tuberosities are present .
The coraco-scapular angle varies from 150 ' to 122 ' .
In stage E the scapula is curved backwards over the ribs .
In the same stage the coraco-vertebral angle is 35 ' ; by stage H it has increased to 90 ' .
The adult shoulder girdle is subject to great variation , both in form and size .
The Fore-limb.\#151 ; In the carpus a radiale , an ulnare , and the three * It is mentioned by the author that uncinate processes ( or " uncinates " ) are present in the ribs of jD inornis , some points in the structure of the foot of which bird are also described .
1890 .
] On the Anatomy and Development of Apteryx .
preaxial distalia are distinguishable in early stages .
The distalia usually concresce with the second and third metacarpals to form a carpo-metacarpus , with which the radiale and ulnare may or may not become united .
The pollex usually atrophies at an early stage , but a vestige of it may persist .
The manus is fairly constant in structure in A. australis and A. Oweni , hut is very variable in A. Bulleri .
The Pelvic Girdle.\#151 ; The pubis and ischium are nearly vertical in stages D and E , and gradually become rotated backwards .
The post-ilium is already fully formed in stage D , the pre-ilium not-until stage G. The pectineal process is ossified equally from the ilium and the pubis .
The Hind-limb.\#151 ; In the tarsus a tibiale , a fibulare , and a single distale are distinguishable in stages D and E. In F a post-axial eentrale appears in the rudiment of the mesotarsal articular pad ; in G it becomes chondrified , and in the adult ossified .
A smaller preaxial centrale is first seen as a distinct cliondrite in stage L ; in the adult of A.australis and A : Haasti ( ?
) it was observed as a separate bone in the preaxial moiety of the mesotarsal pad .
In stage D the fifth digit is represented by an elongated metatarsal ; in E this has diminished in size , and in F undergone almost complete atrophy .
Muscles of the Wing.\#151 ; The following muscles are present in the wing in addition to those described by Owen :\#151 ; Brachialis anticus , supinator , pronator , anconeus , flexor profundus interims , extensor carpi ulnaris , extensor metacarpi radialis brevis , extensor , indicis proprius , and flexor digitorum profundus .
There may also be a brachialis anticus accessorius , an interosseus dorsalis , and probably a flexor carpi radialis .
The biceps arises from the acrocoracoid , the triceps by a long* head from the scapula and by a short head from the humerus .
The Brain.\#151 ; The mesencephal is unusually small from the first ; in stages D\#151 ; F the optic lobes are dorsal ; in G they become lateral by the transverse extension of the optic commissure or median portion of the roof of the mesoccele ; in H they are already ventral , although larger proportionally than in the adult .
The diencephal becomes tilted backwards in later stages , its dorsal wall becoming posterior and the foramen of Monro postero-dorsal instead of antero-dorsal .
The anterior commissure and corpus callosum are large .
The cerebral hemispheres are of unusual proportional length , and partly cover the cerebellum .
The Eye.\#151 ; A pecten is present during late embryonic life .
458 On the Anatomy and Development of Apteryx .
[ Apr. 17 , Phytogeny.\#151 ; The following characters support the view that Apteryx is derived from a typical avian form capable of flight:\#151 ; ( a. ) The presence of an alar membrane or patagium .
( 6 .
) The presence of pterylae and apteria .
( c. ) The presence of remiges and of tectrices majores .
( d. ) The attitude assumed during sleep .
( e. ) The presence of two articular facets on the head of the quadrate .
( / .
) The presence of a pygostyle .
( g. ) The extreme variability of the sternum , shoulder girdle , and wing , indicating degeneration .
( h. ) The occasional occurrence of a median longitudinal ridge or vestigial keel on the sternum .
( if The position of the shoulder girdle and sternum in stage E. ( jf The presence of vestigial acromial , procoracoid , and acro-coracoid processes .
( kf The fact that the skeleton of the fore-limb is that of a true wing in stage E. ( 1 .
) The early assumption of undoubted avian characters in the pelvis .
( m. ) The typically avian characters , both as to structure and development , of the vertebral column and hind-limb .
( nf The fact that the brain passes through a typical avian stage with lateral optic lobes .
( o. ) The relations of the subclavian muscle .
On the other hand , the total absence of rectrices tells against this view .
The following characters indicate derivation from a more generalised type than existing birds :\#151 ; ( a. ) The characters of the chondrocranium , especially in the earlier stages .
Many of these peculiarities , e.g. , the absence of an interorbital septum , may , however , be adaptive , and correlated with the diminished eyes and the enlarged olfactory organs .
{ 6 .
) The presence of an operculum in early stages .
As , however , this structure has not been described in Reptiles , it either proves nothing or too much .
( c. ) The presence of a well-marked procoracoid in comparative^ late embryonic life .
( df The characters of the pelvis .
On the other hand , in the following characters , Apteryx exhibits greater specialisation than other birds :\#151 ; 1890 .
] Presents .
459 ( a. ) The early assumption of their permanent position by the limbs .
( b. ) The late appearance and obviously degraded character of the hyoid portion of the tongue-bone .
( c. ) The position of the nostrils and the peculiar mode of development of the respiratory section of the nasal chamber .
( d. ) The total absence of clavicles .
Such characters as the position of the basi-pterygoid processes , the broad vomer , and the presence of Jacobson 's cartilages , being paralleled in existing Carinatas , some of them even in Passerines , can hardly be considered as of fundamental importance , since they may be derived from a proto-carinate or from an early typical carinate stock .
Before considering the peculiarities in the development of the sternum as of fundamental importance , it will be necessary to study that of the flightless Carinatae , and especially of String ops .
The general balance of evidence seems to point to the derivation of both Ratitae and Carinatae from an early group of typical flying birds \#166 ; or Proto- Garinatce .
IV .
" Notes on some peculiar Relations which appear in the Great Pyramid from the precise Measurements of Mr. Flinders Petrie .
" By Capt. Downing , R.A. Communicated by Sir F. Abel , F.R.S. Received March 13 , 1890 .
Presents , April 17 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Vol. IX .
No. 79 .
4to .
[ Baltimore ] 1890 ; Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Eighth Series .
No. 3 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1890 .
The University .
Berlin :\#151 ; Physikalische Gesellschaft .
Verhandlungen .
1889 .
8vo .
Berlin 1890 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology , Harvard College .
Memoirs .
Vol. XVII .
No. 1 .
4to .
Cambridge 1890 .
The Museum .
Catania:\#151 ; Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali .
Atti .
Ser. 4 .
Vol. I. 4to .
Catania 1889 .
The Academy .
Dublin : Royal Historical and Archaeological Association of Ireland .
Journal .
Yol .
IX .
No. 81 .
8vo .
Dublin 1890 .
The Association .
2 M VOL. XLVII .

