]\gt ; On the Distribu tion of the Scattered Rontgen By J. A. CROWTHER , , Fellow of St. John's- College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. .
J. Thomson .
Receiwed February 15 , \mdash ; Read March 21 , 1912 .
) Introduction .
The fact that a substance through which Rontgen rays from a focus tube are passing becomes itself a source of secondary Rontgen rays has long been known .
The most probable explanation was given by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson .
If a Rontgen pulse is due to the acceleration of a charged electron , then if the electrons in the atom are to move under the action of the electromagnetic forces in the wave front of the primary ntgen pulse , their motion will be accelerated during the passage of the latter through the atom , and they will themselves become sources of secondary Rontgen radiation .
Considering only a single electron , the intensity of the secondary radiation at any angle with the direction of motion will be proportional to If the primary beam is unpolarised , the motion of the eIectron may have any direction in the plane at right angles to the primary beam .
The intensity of the scattered radiation in the direction with the primary beam is thus the mean of all the values of for that direction .
It can easily be shown that this is proportional to .
If is the intensity of the scattered radiation in the direction , we thus have .
( 1 ) This expression gives a distribution symmetrical about the primary beam and about a plane through the radiator at right angles to the primary beam .
There is a minimum of radiation in this plane , and a maximum , equal to twice the minimum , at right angles to this plane , both in the forward and backward direction .
Prof. C. G. Barkla some time ago found that the radiation coming back from a radiator in directions close to the primary beam was nearly twice as great as that in a direction at right angles to it , and thus obtained evidence in favour of the theory .
In the course of some experiments on the energy of the scattered radiatio was found necessary to know the actual distribution of the radiation round the radiator , and experiments were made to determine it .
narrow pencil of Bontgen rays was allowed to fall on a suitable radiator , * J. A. Crowther , ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc November , 1910 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 29 .
On the Distribution the ttered Rontgen Radiation .
mounted on the axis of a wheel an ionisation chamber .
By turning the wheel , the latter could be placed at different angles with the radiator , and the intensity of the scattered radiation measured at different angles with the imary beam .
It was found that the theoretical expression did not exactly represent the experimental results .
The distribution of the radiation which came back from the radiator agreed closely with predicted by the theory , but , at any given angle with the primary beam , there was alwa .
more radiation scattered in the forward direction than in the vard .
This dissymmetry between the two sides of the radiator increased as the direction of the primary beam was more nearly approached .
Thus for an aluminium radiator there was , at an angle of with the primary beam , nearly three times as much scattered radiation in the forward as in the reverse direction .
The actual distribution in this case is shown in fig. 1 .
The value of the intensity of the scattered radiation in any direction is represented by the length of the vector drawn in that direction from the centre .
The full curve shows the distribution actually observed .
The inner broken curve represents the theoretical distribution .
For the return radiation , the two curves are practically coincident .
Somewhat later Prof. C. G. Barkla*published an account of a similar series of experiments .
He only observed dissymmetry at angles of less than with the primary beam , but Owen , who repeated my experiments in the Cavendish Laboratory , confirmed the results I had obtained .
He also found that the dissymmetry decreased as the primary rays became harder .
We shall return to this lesnlt later .
The fact that the distribution of the return radiation agreed so closely with that predicted by the theory of scattering naturally suggested that the excess of secondary radiation on the forward side of the radiator be due to some other cause of secondary radiation .
Experiments made on the absorption of the scattered radiation in the forward and backward directions failed to reveal any sppreciable difference in the character of the rays in the two directions .
The coefficient of absorption was in each case very nearly the same as that of the primary beam .
It was ested that a possible source of this excess radiation might be Barkla aAyres , Owen , Proc CPhil S ' 1912 .
] Distribution of the Scattered Rontgen possibility of the dissymmetry in the scattered radiation being due to irregular refractions if we could assume that only a small fraction of the pl.imary Rontgen rays were thus affected .
Only a small fraction of the encounters between the Rontgen rays and the atoms result in ionisation .
If we suppose that in.a similar way only a small fraction of the collisions result in any appreciable deflection of the primary ray it might be possible to explain the results obtained .
I am indebted for this suggestion to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , to whom I wish to express my best thanks .
Let us assume , however , for the present that the excess of the forward over the returned scattered radiation is due to some effect other than the symmetrical scattering of the primary beam .
It seemed desirable that further and more accurate experiments should be made to determine its exact distribution and its variation with the hardness of the primary rays .
tal Details .
A brief description of the apparatus may be desirable , as it differs in some respects from that described in the previous papers .
The radiator ( fig. 2 ) is carl'ied on an alnminium frame , the different parts of the framework being well out of the path of the primary rays .
The framework , which carried a pointel moving over a circular scale , could rotate about the axis , and the radiator could thus be set at any desired angle with the primary beam .
The primary beam from the focus tube was confined to a narrow rectangular pencil , by means of the lead , rectangular in Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the shape .
It was found experimentally that there was very little radiation outside the geometrical cross-section of the beam as so defined .
Two equal and similar ionisation chambers , were fitted up with aluminium leaf electrodes as described in the previous papers .
They were mounted on carriers running on a circular geometrical slide , the centre of which was immediately beneath the axis of the radiator .
Each of the chambers was connected to a separate tilted electroscope in the way previously described , so that it could be moved freely round the circular slide without disturbing the connections .
Each ionisation chamber had an aperture of cm .
in width , and was placed 15 cm .
from the centre of the radiator B. The angle subtended at the radiator by the aperture was therefore about .
The ratio of the ionisation currents in the two chambers for equal intensities of radiation entering them was determined experimentally by placing them at equal angles with the primary beam , and on opposite sides of it .
The ratio was found to be constant for all angles .
The distribution of the scattered radiation is thus symmetrical on each side of the primary beam .
In performing the experiments , one of the two chambers , say , was placed at an angle of with the direction of the beam .
The other chamber was moved round to the angle at which it was desired to measure the intensity of the scattered radiation .
The radiator was then turned so that its normal bisected the angle between the secondary beams entering the two chambers , that is to say the angle in the figure .
It can easily be seen that in this position the lengths of path in the radiator of the two secondary beams are the same .
The two beams therefore undergo the same relative absorption , and no further account need be taken of this factor .
This adds considerably to the convenience and accuracy of the experiment , as it is difficult to keep the hardness of the focus tube quite constant over a series of experiments .
Let be the intensity of the scattered radiation entering the ionisation chamber when its axis is inclined at an angle with theprimary beam .
The ratio of the two ionisation currents ( corrected for the small difference between the two chambers when subject to the same intensity of radiation , as explained above ) gives the value of the ratio of .
Since the areas of the apertures of the two chambers are the same , this ratio is also a measure of the intensity of the secondary radiation per unit area in the two directions .
There is a certain amount of ionisation in the two chambers in the absence of the radiator ; this can be measured separately , and allowed for .
It is principally due to the scattered Rontgen radiation from the air traversed 1912 .
] of the Scattered Rontgen by the primary beam , and is only very appreciable at very small angles with the primary rays .
The first experiments were made with a radiator of alunninium foil .
Subsequently , radiators made by soaking best Swedish filter paper in paraffin wax were employed .
These have a much smaller coefficient of absorption for the rays than the aluminium , and it is possible , therefore , to obtain far more secondary radiation from them than from aluminium .
They were therefore principally employed in the ations which follow .
Rcsnlts .
In Table I are given the results obtained with a radiator of filter paper cm .
in thickness .
The first column gives the direction with the primary beam at which intensity was measured .
The columns give the value of the ratio at those angles for primary rays of different hardness .
The hardness of the primary beam is fixed by the th of the spark-gap ( measured between two brass spheres ) which is just sufficient to extinguish the focus tube when connected across its terminals .
The length of this spark-gap in centimetres stands at the head of the column to which it refers in the table .
The last column of the table gives the value of the ratio of the intensity per unit area of the scattered radiation in the direction to that at angles to the primary beam , deduced from equation ( 1 ) , p. 478 .
For brevity , we shall refer to this as the theoretical value .
It is , of course , independent of the hardness of the primary rays .
Table II gives the results of experiments made with filter-paper radiators of different thicknesses .
In these experiments the two ionisation chambers were fixed at angles of and respectively , and the hardness of the bulb was kept as constant as possible , with an equivalent spark-gap of about cm .
The first column gives thickness of the radiator in centimetres , Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the the second the corresponding values of the to .
It will be seen that , within the limits of the experimental error , the ratio is independent of the thickness of the radiator .
I have shown in a previous paper* that the intensity of the radiation scattered at an angle of with the primary beam is simply proportional to the thickness of the radiator .
It follows , therefore .
that the intensity of the radiation at an angle of with the primary beam , and therefore also the intensity of what we have called the excess radiation , is also proportional to the thickness of the radiator .
Table II.\mdash ; Variation in the Ratio Table \mdash ; Aluminium Badiator .
for Filter-paper Badiators of Different Spark Gap cm .
Thickness .
Equivalent Spark Gap cm .
The , figures in Table I give directly the intensity of the scattered Bontgen radiation across an aperture of fixed area , placed so that the line joining its centre to the radiator makes an angle with the direction oi the primary beam .
If the primary rays are unpolarised , the intensity of the scattered radiation at an angle with the primary beam is independent of the plane in which it is measured .
The rays from most focus tubes show a certain amount of polarisation ; for the bulb used in these experiments it amounted to about 8 per cent. In order to reduce the effect as far as possible , the focus tube was placed so that the stream of cathode rays in it was at right angles to the plane in which the measul.ements were made .
In this position the effect of the admixed polarised rays would be to add to both numerator and denominator of the ratio to a small constant fraction depending on the quantity of polarised radiation present , and thus to reduce slightly the theoretical value .
The maximum correction for the bulb used did not amount to more than 4 per cent. .
A. Crowther , ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc , vol. 16 , p. 366 .
1912 .
] bution of the ttered Rontgen Allowing , therefore , when necessary for the polarisation , we can now proceed to calculate from our results the whole intensity of the Bontgen radiation scattered by the radiator at an angle with the primary beam .
Let be the energy of the scattered radiation included within a cone of angle and increment .
We will call the whole intensity of the radiation in the direction .
The area swept out by this cone on a sphere of radius passing through the windows of the two ionisation chambers is Now if is the area of the window of the ionisation chamber , supposed small enough to be included in this ] , the intensity of the rays entering the ionisation chamber is equal to But , the area of the window , is constant , and is constant .
We may write , therefore , constant ) .
To obtain from the readings in Table I , we must multiply by the corresponding values of In the same way if we denote by the whole of the true scattered radiation ( i.e. the radiation scattered in accordance with the theory ) included in the hollow cone of angle and increment , we have constant ) , where is the intensity of this radiation entering the ionisation chamber in the direction .
In order to find therefore , we have to multiply the values given in the last column of Table I by the corresponding value of The difference between the values of and for any ooiven angle gives the amount of the secondary radiation which has still to be explained .
Let us denote the intensity of this excess radiation in the direction .
Then The various stages of the calculation for the case of a radiator of filter paper of thickness cm .
and for an equivalent of cm .
are given in Table III .
The first column of this table gives the angle at which the measurements of were made .
The second column gives the corresponding value of in terms of , the radiation at right to the primary beam , taken from Table I. The third column contains the values of .
As we have shown above this is proportional to .
The fourth column gives the corresponding value of deduced from ( 1 ) .
The difference between them , given in the fifth column of the table , gives the magnitude of the effect which remains to be explained .
In other words , assuming that the Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Feb. 15 , distribution of the scattered radiation is that given by ( 1 ) , p. 478 , the fifth column of Table III gives the distribution of the secondary radiation whose origin is still to be explained .
Table III.\mdash ; Filter-paper Radiator .
Equivalent Spark Gap cm .
I. Angle of measurement of scattered radiation .
II .
Values of III .
multiplied by to obtain the lvhole radiation between and IV .
Value of same quantity on simple theory of scattering .
V. Difference between Columns III and IV , giving excess radiation .
VI .
Value of , where VII .
Ratio of Columns V and VI .
These operations are represented graphically in fig. 3 .
Th lower unbroken curve gives the relation between , the intensity of the scattered radiation on the theory of scattering , and .
The upper unbroken curve represents the experimental curve for the measured radiation .
The difference between the ordinates of these two curves is therefore the value of the excess radiation for the angle at which the ordinates are drawn .
This difference is represented on three times the vertical scale of the other by the broken curve in the figure .
This broken curve therefore represents the distribution of the excess radiation .
It will be seen that it rises rapidly at first to a sharp maximum at an angle of about with the direction of the primary beam , and then falls , at first rapidly and then more slowly , to a value which approaches zero as approaches We have , of course , tacitly assumed , in making our calculations , that the intensity of the excess radiation is inappreciable at angles of and more with the primary beam .
That this is practically the case is shown by the fact that all the experiments have proved that the distribution of the scattered radiation at angles of and above is very closely in agreement with the distribution calculated from equation ( 1 ) . .
J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Feb. 15 , are all very similar in shape .
As the rays get harder , however , two changes occur : ( 1 ) the whole area of the curve gets less , that is to say the total amount of the excess radiation decreases , and ( 2 ) the maximum of the curve gets nearer and nearer to the primary beam .
These curves enable us to explain the results obtained by Owen for hard rays .
With his apparatus , he was unable to make experiments at angles less than with the primary beam .
Drawing an ordinate at it will be seen that the of the ordinate , which measures the excess radiation over the theoretical value and therefore the dissymmetry in the position , rapidly diminishes as the hardness of the rays increases .
For rays of an equivalent spark-gap of 4 cm .
it is already almost inappreciable , and thus , for primary lays of this hardness , the distribution of the radiation at angles greater than would be that of the simple scattered radiation .
There would be no appreciable dissymmetry .
The more complete curve given in fig. 4 shows that there is , even for rays of this hardness , a considerable amount of excess radiation , but the maximum is close to the primary beam .
The actual dissymmetry observed at any therefore depends upon two factors:\mdash ; ( a ) The whole area of the curve , and ( b ) The position of the maximum of the curve .
Measurements made at an angle of or less would show an actual increase in the dissymmetry as the hardness of the rays increased .
Distribution of the Excess diation .
We must now proceed to consider the shape of these distribution curves more closely .
It may be noted in that as these curves represent the difference of two curves their accuracy diminishes very rapidly when this difference becomes small compared with either of the curves .
Owing to the small amount of scattered radiation entering the ionisation chambers under the conditions of the experiment , and the difficulty of keeping the conditions quite constant during the experiments , it would be futile to expect an accuracy of more than about 2 per cent. or 3 per cent. in the measurements of the intensity of radiation .
An error of this amount in the measurement at an angle of would introduce an error of as much as 20 per cent. in the difference we are measuring .
We shall therefore confine our attention to angles of less than , where the difference to be measured is relatively greater and the proportionate error correspondingly less .
Considering the curves of fig. 4 in detail , one may note their general resemblance to the curves representing the distribution of a parallel pencil of 1912 .
] Distribution of the Scattered Rontgen diation .
-rays after passing through a thin sheet of matter .
The author has shown that this case may be represented closely by the expressions given on p. 480 , based on the theorem of Lord Rayleigh on random displacements .
If the present curves are to be of this form , the intensity of the excess radiation must be expressible in the form , ( 3 ) where has been written for , and is a constant .
It is evident that is the ratio of the whole of the excess radiation round the radiator to the intensity , , of the scattered radiation entering the ionisation chamber at right angles to the primary beam .
Writing for the expression we see that if ( 3 ) expresses the actual experimental distribution of the excess radiation we must have , a constant for all values of In order to determine the value of for a given experimental curve it is most convenient to consider the position of the maximum .
with respect to and to zero , we have , so that .
( 4 ) The value of for which the excess radiation reaches a maximum can be found from the experimental curves .
Taking the case represented in this maximum occurs at an angle of or radian ; the value of is , therefore , .
Substituting in the formula we obtain the values of given in Column 6 of Table III .
The last column of this table contains the values of , or K. We have shown that if our experimental curves are expressible by equation ( 3 ) this ratio must be constant .
Similarly if this ratio is constant we may assume that the distribution of the excess radiation is represented by this expression .
The last column of Iable III shows how nearly this is the case : The agreement is , on the whole , satisfactory .
There is no systematic variation from the mean value as increases , and the fiuctuations from the mean are not greater than might have been reasonably expected from tlIe nature of the experiments .
The calculations from the othel .
sets of observntions showed a similar agreement .
Similar experiments and calculations were also made for an aluminium radiator .
The results are given in Table .
The angle of maximum radiation is much greater for the filter-paper radiators , and the whole area of the curve is much larger .
The agreement between the experimental and theoretical curves is , , equally satisfactory .
We may conclude then that the distribution curves for the excess radiation have the form we have suggested for them , and that the intensity of the excess radiation at an angle can be represented by equation ( 3 ) .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
the [ Feb. 15 , Constants of the Curves .
values of the various constants of this expression depend upon ( 1 ) the nature of the radiator , and ( 2 ) the hardness of the exciting rays .
So far as they have been determined they are given in Table I. Equivalent spark gap of focus tube .
II . .
the angle at which reaches its maximum value .
II1 .
Corresponding value of oonstant .
IV .
Corresponding value of constant K. V. Ratio of whoie excess radiation to whole scattered radiation .
VI .
Coefflcient of excess radiation see p. 491 ) .
The first part of the table deals with the radiators of waxed filter paper ; the last row refers to a ladiator of aluminium .
The first column of the table gives the equivalent spark-gap of the } tube with which the experiments were made .
The second gives the angle at which the excess radiation reached its maximum value , and the third the corresponding value of the constant It will be seen that , as the spark-gap increased , the maximum of the excess radiation moved in towards the direction of the primary beam , and the value of in consequence diminished .
Comparing the results for filter paper and aluminium it will be seen that the maximum occurs much further out for aluminium than for filter paper .
Taking the case of incident rays of equal hardness , it may be noticed that the ratio of the values of for aluminium and filter paper is or .
This is very nearly the ratio of the densities of the two radiators .
The value of , which is proportional to the whole energy of the excess radiation , is given in the fourth column of Table V. It will be seen that ,1912 .
] Distribution of the Scattered Rontgen diation .
it decreases as the primary get harder .
It will be noticed also that the value for aluminium is more than ten times that for the filter paper .
Experiments with other radiators of higher atomic weight are very desirable .
Owing to their high coefficients of absorption , and to the presence of fluorescent radiation in such large amounts as to mask almost completely the radiation we wish to measure , it is difficult to make the measurements required with any degree of accuracy .
Our experiments show that the excess radiation is not proportional to the density , the emission per unit mass four times as great for aluminium as for filter paper .
of the The secondary Rontgen radiation round a radiator ( in the absence of the homogeneous secondary radiation which is distributed , as we have previously shown , uniformly round the radiator ) can thus be represented as the sum of two radiations , the scattered radiation distributed in accordance with ( 1 ) , p. 478 , and the excess radiation given by equation ( 3 ) .
We can calculate from our results the intensities of these two radiations relative to each other and to the .
primary beam .
Let and be the whole intensities of the excess and scattered radiations respectively given out by the radiator .
From p. 489 we have We have seen that we may regard the intensity as due almost entirely to the true scattered radiation .
Calling 2S the angle subtended at the centre of the radiator by the window of the ionisation chamber ( radian in these experiments ) we have on evaluating the integrals .
Thus KS .
The values of are iven in the fourth column of Table , the corresponding values of in the fifth column of the same table .
For filter paper the energy of the excess radiation is only a small fraction of that of the scattered radiation .
It is much more important in the case of aluminium .
The ratio decreases as the primary rays become harder .
of the Scattered Radiation .
In order to calculate this it is necessary to know the ionisation produced by the primary beam falling upon the radiator in terms of the intensity entering the standard chamber .
This can be done directly by turnin the chamber until its angle with the primary beam is zero ; the primary Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the [ Feb. 15 , then pass directly down the chamber .
Tt is , of course , necessary that the window of the chamber should be large enough to include the whole cross-section of the primary beam .
The greater intensity of the primary rays necessilates the addition of a large capacity to the primary electroscope system .
The ratio of the capacities of the two systems can be obtained by the method described by Norman Campbell .
Let be the capacities of the primary and secondary systems , and the ratio of their rates of charging up .
Then if is the intensity of the primary radiation , It must be noted that is not the whole scattered radiation between the angles , and , as the aperture of the ionisation chamber does not completely surround the primary beam .
If is the angle subtended at the radiator by the length of the apertul.e ( at right angles to the plane of measurement ) , the whole intensity of the radiation scattered between these angles is greater than in .
the ratio In order to eliminate the correction for absorption of the rays the radiator was inclined to the primary beam at an angle of .
The paths of the primary and secondary beams were then equal in the radiator .
The effective thickness of the radiator ( waxed filter paper ) in this position was cm .
The intensity of the scattered radiation has been shown to be proportional to the thickness of material traversed by the primary rays .
We may therefore write where is a constant which we may call the coefficient of scattering .
Substituting from above we have , For the present experiments we have radians , cm .
Inserting these values in the equation we obtain for the coefficient of scattering , , the value As the density of the filter-paper radiators is almost exactly unity , this value of is also the value of the coefficient of scattering per unit mass .
It has been thought that the mass coefficient should be independent of the nature of the radiator .
Recent experiments of the author have shown that this is not the case .
The amount of radiation scattered increases with the 1912 .
] Distribution of the Scattered Rontgen Radiation .
atomic weight of the radiator .
Thus , the mass coefficient of the scattering being for filter paper , for aluminium it is , for copper and nickel about , and for tin as as o , more than five times as great as for filter paper .
Ihese results have important bearings on the constitution of the atom .
of Excess Radiation .
Knowing the intensity of the scattered radiation we can calculate that of the excess radiation in terms of the primary radiation .
We have shown in Table II that the ratio of the excess radiation to the scattered radiation was independent of the thickness of the radiator .
We have already seen that we can write in the form , where is a constant .
It follows , therefore , that we may also write the whole intensity of the excess radiation in the form where may be called the coefficient of the excess radiation .
We can then write The value of the latter ratio is }iven in Table .
The corresponding values of the coefficient are given in the last column of that table .
Unlike the coefficient of scattering , it is not independent of the hardness of the primary rays , but decreases as the primary rays get harder .
With the ionisation chamber in the position , the coefficient of absorption of the primary rays in the substance of the radiator can be found by interposing different thicknesses of the substance in the path of the primary beam .
The coefficient of absorption for rays with an equivalent spark-gap of cm .
in the waxed paper is cm .
The secondary ontgen radiation round a radiator , in the absence of any homogeneous secondary radiation , has been shown to be divisible into two parts : the scattered radiation distributed in accordance with the expressions deduced from the usual theory of scattering , and ( 2 ) an additional or excess radiation of the same quality .
An expression has been deduced for the ibution of this excess radiation , and the constants of the expression determined for different radiators and different qualities of the primary rays .
Experiments have also been made to determine the energy of each type of radiation in terms of that of the other and of the primary beam .
VOL. LXXXTI.\mdash ; A. 2 On .
the .
Distribution of the Scattered Rontgen diation , It would perhaps lie premature to put forward at the present moment , any suggestion as to the nature and origin of the excess radiation .
We have already noted that there is a possibility of explaining it as being due to deflection suffered by a small fraction of the primary Rontgen pulses ' encounters of a special type with the atoms of the radiator .
Of the nature of such collisions we have at present no information .
On the other hand , the similarity of the distribution curves to those.for a parallel beam of -rays ests that possibly the cathode particles which are given off in quantity when Bontgen rays fall upon a radiator may play some part in the production of what we have called the excess radiation .
From this point of view , the excessradiation would be due to the retransformation into rays of some fraction of this secondary cathodic radiation .
That some such transformation must take place seems certain .
Furthe.r examination of the hypothesis , however , shows that , in order to make it fit the curves , further assumptions must be made , for which there is at present little evidence .
Experiments in progress to test these points .
Pending their completion , it is , perhaps , not desirable to develop the suggestion further .
In conclnsion , I have pleasure in expressing to Prof. Sir J. J. Thotnson my thanks for his interest in these experiments .

