266 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
[ June 19 , XXVII .
" On a New Method of Studying Metallic Vapours .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1879 .
\#166 ; ; On May 29 I read a note before the Royal Society , stating that I had lately been engaged in studying the spectrum of sodium under new experimental conditions , and I pointed out that the vapour given off from the metal after slow distillation in a vacuum for some time shows the red and green lines without any trace whatever of the yellow one .
No detailed account of the method employed in the experiments was given , as the most convenient form of apparatus had not then been determined .
The novelty of the method consists in the use of the luminous electric current as an explorer and not as agent for the supply of the vapours under examination ; that is to say , the vapours are first produced by an external source of heat , and are then rendered luminous by the passage of the current .
The length and bore of the tube therefore control the phenomena to a certain extent .
A form of apparatus which I have found to answer very well is shown in the accompanying photograph .
1879 .
] On a New Method of Studying Metallic Vapours .
267 A is the tube or retort containing the metal experimented on at its lower extremity , and having a platinum wire sealed into it at a distance of about two inches from the lower end , the other end being drawn out and connected by a mercury joint to an ordinary Geissler tube , which is connected by another mercury joint to the Sprengel pump C. Another form of tube which I have used is prepared by inserting two platinum poles into a piece of combustion tubing sealed at one end , and after inserting the metal to be experimented on , drawing out the glass between the platinum to a capillary tube .
I have also tried inserting the platinum pole at the end of the retort so that the spark passes from the surface of the metal , but this arrangement did not answer at all .
Some other modifications have been tried , but the first form I have 268 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
[ June 19 , described is that which I have found to answer best , so far as the trials have yet gone .
D is the spectroscope .
E is the lens used for focussing the image of the Geissler tube on the slit .
E is the spirit lamp for heating the retort .
H is the battery .
K and L are the wires connected with the coil .
In the second photograph the method of observing the spectrum of the vapours close to the surface of the metal is indicated ; the same letters apply , D ' being however in this case a direct-vision spectroscope , which was sometimes employed for convenience .
For determining the exact positions of the lines in the spectrum of the vapour in any part of the retort , the larger spectroscope , with its illuminated scale , was used in the place of the direct-vision spectroscope .
The secondary wires of the coil were connected , one with the pole in the upper bulb at B , and the other with the platinum at A. B is an ordinary Geissler tube with two bulbs separated by a capillary tube .
The great advantage of this arrangement is that this capillary portion can be used for ascertaining what gases or vapours are carried over by the pump without any interference with the retort , both wires being connected with the Geissler tube .
If , for example , the sodium contains an impurity of hydrocarbon , the moment at which it begins or ceases to come off can be found by examining the spectrum of this capillary tube .
After a vacuum has been obtained the retort is heated gradually .
The pump almost immediately stops clicking , and in a short time becomes nearly full of hydrogen .
The spectrum of the capillary then shows the hydrogen lines intensely bright .
After some time the gas comes off far less freely , and an approach to a vacuum is again obtained .
Another phenomenon now begins to show itself : on passing the current a yellow glow is seen , which gradually fills the whole space between the pole in the retort and the metal ; its spectrum consists of hydrogen and the yellow line of sodium , the red and green Na line being both absent until the experiment has gone on for some time .
As the distillation goes on , the yellow glow increases in brilliancy , and extends to a greater distance above the pole , and the red and green Na lines presently make their appearance as very faint lines .
The upper boundary of the yellow is quite sharp , the lines and " structure " spectrum of hydrogen appearing above it .
After the yellow glow-giving vapour ( which does not attack the glass ) has been visible for some time , the pump is stopped and the metal heated more strongly .
On passing the current a little while afterwards , a very brilliant leaf-green vapour is seen underlying L879 .
] On a New Method of Studying Metallic Vapours .
2691 he yellow one , and connected with it by a sap-green vapour .
The tpectra then visible in the tube at the same time are\#151 ; Leaf-green ... .
Green and red lines of Na and C of hydrogen ; D absent .
Sap-green ... ..Green , red , and yellow Na lines of equal brilliancy and C of hydrogen .
Yellow ... ... ..D alone and C. Bluish-green. .
C and F and hydrogen structure .
To observe the green Na line alone it is necessary to point the direct-vision spectroscope just above the surface of the metal where the green is strongest .
It is also necessary to guard against internal reflections from the glass , as this may sometimes cause the D line to be seen by reflection from the surface .
The metallic sodium is apt to condense on the surface of the glass and around the platinum pole .
If this should happen the retort must be heated until the sodium has again volatilised .
The yellow line is always seen when the coating extends to the pole .
The following extracts from the laboratory note-book will help to make the method better understood :\#151 ; Experiment with .
Before heating Na , the following lines were visible in Geissler tube .
8-8 to 8*9=0 .
9'72 much brighter than other lines in hydrogen structure .
10*6 10*95=Hg green .
12*7 12*85=F .
13*85 15*3 to 15*4 =Hg violet .
Colour of spark along tube , pale lilac : its spectrum exhibited\#151 ; Hydrogen structure .
C. No hydrocarbon spectrum visible .
Time 11.25.\#151 ; Na gently heated with spirit-lamp four inches away .
Almost linear hydrogen spectrum in capillary structure gone or nearly so .
Hydrocarbon now strong below lower mercury joint .
Time 11.35.\#151 ; Sodium still angular .
Hydrocarbon scarcely visible in capillary .
Na again warmed .
11*7 ( hydrocarbon line ) increased in narrow tube below lower mercury joint , showing that hydrocarbon still comes oft .
Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
[ June 19 , 10 ' 15 ( mercury yellow ) bright .
Heating continued ; pump stopped clicking .
Time 11.37.\#151 ; Ha melted ; spark refuses to pass ; glass instantly \#166 ; covered with white deposit where the sodium boiled .
Spark now passes , showing stratification .
Spectrum of retort consisted of pure hydrogen without a trace of D | all traces of hydrocarbon also gone .
Hydrogen line G seen very bright .
Pump clicking .
Ha again heated , not boiled ; pump stopped clicking .
Yellow glow in retort showed D very broad , 0 without F. Time 11.50.\#151 ; Pump nearly clicking ; stratifications in retort ; spark bright red in capillary , pure hydrogen with blue line remarkably brilliant ; D visible two inches above pole in retort ; yellowish film forming at top of retort five inches from sodium ; retort otherwise .clean ; pump not clicking , much hydrogen being carried over .
Structure spectrum in retort getting much brighter ; discoloration at top removed by Bunsen , but forms a beautiful green film below ; .glass just above Ha clean ; trace of D three inches from pole .
Time 11.55.\#151 ; Still pure hydrogen in capillary .
Metal slowly distilling and film forming above it ; very bright yellow glow at pole in retort , gives no trace of the green line ; much hydrogen coming over .
Time 12.0.\#151 ; Pump now clicking ; only hydrogen visible in capillary ; yellow glow now seen over metal .
Glass cleared by Bunsen has been discoloured by platinum pole ; on heating deposit , D seen very bright , C scarcely visible , and very faint trace of green line ; D visible for three inches above pole , gradually passing away into hydrogen structure ; pump carrying over much hydrogen , which is brilliant in .capillary .
Pump beginning to click , metal more strongly heated ; clicking ^stopped ; new system of stratifications in retort , glowing with a blue light as far as mercury joint ; violet above mercury joint .
On further heating , the old conditions are restored .
In the retort , D now brighl .one inch above pole ; C very dim ; no green line .
Ha boiled ; spark refuses to pass ; spirit lamp raised one inch ; spark .again blue in tube ; its spectrum consists of hydrogen structure without F or C. Tube again cleared by Bunsen flame ; Ha boiling ; yellow glow blending with violet one inch from pole ; fine stratifications in higher part of retort ; pump carrying over much hydrogen .
1 Pump clicking ; Hg line at IPO visible ; violet Hg line very faint .
Tube again cleared by Bunsen flame ; yellow line two inches froifl pole ; green line very faint ; no trace of 0 ; pump carrying over hydrogen ; violet light now visible over metal .
Time 12.20.\#151 ; Tube again cleared with Bunsen ; olive-green now becoming apparent at pole ; green line well seen ; tube now keeps 1879.1 On a Neio Method of Studying Metallic Vapours .
quite clear , although position of Bunsen is unchanged ; pump nearly ; flicking ; hydrogen very bright in retort .
New spectrum visible in sapillary .
Pump clicking ' , glass becoming attacked ; blue film one inch above pole in retort ; glow extends back to metal ; line seen intermediate in position between D and Na green .
Red hydrogen very intense in capillary tube ; blue line brighter than ; ever ; fluffy line in green ( 11'4 ?
) .
Olive-green glow in retort ; vapour becoming greener ; green line as bright as D ; D now fainter than either the green or red Na lines ; the red line gradually fades on cooling ; only one line more refrangible than the green line .
The green vapour does not appear to attack the glass ; D now on point of disappearing ; green line far brighter .
The tube then cracked and put an end to the experiment .
This experiment , although not successful in so far as the isolation of the green Na line is concerned , is brought forward , as it shows the details of the observations as dictated by me to my assistant while the 1 experiment was going on .
The experiment has since been successfully repeated several times , simply with the object of getting the green line i alone .
This is best achieved by heating the metal before all the hydrogen has been extracted by the pump.* The method has been tried also with potassium , calcium , and some 1 other metals , and with metallic salts .
I do not , however , yet bring | forward the results I have obtained , as the experiments are beset with ) difficulties ; and I am now carrying out a research with the hope of eliminating all sources of error .
I may state , however , that with potassium and calcium I get the r same inversion of phenomena , the yellow-green lines of potassium ' being seen without the red ; while in the case of calcium the blue line ) alone was seen .
The fact that in these experiments we get , as before mentioned , j vapours which at one and the same time exhibit different colours and t different spectra at different levels in 4he tube , at once suggests the f phenomena of fractional distillation , and supports the following state-i inent which I made last March:\#151 ; I " Doublets and triplets , as a rule , reverse themselves more freely !
than the irregular lines in the same spectrum ; which particular c doublet or triplet will reverse depending upon the temperature , as if i the cooler vapour to which the reversal is due varied , as in the case of ; fractional distillation .
" It is obvious that if , at any particular temperature , one particular kind of vapour is given off in the manner indicated , in excess of all * In this extract from the laboratory note-book I have left out in most cases lists of lines , as I have not as yet been able to assign to all of them their wave-lengths .
272 Dr. F. W. Pavy .
On the Volumetric Estimation [ June 19 , others or alone , then we shall get an excess in the reversal of the lines special to that particular kind of vapour given off .
It is remarkable from this point of view that I have only succeeded in constantly reversing a triplet in the case of manganese , and that I have only succeeded in reversing a triplet of iron on one or two occasions only .
Comparing these results with those obtained in the case of Na , K , Ca , \amp ; c. , we have here an indication of a considerable physical difference between the metals of the alkalies , for instance , and those of the iron group .
It is also suggested as a result of the application of this new method of experimentation , that in the case of a considerable number of chemical substances not only the line spectrum is compound in its origin , as I suggested many years ago , but that a large number of the lines is due to molecular groupings of considerable complexity , which can be kept out of the reaction by careful low temperature distillation .
Whether these higher molecular groupings are merely larger physical aggregates or whether they be compounds in a stricter sense , hydrides for instance , it may take some time to determine ; but it is obvious that however this may be , the finer vapours may exist uncontaminated with the grosser ones in the incandescent atmosphere of a star ; and I know of no reason why the molecules of such fine vapours should not combine with each other , and if , for the sake of argument , we assume that some of the so-called chemical elements may be thus compounded of those finer vapours which we know to exist in the atmospheres of the hottest stars , then we may expect to find the high temperature spectra of these so-called elements to consist of a complication of lines , due partly to the complex molecules themselves and partly to the finer vapours in question .
XXVIII .
" Supplementary Note on the Volumetric Estimation of Sugar by an Ammoniated Cupric Test giving Reduction without Precipitation .
" By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1879 .
In a communication published in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " ( vol. xxviii , p. 260 ) , I drew attention to the employment of an ammoniated cupric liquid for the volumetric estimation of sugar .
Instead of giving an altogether new formula for this liquid , I recommended it to be prepared from Pehling 's solution with the addition of a certain volume of ammonia and of water .
Under the method of analytical procedure adopted in my laboratory , which consisted in running in the liquid pretty quickly from the burette to near the required point , and then dropping it in slowly , the amount of soda contained in Fehling 's solution proved sufficient to give accurate

