]\gt ; X. Thermed of ) stallised Nof A. TlTTTON , B. Sc. Commumicated by , F. fficeived nary 3 ) larv 1 , 1809 .
IN communication made to the Royal Society in April last ( ' Phil. vol. 191 , 313 ) the author descril ) an interference dilatometer , by the use of which , owing to introduction of for the expansion of interference apparatus by means of a disc of inium laid on the ject , the d method of is rendered equally senlsitive in the determination of the ] of solid substances , notably ystals , which cannot ) obtained iu blocks of the relatively large size hitherto required .
The method is particularly applicable in the cases of those subst nces , including the crystals of most artificial chemical lts other preparations , whose ground surfaces will not take a polish equal to of glass .
The authol was led to devise it in order to be able to extend his investiations , concerning the relations between the and physical properties of the crystals of isonlorphous series of salts on the one hand and .
chemical constitution on the other , to the thermal deformation of the salts in questio1l .
In previous communications to the Chemical Society the author has described the results of detailed observations of a nber of and physical properties of the crystals of the series of normal sulphates , metal potassium , rubidium , and caesium respectively ( ' Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' Trans. , 1894 , 628 ) ; of twenty-two double sulphates of the series ) , in is relJresented by the same three alkali metals Journ. Chem. Trans. 337 and 1896 , 344 ) ; and of the normal selenates of these 1netals ( ' Soc. , ' Trans. , ) .
The general result of these tions has to show that the whole of the d .
of the crystals of these salts exhibit ressive variations which follow the order of progression of the atomic weights of the three alkali metals Cs , so that the variations may be said to be functions of the atomic of the alkali metal , in the broad sense in which the term " " function\ldquo ; is applied in connection with atomic weight .
Of all the isomorphous series referred to , the normal sulphates alone to be 17 .
6.99 OF traction heat desired .
By the slow evaporation of cold saturated tions over oil of in vacuo it is possible , , length amount of , to excellent ] ) } rubidium ccesium , of the requisite size to furnisl ] blocks to I thick in the three axial ections .
But in the case .
the ) lubleI ) sium salt ) crystals are almost eover , when they are larger , they are either pseudo-hexagonal triplets or other twinned useless for pnrpose in view owing to the unequal nsio of the interpene- parts due to different axial expansion in with orthorhon symmetry ; or otherwise , they are individuals of an ated Patic nature , the elongation in the direction of the and the prisms ) too use along the other axial directions , p( of the axis ) .
Tt ) found difficult to induce rmed individual prisms , deposited a large quantity of a cooling saturated solution , to grow further to the transverse dimensions in cold saturated solutions over vitriol .
Afte ] a thickness of about 4 millims. it ahnost always happened that , rather than grow further , fresh crystals to be deposited .
After months of fruitless labour , Messrs. and WILLIAMS kindly undertook to attempt to obtain larger crystals by the use of very much larger quantities of solution , and eventually succeeded in seyell of exceptional thickness , and fter a little further growth in a cold saturated solution over vitriol vacuo , ) at length yielded transparent blocks to millims. thick along the direction of the axis and to millims. the axis .
The author desires to express is great indebtedto the firnl in for so kindly their resources at his dis enabling this inyestigation to be completed .
eparation of the crystal-blocks , each proyided truly ) truly tely 1 to the icular C ) ) ) ftxis the linear ) lsion .
contraction measured , out with of author 's new cutting meant in question is similar in principle ppearance to descril ) to the Society in Decelnl ) 1894 , ' Roy . .
Proc , and which is now the Collection in the South Museunl .
Il differs the latter instrument in including use has to ) for the sake ) rreate conyenience ease in manipulation .
The perfected , the ction , the most.tcly o truly ) .
CXC11 .
the centering moyements of the -adjnsting atus , and thus avoid of the .
ding , besides longel requiring the centering of the crystal to be is ) ) on slidel hich can be made to on the .
the instrument , by otation of long it ) in the ) lnanipulated 1inch handle .
The ( bed is ) the ) , th tion hich is ) out into a so to reduce ictio by only the .
edges to act as o ; uides for the slidel , and 4 centims. wide the base , there , thus abevel of 1 centim. side .
bed is fixed firmly to the ( the instrument ) four large .
At the outer eud is ) ) ending in the ) hollow cylinder of steel with the steel slidel .
The latter is , slightly than the bed , centinls .
broad .
It solid of steel 1]( underneath to the ) of the bed ; icknebb bed is 8 the sides , beyelled on their luillims .
In ordel ensure close but not inconv eniently tigbt titting of the slidel its bed , been left on one side the of thick of steel between the beyelled of the slidel and the bed , this is ched to the slidel ' by five SCl'ews whose heads on outside , and which serve as adjustin screws to egulate the fitting of bed slidel .
At the outer end the slider OtyS laterally its tion is deepened to the depth of the bevelled sides , so as to form a stout support the ssage of the thick steel cylinder which , beyond this , where it is to ) event its sing , is cut with deep corresponding to the hollow one in the bed .
tely outside this , the steel cylinder sses into the brass winch fitted with ) onite hndle .
As the othel end of the screw is unflanged , the lider c ) readily elnoved f re-attached , the bed ; 011 ) , the slideltlle ) it ] ides upeded f a dozen centims. , when the scre begins to t is eHected t the .
The is similar uently tixed to the base in the evious iulneJ ding ) table being ) ovided with efiicient 1oeans nent exactly ) ) to onion 1 axis , and ictio pulley with , of adjustment tigrhtening of the band .
lnel .
is necessarily eHected dently to method elnployed in the ) instrument , as it is no possible to the base for the tion of the spiral and ) method .
It is here cted by stout -plate , which is fixed to the slider six screws , of ) both late and slider , pass ] plate only screws ; after these are adjusted the table is fixed in ljusted 1 ) of the other three screws .
] adjustment of the fi.iction pulley is effected by carrying it bracket is the inner end ) ) ] ) headed uf .
I ON THE ] bracket .
Both this chment and the circular-plate-bearing attachment of the ulley c the outer end of the slider carl be slightly tilted if desired , , run ufliciently eccentrically avoid friction of the band two points each side the grinding ) ulley .
The slider carl.ies in the middle of the friction } ) end , small plate supporting , in which , together with two holes driven into the slider one near each side on the other side ) the grinding table , fit three supports for a circular guard the rindinrr table event projection of the lubricating liquid when .
The window the side neal.est the ) ulley , for the of its ) porting appal.atus as the ] idel .
is pushed into position ; ) window be closed shutter fter t ) assage of the crystal , netal ( to the guard itself being fitted round this pol.tio ( the .
this ) ) with the aid of a little handle along slot directed by ) pins .
heigbt of the surface of the lap , when the slider is in position , is exactly the that of the cutting disc when the cutting geal is in position , so variation of the height of the -carrying axis is .
The cutting is exactly as the formel instrument , rotatable about the back pillar , als when in position , in traversing by the front pillar .
The carrying the grindin apparatus is remoyed when the cutter is in position .
In addition to the laps provided with the previous instrument , two additional ones furnished .
One is a polishing lap for hard crystals , consisting of hard opticians ' melted into circular metal tray of the same size as the other laps , and aftercompressed so as to present a plane .
This lap , employed with ocbre or , enables the ) method of polishing glass surfaces to be closely followed in the polishing of hard crystal surfaces .
The second is a lap whose grinding sul.face is formed by a sheet of emery cloth stretched oyer , and cemented to , a metal base of the size and shape common to laps .
This } ) has been particularly useful for eHecting the preliminary grinding down of the relatively large crystals employed in the whose results are being communicated , leaving but little for the -glass } ) to do .
iety of eleyen llow provided , enables any or all of usual grinding polishing processes the optician and lapidary to be followed , besides those described by the author for the gl.inding and polishing of the crystals of artificial salts .
One of the laps is own in ) osition in the tion , and another to the left leaning inst the base of the in A further small but important addition to the accessories consists of three gripping ysti 1ders , which shown resting on the base .
One of them is a triply and widely split tube of a centimetre bore , narrowing at a centimetre from the orifice into cone which passes into a grooved stem silnilar to the stems of the ordinary holders used wax attachment of the crystal .
The wide splits continued down to the conical is ) with iHcrew t which milled collar , by the screwing of which down the cone the portions holder are COlnpl.essed together .
The padded inside cloth , within which , on , the collar , the crystal i , s .
This is suitable .
the gripping of ) other whid ] the size of their apertul.es , ) ) .
of the same size those of the other holders ooved to fit the l.ibbed socket at the base of the sting a ) ) in relatively ) ) added inside with be together so as the grip by means screw , passing loosely ) Ollg and ewing f through the othel .
One of takes .
thick the other takes ) to ?
centim. thick .
lf the is not sufficiently ipping by o1le of these tter holders , not evenly } ) the advantageous nse the ] grippel , it is packed in a block of held in the ; the be cut ( as to most inc veniently shaped in the position grinding .
When ) ] ) SCl.ewed together much possible so } the cork setting , the latter is found ) be igidly held ithout any danger cracking , ] cork lending itself to eve distribution of pressure .
These holders were devised in order to avoid the frequent cracking suffer when opticians ' wax is employed to cement them to the The tance of this point is obvious , when it is emarked that a cracked crystal is totally use ations of thSion by the encc method , crack sure to further the tion i the interference ) ands .
Another addition special crystal-Jjusting ) aratus .
shown resting the table to the in the illustration , tended for use in ) ctiv e index , in it is difficult mattel , by of uesceJ other ' tion of the nndet ) the ) inclined surfaces separate nlll ) with .
In order to } ) inclined one setting of the , it is obviously necessary to the crystal on side the optical ) lane which been adjusted to the plane , with the provided on the instrument , and which optical ) two equired surfaces to be adjusting ) vided f ) } ) oses is similar to the second on descl.ibed in the memoir on the first and ) , intended for use in grinding small artificial salt crystals Phil. ) , ) of larger size , corresl ) onding to the larger instrument .
It includes djusting nents 1ovided with divided silvel } divided circle ) them to desired OF , AND I. is , in the case of the upper adjusting movement by ] rotation of large segment about the upper fixed segment , the clamping screw being fixed , with indicator on the carrier at .
The screw is the ] ] unloosed and the slider , ether with the -er segments carried , moved round on one side , as the silver index on the carriel , which travels closely underneath the large divided arc .
If the are not conveniently ined by the hand of the carrier , the difference can be nicely made up by movement of the large segment about the ) meanl of its tangent screw .
If the original position of the upper nent 1 ) noted the silver scale it could readily be -attained after the yrinding of first surface .
When the latter has been achieved , the lower part of the apparatus is transferred to a position the other side of the centre , a total sliding underneath the large of , and } ground .
Another smaller but very useful addition is ] ) -chutch to keel ) up the balanced gun-lnetal axis , the ) for ying the pressure of ) crystal on the rinding lap , when the left ] one of the nnter o which it during inding .
In order to prevent this axis from the adjustment of , a hooked spring-clutch is arl.anged about the bearing of the level a nalllter that when it is pushed over into position , it is ined there by the force of a spring .
It consists of an arm rotatable about an axis verl the lower part one side of the and carrying a horizontal bar lter end which presses down on the outer arm of the oising lever when i ; a strong spring fixed to the base of the which has to be vercome the little arm , presses up ainst an angle of latter below the in such a nlanller as to keep the bar of the clutch , aftel } ) brought over ) osition , down the counter } ) oising 1 .
The is thus fixed with ] elbow esting on plate , and its other arm rying the knife edge is ) the collal of the axis , and it at its lower ) ) is unable tall out of position during lstulent .
The eluents are itions to the telescope of due to the of the author 's friend ofessor H. A. of all const by the same , Messrs. , and which ] the study of the faces of Cl.ystals while in the itct of } in mother liquor .
As the autbor 's cutting and inding goniometer excellent inverted oniometer , it was considered advi ; to adopt these itions .
A rectangular cell with truly plane glass sides is also included to contain ) aturated solution enlployed in such in vestigations .
The first of the two consists of a combined and mieicce , which provides two fixed spider-lines , one vertical and adjusted exactly rallel to the vertical axis the lneter : the other NORMAL SULPHATES OF , RUBIDIUIsI , AND to trace an image ; it is of such focal length that when it is close up the ] ) it permits the image of the signal to be seen almost as well as it is bsent , while as it is drawn more and more in front of and away the eyepiece it uses the image to pass gradually into that of the particular reflectingr face of the crystal itself The latter is clearly focussed when the sliding has been to the full extent of its path , and the face affording the signal .
is seen illuminated , as well possibly as other faces , from which it is distinguisl ] by the tracing process just indicated .
The rest of the arrangements of the instrument are precisely as described in the former memoir ( loc. cit Procedure in Cutting and Grinding the Crystal-blocks .
In selecting crystals from which to prepare a parallel-faced block , those Vere naturally chosen which were free from traces of tul.bidity and cracks distortions .
Crystals of caesium sulphate are readily obtained fectly f turbidity ; in the case of rubidium sulphate only very rowth in yields crystals satisfactory in this respect .
The exceptional of the potassium salt , eventually obtained after so much trouble , as has been referred to , were also satisfactory from this point of view .
After removal from the mothel ' liquor , the crystals were carefully , and then immediately stored in a desiccator for several days at least before use .
With two exceptions each selected crystal was only employed duplicate determinations , 011 two successive days , of the linear thermal expansion or contraction along some one particular axial direction .
In all , 29 different crystals were employed , 11 of potassium sulphate , 8 of rubidium sulphate , and 10 of caesium sulphate .
two exceptions were crystals of the rubidium and caesium salts , the a particularly fine specimen elongated along one axial direction , and which , ) cut in two halves transversely to this direction yielded portions so that -hey were separately employed for determinations in two different axial directions ; crystal of caesium sulphate was cut and ground into a rectangular block determinations in all three axial directions , so as to afford an stnnce o linear values , and from these the value for the cubic expansion , ived fi one and the same crystal , for comparison of the cubic deformation thus ) itll that derived by calculation from measurements of the three linear ) tractions exhibited by different crystals .
The results were so 1leally identical the comparison therefore so satisfactory , that there will be no to efel .
to this point .
The orientation of the various faces , and the consequential tiol ) axial directions of the crystals , was usually an easy matter , as the with the salts in question owing to the exhaustive morphological and ) study VOL. CXCII.\mdash ; A. 3 UTTON ON THERMAL IATION OF THE CRY TALLISEI ) made .
The identification of the axial directions is such a vital matter , as ntly evident when the results are discussed , that it should be stated the whole of the work , in common with all the author 's previous crystalloinvestigations , ] been carried out exclusively by the author personally .
In every , the axial directions were actually verified both by goniometrical enlents and by ation of the interference figures in convergent polarised Innnel.sion in cell ) benzene , on the inverted goniometrical polariscope , latter verification , as refractive index of that liquid is not the of the indices of the three salts , and the interference consequently optic axial angle is very nearly the cannot used , enetrate into any minute cavities in the S ooze out the thelmal observations in drops too small to which are to entirely derange the interence b lifting the ) by amount which is very appreciable in tions of such delicacy .
the oil be used in grindin the surfaces , and recourse was made to bellzene , which by its latility rapidly removes itself from cavities .
It is void ble that greater quantities require to be used than of oil , as it idly dries .
Hence a dropping funnel was arranged aboye the cutting or indin disc , sufficitly fast to continually provide adequate lubrication .
crystal verificationl of the axial direction along which it was desired to deterlnine the tion , was mounted in the grip-holder , in the manner already descl.ibed , lvith the axial direction in question approximately vertical , parallel hc and ) the cutting disc and grinding table .
The then into absolute adjustment , by goniometrical djustlllent of the natul.al zone of faces parallel to the axis in tion . .
the crystal wel.eso.terminated below that much grinding would be necessary to the required surface , the cutter was first brought into requisition the lowel end cut off , at such a distance as to afford a surface of the required extent with the least sacrifice of thickness in the axial direction adjusted .
The cutting of these Cl.ystals of artificial .
salts , although they are so much more friable than ystals , is nevel.theless most successfully performed by the new instrulnent .
No crystal has yet been broken in the process .
If no cutting were required the inding of the surface was carried out on the emery-cloth lap , at first with the crystal-holder and lap detached from the instrument and the former held in the , itnd then , after a rough approximation to the desired surface had been attained , yitb the and its holder the lap in position .
Finally , after verification of the adjustment , which , owing to the mode of fitting of the holder on to the suspended , was usually unimpaired , the sul.face was finely ground with one ground-glass laps .
AH the of using the aluminium coInpensator above the crystal was always NORMAL SULPHATES OF IUhf , , AND adopted in arrangin the interference apparatus of the , the ) of the methods described in the memoir the tter avhicll is illustrated special figure in the German translation of that ibuted to Krystallographie ' , there was no necessity to ) the the crystal-blocks .
For a crystal surface is not ( to act as ) sul.face involved in the of the interference , the ) of the compensator performing that function .
It was therefore ) the block by a similar parallel surface in the ] the first one by as much thickness of crystal as the particular speci ) of .
The crystal-block was then cleaned from dust by ' in benzene , with a clean linen cloth free from fluff , stored nntil the observations .
The thickness of the blocks ) be seen from the recol.d of the accurate ] from 1 to ) former limit being in the case of the only crystal under 5 ) ) .
in ckness .
reat majority were from 7 to 9 millims. thick .
In two or three lthough only had been used in treatment of the crystals , the of expansion vitiated by the .
of minute of liquid , which proved to be Inothel.-liquol .
, the of the ) iridiunl tripod table and the crystal , or between the lattel and the For in most the three point method of contact was impossible , ) to the prepared crystal surfaces being rower in one direction than in tlJeotlleJ , narrow to take the third point but not too rrow for ilil .
of both crystal and compensator .
A COlnpal.isoll of the esults for the direction by the two methods shows , however , no appreciable rence , the surfaces having always been absolutely clean and free from dust .
Moreover , the surfaces by the author 's cutting and grinding goniometer are so bsolutely plane , , due to slight convexity of surface , has ever been obsel.ved with , the placing of the crystal and compensator in position on the table ) the tripod always effected by sliding , to minimise any compressed .
fihn .
In cases of oozing of mother-liquor referred to , the were subsequently slowly to in an air-bath , and maintained at this teml ) ature f twelve ] ) On repeating observations of no bance o determinations being obtained , and the results obtained for the same direction of the same salt in this ) been unnecessary .
TIONS OF Mode of ConductinCJ the The determinations of thermal expansion or contraction ( in the ) which is very briefly outlined for crystals at the close of the 4 [ TTTON ON THERMAL DEFORMATION OF THE CRYSTALLISED lower part , after the description and comof the results of the determinations of the expansion of the platinum .
the interference tripod and of the aluminium of the compensators .
Gtnployed have not been quite so high as in the cases of those nces , the highest limit being in the neighbourhood of , in order that there be no appreciabls deformation due to internal strain , provoked by ttenJpted vporisat io of the water of mother-liquor contained in the inevitable minute cavities .
It is impossible to altogether prevent the formation of such ties , by slow evaporation vacuo , but the remarkable agreement of the results obtained indicates that any variable deformation due to this cause has been has been made to render the conditions of the determinations as gidly analogous possible , so that comparisons of the results can be made with confidence .
As as possible the same aluminium compensator has been used , namely , one millims. thick and a centimetre diameter , and unvided with points the three-point method of contact was so rarely available ; exceptions been made , results with the compensator mentioned are available .
the direction of the same salt , and the two series of results agree so that the has evidently not introduced any error .
This , of course , should the compensators , including the one 12 millims. thick used for the deterof the expansion of the metal , were all cut from the same casting of pure .
In most of the exceptional cases the other compensators were provided points , the three-point method was used , and afforded the results which already been stated to accord with those where points were not used .
The pensator gives excellent interference bands , particularly from one of the two surfaces , which was marked and invariably used .
The hands afforded by it were slightly curved , due to infinitesimal convexity , an additional adyantage as it was possible , by noting whether they moved outwards from or inwards towards the centre of curvature , to at once ascertain whether the movement of the bands due to expansion or to contraction .
There is a further advantage in employing compen sator above rather than below the crystal , namely , that the polished surface of aluminium reflects light almost equally with the other surface involved in oduction of the bands , the lower surface of the large cover-glass which is laid on platinum-iridium tripod screws and which bears about its centre the miniature ring whose centre is the point of reference for the micrometric measurement the position of the bands .
The air-film between the two reflecting surfaces was in nearly all cases very thin ; it not fonnd advisable to strive so much for exact compensation for the expansion of the 1screws as to produce the most brilliant bands .
For the correction for nonis of course in all cases accurately determined from the known expansion and ninium .
The corresponding to millims. NORMAL SULPHATES OF POTASSIUM , RUBIDIUM , AND CBSIUM .
of aluminium is about millims. which leaves room for a crystal millims. thick and an air film of millim. As the only usually or 2 millims. each side of the tbickness mentioned , the amount of under over collpensation was never very The same thermometers have been were fully described in the previous .
Their fixed points were carefully redetermined after the of the determinations .
The inner bent thel.molneter whose bulb was in contact with the tripod and whose indications were those accepted , was found to have ltered only to the extent of , the indications at and 10 in ice and steam , after applying the pressure correction for the latter , bein and respectively .
Hence the interval had remained unchanged , and as only differences of the temperatures are employed in calculating the coefficients of expansion , no correction of these latter is required for change of interval .
The usual modus operandi was to expend the greater part of three days in carrying out a duplicate pair of determinations , of the linear thermal deformation of ally one crystal along the direction perpendicular to the two prepared parallel surfaces .
The afternoon of the first day was employed in adjusting the crystal and the whole apparatus so as to afford a suitable field of interference bands .
Each of the two succeeding days was utilised for the carrying out of a complete series of observations of the position and transit of bands for two intervals of temperature , the operations on each day occupying 5 to 7 hours , during the whole of which time the author followed the bands without intermission .
Naturally , the carrying out of sixty-four such observations has proved very trying and fatiguing , the observer being continually afraid of such highly delicate measurements being vitiated by earth tremors due to street traffic or other disturbance , in spite of the rigid mounting of the apparatus on a table .
Fortunately , this fear has not proved to have had much foundation , as the author 's laboratory is happily situated in an exceptionally quiet part of Oxford well removed from the city and the railway .
But the experience has shown that the observations would have been far more difficult , if not impossible , in a large city with a network of underground railways such as London .
Although this source of disturbance has been minimised , several observations have been lost , enerall after spending hours upon them , by the cracking of the crystal under the influence of the rise of temperature , slow as it always was in order to avoid this ophe .
The further experience gained during this work indicates that in the case of crystals the Abbe method , of calculating the number of bands which pass the point of reference between two temperatures from initial and final obseryations of the positions of the bands nearest the reference point , for two , is generally inapplicable .
The only guarantee that the observation has been a one , that no disturbance due to any of the causes already referred to has occurred , is obtained by carefully following the bands for the whole of the temperature-interval , and observing that they maintain their regular distances and exbibit ppreciable OF POTASSIUIsI , RUBIDIUM , ) ESIUM .
thermometer to it and gently drawing the latter aside , was removed from the and transferred to the thickness measurer .
The greatest care was taken not to disturb the positions of the crystal and compensator on the table of the tripod .
large cover-glass ( cover-wedge of the p too to be through one of the windows of the ) ] with the tripod , so was left inside , being raised with the left hand while tripod was emoved with the right to nearest resting place , the top of the .-bath ; the -wedge then turned ov er so as not to injure the silver eference rin and laid on the floor of the chamber .
The tripod was then removed with both hands to such a position on the glass of the thickness that the agate pointed end the measul.ing bar would fall exactly on the centre of the compensator , over which the silver eference ring of the wedge had been during the observations .
The height of the plane of the tops of the tripod SCl.ews at this was then first determined by ying .
on the screws a large circular disc of glass similar to the covel-wedge , and were truly plane the thickness of which had previously been epeatedly d mined at a position the centre which was conveniently indicated by a small internal bubble .
The disc was laid so that the bubble was over the centre of the compensatol .
The measul.ement was then made by lowering the countel .
} ) oised b into gentle contact with the of the disc and eating the scale with the aid of the micrometer .
This height , the known of the disc , gave the height of the plane of the tops of the screws .
The disc was then emoved and the down upon the compensator , and the height again noted .
The rence between this and the height of the screws gave the thickness of the air film .
The was again raised and the ' next removed , without bing the crystal , ; matter requiring some nicety of manipulation with a pair of small ceps ; the then allowed to fall gently on the crystal , when another measurement taken .
The difference of this and the last was of course the thickness of the compensator , as nearly as possible .
It then only ined to once more raise the bar , remove the c1ystal , allow the bar to fall on to the of the tripod , and take a final measurement of the height of this .
The diHel.ence between this reading and the previous one afforded the measure of the ickness of the crystal .
In cases where the three-point method was employed the only difference was to determine the mean height of the three particular table points used , the aid of a small disc of glass , of known thickness at the centre , and placed on the same points , instead of determining the height of the of the table itself The length of the screws was evidently afforded by cting from the height of the screws the height either of the table itself 0 of the points , ding to the method of supporting the crystal employed .
The foul desired basal quantities , the thickness of the Cl.ystal , thickness of the the length of the screws , and the thickness of the air-film , were thus determined exactly along the vertical line passing through the centre of 472 MR. A. E. TUTTON ON THE THERMAL DEFORMATION OF THE CltYSTALLISED reference of the ence band observations , and so any error due to minute lack of parallelism of the surfaces involved was obviated .
An nple taken at random from the actual measurements will render the process quite clear .
It refel .
S to the fourth crystal of caesium sulphate along the direction.of the morphological axis The of the Problem with reference to the Symmetry .
The symmetry of the three salts under investigation being orthorhombic , the three axes of the thermal ellipsoid coincide in direction in each case with the crystallographical axes , just as do the axes of the optical ellipsoid already fully elucidated in a previous memoir .
The amounts of thermal deformation along these three axial directions should not , from general considerations , be equal , as in crystals belonging to the cubic system , nor even would any two of them be likely to exhibit the same amount of expansion , as in the case of crystals exhibiting tetragonal or hexagonal symmetry .
Orthorhombic symmetry requires that if a sphere of the substance of any one of these crystallised salts could be procured at any specific temperature , at any other temperature such sphere would have become converted into an ellipsoid with three unequal axes , and that these axes would coincide in direction with the three rectangular crystallographical axes .
One of these morphological axes would thus be the direction of maximum expansion or contraction , another that of minimum and the remaining one that of intermediate deformation .
The problem of the determination of the nature and amount of this thermal deformation consequently resolves itself into the determination of the amount of linear thermal expansion or contraction along the respective directions of the three morphological axes .
From these fundamental data can be calculated the cubical expansion , in other words , the difference in volume between the sphere of unit radius and the deformation ellipsoid produced therefrom as the effect of change of temperature .
The and Computations .
The work has thus consisted in the determination of nine quantities , namely , the linear coefficients of thermal expansion or contraction along each of the three crystallographical axes of each of the three salts .
It may be at once stated that in no case has contraction been observed , expansion in every direction having been found to be the invariable rule with regard to all three sulphate Every one of the nine NORMAL SULPHATES OF POTASSIUM , RUBIDIUM , AND CRSIUM .
quantities has been determined at least six independent times on three diiierent crystals , and with respect to five of the quantities eight determinations have been made on four separate crystals .
In all sixty-four independent determinations have been carried out , on different days , and using the twenty-nine different Cl.ystals of which the details have ah.eady been given ( p. 465 ) .
Each determination afforded , as already fully explained in connection with the determinations of the expansion of platinum-iridium and aluminium in the meter memoir ( loc. cit. p. 352 ) , the two constants required for a complete statement .
of the thermal behaviour , namely , the constant , the coefficient of expansion and , half the increment of the coefficient per degree of temperature , the coefficient not being a fixed quantity for all temperatures but varying regularly the temperature .
The coefficient of thermal expansion is signified by , and the sion for the actual coefficient at any temperature , as also for the mean coeflicient between any two temperatures whose mean is , is : The mean coefficient of expansion between and is , however The data by observations of the positions of the interference three adequately separated tempel.atures , and of the number of bands passing the reference point the intervals between these temperatures , together with knowledge of the original thicknesses of the block of crystal and of the aluminiultl compensator , and the length of the idium screws projecting above the tripod table or its raised points , are ample to enable the two constants to be calculated .
For it is only necessary to insert respectively in equations of the form the kuowll values of the three temperatures and the lengths of the crystal block at those temperatures , and to solve the three equations thus provided , for the three unknown quantities , and The solution of these equations furnishes expressions for the three required quantities of the forms , and in which and are terms involving the rences of the lengths , , at the three temperatures and , and the sums and diHel'ences of those ) eratures .
The actual expressions for and ( employed throughout the ) were : VOL. CXCII .
NORMAL SULPHATES OF POTASSIUM , RUBIDIUIsI , AND For the screws : for the first and similarly for the second interval , substituting for the compensator : for the interval , and a like expression for the second interval substituted In each case the actual expansion of the metal is thus calculated by multiplying the length ( thickness ) of the metal by the mean coefficient .
the linear between the two telnperatures , that is by for that lnetal }here t is the ]lea of the limiting temperatures of the interval , namely 42 or ; and by the amount of the temperature interval , that is , .
Actually , of course , one uses instead of .
The differences between the amounts of expansion of the screws and the compensator are given in the next two columns headed " " correction ] for non-compensation.\ldquo ; The correction is obviously positive , given expanding crystal , when the scre ) expand most , and negative when the compensator expands to the greater extel For in the former case the effect is to increase the thickness of the air-film , and consequently the amount of diminution of the thickness of the air-film due to the expansion of crystal is not fully evident , the actually observed amount being less than that effected by the expanding crystal by the amount of this excess of expansion 0 the part of the screws .
This latter amount should , therefore , be added .
The inverse is the case whenl the excess is the part of the compensator ; as it does , additional diminution of the thickness of the air-fihn , it should be subtracted .
The values iven in the last two columns , representing the actual expansions of the crystal during the two intervals of temperature , and , were obtained by applying the correction for non-compensation , in the sense just indicated , to the apparent expan sions and In the last portion of the table are given the calculated values of of the two required constants of the coefficient of linear expansion , , the coefficient at and , half the increment of the coefficient per degree of temperature .
In the last column are given the values of the coefficient of linear expansion , calculated by means of the formula .
FIZEAU invariably ) the coefficient at , a specific temperature in the neighbourhood of the mean the extreme limits employed by him , in addition to and .
As is nearer the ) of the author 's temperatures , this specific temperature has been chosen in preference , for which to record a particular calculated value of THE RESULTS .
In the following tables are presented results of the determinatio.ns and calcnlations .
NORMAL SULPHATES OF POTASSIUIsI , , AND CffiSIUIsI .
SUMMARY 0F THE RESULTS F0R LINEAR COrFFICIENTS or EXPANSION .
the mean ) values given at the foot of each of the .
tables , the following is statement of the essential results of ] work the linear coefficients .
MEAN Coefiicients of , between In abbreviated notation will next be given a list of true coeflicients .
The suffix attached to indicates the axial direction .
TRUE Coefficients of Linear nsion at , or Coeflicients between any Two Temperatures whose Mean is SULPHATES OF POTASSIUM , ) , ANY ) expression for the product of the expansions in the three rectangular axial which gives the expansion of the solid , is examined , it is found to consist of a llultlber of terms of which the only ones that Hect the fourth and last place of significant figures in the coefficient of expansion for any tempel.atureal.e the sums of the and respectively .
In the is presented summary of the constants of the cubical coefficients of expansion , of the cubical coefficients for , in a forl1l dily admits of a comparison of the values for the three salts .
COEFFICIENTS of the Cubical Expansion of the three Sulphates .
The mean coefficients of the expansion between are therefore as : For sulphate , or .
, , sulphate , or 1 ) .
, , caesium sulphate Ot , .
The actual coefficients of cubical expansion , , at any te1llperatule , and also the mean coefficients of cubical expallsion between any two teInperatul.eswhose mean is are the following , in which : For potassium 000139 , or .
, , rubidium sulphate 000153 , or .
, , caesium 000162 Ot , or 1 .
DISCUSSION OF THE RESULTS , AND CONCLUSIONS THEREFROM Cubical The most striking result of the investigation is all inspection the comparative table of the coefficients of expansion .
It be stated the following words : fficients of cnbicol expansion of of pot { ON THI IATION OF THE CRYSTALLISED ubidinm , and rxisium exhibit progression , corresponding to the progression of the three metals .
This is true of both the constants and / in the general for , coefficient of cubical expansion , the values of each constant for the rubidium salt being between the corresponding values for potassium and coesiurn salts .
It may be further stated that : The between the values of the constant , which represents the coefficient of for , for the three salts , are , amounting to only and a half per .
; this is an amount , however , which is five times as great as thw possible error the Also that : order of of the ) constants of the cubical coefficient of , the at , diminishes with of the contained in the salt , while the increment of tloe coe.fficient per degree , This latter firct leads to an interesting result , namely , that the coefficients , in sing with of tenllJerature , approach each other in value , until for three between 11 and 17 they become identical in pairs ; moreovel , in the neighbourhood of the second of these tennperatures the three values oximate so closely to thel .
that their difference comes within the limits of experimental .
For tenlperatures highel than those of coincidence , the values diverge and an of .
This will be rendered clear by a table showing the true coefficients of cubical expansion , , for intervals of up to , and for the three temperatures of coincidence .
These latter are for the identity of cubical expansion of potassium and rubidium sulphates , for potassium and caesium sulphates , and ] for the coincidence of expansion of the rubidium and caesium salts .
COEFFIC , of Cubical xpansion fious Temperatures from to The point may be graphically delnonstrated by plotting out the values on curve , taking atures and coefficients of cubical expansion as ordinates .
The three lines thus obtained , shown in the reproduction given , will be observed to converge from towards the three temperatures of coincidence , where crossing of the lines in pairs occurs , beyond which they diverge .
The relative of lines to each other middle of the part where crossing occurs , NORMAL SULPHATES OF POTASSIUM , PcUBIDIUIsI , iESIUM .
of expansion is found to be prevented by the slight directional perturbations due to the rent natures of the molecules of the three salts .
The eplacement of the atoms of one metal by those of another of higher atomic weight is possibly , and even probably , accompanied by movement of the relative positions of the constituents of the molecules of their spheres of motion , as well as by the purely chemical change ; not only is the substitution accompanied by an incl.ease of mass , but also by increase in the electro-positive energy of the metallic atoms , which may very ably be expected to result in a closer approximation to the negative atoms , probably of oxygen , to which they are attracted .
There are , however , several interesting facts exhibited by the linear coefficients , which connect their relations very intimately with those of the optical constants , for which a true progression in the order of atomic weight has been clearly demonstrated .
Before passing to the consideration of these indications of parallelism between the thermal and optical behaviour of the crystals of the three salts , attention must be drawn to the two following salient facts which are apparent from an inspection of the linear coefficients .
It is that : The amount of expansion along the direction of the ( lxis is practically identical for all three , indicating that the interchange of the three metals is cvithout influence on the thermal behaviour the axis of the crystals .
) , the of all three this direction , which is therefore that of the of the ellipsoid .
These two facts are doubtless of significance with respect to the structure of the molecule , apparently indicating absence of the metallic atoms or their spheres of motion from the immediate proximity of the axis .
The significance becomes enhanced in view of the fact that the author has shown ( ' Journ. Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1896 , p. 507 ) that the whole of the work on the sulphates and double sulphates points to the conclusion that the structural unit of the crystals of the simple sulphates is the simple chemical molecule , a conclusion which is supported by the work of FOCK ( referred to .
cit. ) on the solubility of mixed crystals .
The relations between the amounts of expansion along the directions of the other two crystallographical axes , and , are much complicated , and are evidently influenced by the eplacement of one metal by another .
Considering the coefficients of expansion for , the amount of expansion along the direction of the axis is the greater in the case of both the potassium and caesium salts ; and for all three salts the increment is , as already indicated , greater for this than for any other direction .
But in the case of the rubidium salt a remarkable excess of expansion is observed to occur along the direction of the axis , which is the maximum thel.mal axis at , at the expense of that along the axis , which becomes reduced to the intermediate thermal axis .
The increments per degree , however , for these two ections in the rubidiurn salt , remain of the same order as .
the other two salts .
Now it is an interesting fact , and doubtless not without significance , that the directions of maximum thermal effect coincide with those of the first median line of the optic axial angles of all three 492 .
A. .
TUTTON ON THERIsIAL IATION OF THE CRySTALLISED salts , which is the axis in both the potassium and caesium salts and the axis in the idium salt .
In order to follow the parallelism further , it will be necessary to the linear coefficients of expansion for higher nperatures , the values for and for the purpose .
In the following table are given the values of for and The directions are also indicated .
of the of the optical indicatrix , namely , the first median line , the second median line , and the axis of the optical ellipsoid .
The of the double refraction of the crystals is also given , as this determines whether the first median line is maximum or the minimum axis of the optical indicatrix , the former being the case for positive double refraction and the latter for negative .
RISON of Expansions at Different Temperatures with the Optical Indicatrix .
It will be apparent from the table that the relations of the linear expansions at still hold good , as the temperature is raised , in the cases of the potassium and caesium salts .
A similar observation has been shown to be valid with respect to the optical erties .
But in the case of the rubidium salt a remarkable change occurs .
Owing to the greater increment of the expansion along the direction of the axis , the preponderance of the expansion along the axis diminishes , until at the amounts of expansion along these two axial directions become equal .
That is to say , in the hbourhood of the crystals of rubidium sulphate simulate uniaxial symmetry ards their thermal behaviour .
This is.rendered the more interesting by the fact that this temperature the crystals of this lt also exhibit uniaxial optical ties .
tremely feeble doubltiozr , as show .
cit. , the ] the of th fractive owe the NORIsIAL SULPHATES OF , PUBIDIUM , AND CffiSIUM .
axial directions , brought about by rise of ) ) to a rule common to all three , result in two of the ctive indices to equality about the temperature indicated , the optic axial diminishes until about the same tenlpel'atul.e the rings and ectangulal .
cross of uniaxial crystal exhibited in convergent polarised light .
The mperatures at hich the interference is produced slightly according to the wave-Iengtb of the light , to there bein a large amount of dispersion of the optic axes .
They are respectively for red lithium light , for red C. sodium light , for thallium light and for eenish blue F. hydrogen light ; the average is thus exactly , the temperature at which the crystals of rubidium sulphate are thermally uniaxial .
But the two ellipsoids of revolution for the two properties are not similarly orientated , the principal axis for the optical property being the axis , while for the thermal property it is the axis This close parallelism betweell the thermal and optical properties is of considerable importance , inasmuch as the optical constants were shown to exhibit a cleal gression corl.esponding to the ) ression of the atomic weights of the three metals , the diffel.ences between the optical constants the salts being eater relatively to their variations in the axial directions of any one salt , than in the case of the rmal properties .
On following the growth of the coefficients of linear expansion ' to , it is observed that the continued gain 011 the part of the value has now rendered the expansion along this clearly the maximum , thus reversing the order of the axial expansions which had obtailled below The maximum axis of the thermal ellipsoid for , and temperatures superior to this , is thus the crystallographical axis for all three sulphates ; the axis is the minimum thermal axis , and the axis the axis of intermediate thermal expallsion for ffi three salts .
To complete the parallelism of the thermal and optical properties , it may be ilelltiolled that at tempel.atures superior to the neighbourhood of , where the uniaxial optical interference figure is produced , the figure breaks up into a biaxial ( he , but with the optic axes separated in the plane perpendicular to that which formerly contained them , and the optic axes separate and more in this llew until about the axis becomes the median instead of the axis .
At this temperature , therefore , the axis is the first median line for all three salts .
It has been shown that at temperatures superior to the is also the direction of maximum thermal expansion .
Hence , at higher temperatures the rule observed for the lower ones , that the direction of maximum thermal expansion is that of the optical first median line , is equally valid .
The foregoing considerations , the relations of the linear coeflicients of expansion , may be summarised as follows:\mdash ; The of th diffcrcnce in thoe coefficient of cdong particular dire introduced one another , with th larger differences of expansion exhibited in the three ( rections of one cllt , together with the fact the of metal is by modifications of these relative expansions for two ofdirections , and , prevent the coefficients of expansion for any one cction of the three exhibiting any progression corresponding to that of the atomic weights of the three .
These directional perturbations are , , mutually , the of expansion in one of the two directions to being more or less by the in the other ; consequently the effect tcrchange of the metals is clearly exhibited by the solid th cubical expansion , the coefficients increments of which been shown to exhibit a well-defined progression following the order of the atomic weights of the three metals .
Before oroceeding to summarise the interesting analogy between the thermal and the optical properties , it may be of advantage to consider what the dimensions of the linear change , on ) lacing one metal by another , would probably be , provided no directional perturbations occurred .
The difference between the cubical of expansion of potassium and rubidium sulphates is , and of the rubidium and caesium salts .
The mean is , and the linear differences might be reasonably expected to be about one-third of this , namely .
Even if the linear expansions along the axis are accepted as free from batio and unaffected by change of metal , the linear differences for the other two directions could not exceed .
Now the directional perturbation in which the idium salt exhibits a reversal of the relative directions of the maximum and intermediate thermal axis compared with the potassium salt , amounts to more than twice this amount , namely .
Hence it is clearly apparent that a change , of the maximum possible amount , would be completely masked by the directional perturbation .
A brief summary of the nature of the bation and its relation to the optical changes may next be given .
The chic directional perturbation consists of , for below , of the directions of the intermediate of the ellipsoid in the salt , compared with their directions in the potassium and coesium .
The maximum axis is the for the two latter salts , but the axis for the rubidium salt .
A similar ?
eversal of the of the first median line , the of the optical ellipsoid ( the indicatrix ) , from the direction to the direction , occurs for similar temperatures , in the case of the rubidium .
Hence , the maximum thermal is identical in all three with the first median line .
At higher the same relations still hold for the and coesinm salts , both there nally and optically .
But owing to the increment of expansion along the axis being so much greater for other directions , the interalong axis of rnbidium is rapidly brought up to NORMAL OF , RUBIDIUM , AND ESIUhI .
, with the expansion along the axis beyond this ) becomes the thermal for the rubidium salt , as it is other ) .
Hence , at the of rubidium are rently thermally .
At temperatures each side of for vent of light , they are tically u. The ellipsoids of ) not identica lientated , the of the being the phiced axis , and of the latter .
Further , of direction of the maximurn axis of rubidium sulphate , from to , is by the ge of the first median line from to first optical line corresponds , as at lower , to the thermal , for three sulphates .
This llelis between the linear msions and the optical const of as the latter constants , which , ?
the ones , exhibit differences ) the three salts of much greater ?
} gnitude the directional differences for any one salt , show clear progression , in the order of the atomic weights of the metals contained in the three ) It will be interesting in conclusion , to compare the results for the thermal deformation thus obtained by the refined interference method , with those previously obtained from the much cruder method of combining determinations of specific gravity at the ordinary and higher temperatures with measurements of the morphological angles at those temperatures .
Such an attempt to determine the coefficients of expansion was described in the previous memoir on the ( ' Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' 1894 , p. 653 ) .
It naturally depended for success on the possibility of employing liquid in the pyknometer which was absolutely without action on the salts , as well as upon the degree of accuracy with which such determinations and angular ) ments , the latter involving total deviations of less than two minutes of , can be carried out , even with the aid of the extremely delicate instruments ) loyed .
The actual values found for the total cubical expansion for yeen 2 were :\mdash ; For potassium sulphate rubidium : , caesium , . . .
Thus a diminution of expansion was found to occur as the atomic weight of the metal increased , a result which is fully borne out by the more accurate determinations now presented .
The figures for the three salts were so near , however , that they taken as identical , having reference to the method by which they were obtained , for the purpose of calculating the coefficients of linear sion with the aid of the angular deviations for the same temperatures .
For the coefficie1lts of expansion for the following numbers were given:\mdash ; .
TUTTON ON FORMATION OF THE CRYSTALLISED therefore concluded that " " the crystals of the three salts , on heating , expand in the direction of the vertical axis least along the macrodiagonal axis We ] seen that this is indeed the case , except for temperatures below in the of of rubidium salt , the method could not possibly have indicated , as at , the temperature of the higher density determinations , the rule found is really The actual values now published for the total expansion of potassium sulphate , taking this salt as an example , for between and , calculated by the formula as follows : The difference between these highly accurate values and the approximate ones obtained by the ougher method is not great considering the nature of the latter , and the order is the same .
An attempt to determine the expansion of crystals of potassium and rubidium sulphates , by means of the -thermometer method , has been described by SPRING ( ' Bull .
de l'Acad .
de Belgique , ' 1882 , 197 , and 'Ber .
Deut .
Chem. Ges 15 , 1940 ) .
Olive oil was employed as the liquid , and ) density determinations were carried up to The value obtained for the cubicftl expansion of potassium sulphate for was , and for rubidium sulphate .
The latter value is extraordinarily near the truth accol.ding to the results now presented , the value for to being actually .
But the impossibility of usting this lmethod , equally with all the relatively coarser density methods , to afford correct differences between the values for difFerent salts , is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the difference shown between the values for the potassium and rubidium salts , namely , is seyenteen times as great as the real difference , which is now shown to exist .
SUMMARY 0F CONCLUSIONS .
esults of the investigation are presented in the following summary .
1 .
coefFicients of cubical expansion of the thorhombic crystals of the normal of potassium , ) exhibit a progression , corresponding to the ession of the atomic weights of the respective metals .
This is true of both the constants and in the genel.al expression for the coefficient of cubical expansion , , for any temperature .
The order of progression of the two constants is inverted ; , the coefficient for inishes with increasing atomic weight of the metal , while , half the increment the coefficient per degree of telnperature , creases .
consequence of rule 2 the fficients of cubical expansion of the three , with rise of temperature , and attain equality , within the limits of OF , AND I. I experimental error , at Beyond the temperature of identity divergence occurs and an increase of atomic weight is now accompanied by an in the coefficient of cubical expansion .
4 .
The thermal deformation is of the nature of an nsion in all directions in the crystals of all three sulphates .
5 .
The differences between the of linear ansion along the three crystallographical axial directions of any one salt , only to oneeighth of the total coefficient , are large compared with the difference .
the values for the same direction of the three salts .
6 .
The operation of rule 5 , together with the fact the cement of one metal by another is accompanied by considerable modifications of the relations of of the three values for the original salt , those corresponding to the axes prevent the coefficients of linear expansion for any one direction of the from exhibiting any progression corresponding to that of the atomic weights of three metals .
These directional perturbations are , however , ] penlsative , so that the effect of interchange of the metals is clearly exhibited by the solid deformation , the cubical expansion , the coefficients of which and their increments have been shown to exhibit a progression according to the atomic weight of the metal , as stated in rule 1 .
7 .
The increment of the linear coefficient of expansion for the direction of the vertical axis of each salt , is about twice as large as the increments for the other two directions and , for which latter the increments are nearly .
This property is analogous to the optical behaviour , the active p ( diminished ) by rise of temperature much more in the direction of in the other two directions , in which the lesser amounts of change are nearly 8 .
The amount of expansion along the direction of the is approximately identical for all three sulphates , ting that of the metals is without influence on the thermal behaviour along the axis of the crystals .
The crystals of three salts also expand least in this direction , which is therefore the commoll minimum axis of the soid .
9 .
The chief of the directional perturbations , cferred to under ) , reversal , for temperatures below , of the directions of the maxin l mediate axes of the thermal ellipsoid for rubidium , com with their directions in the potassium and caesium salts .
The is is the crystallographical axis for the two latter salts , but for the similar reversal of the direction of the first median line , the ) the optical ellipsoid ( the indicatrix ) , : to occurs .
the , in the case of rubidium sulphate .
The maximum thermal axis is identical in with the optical first median line .
10 .
At higher temperatures the same relations still ) .
the ) caesium salts , both the V0L .

