66 Mr. F. Keeble and Dr. F. W. Gamble .
Isolation of [ Oct. 6 , tropic in origin is shown by the fact that they may be produced without any cells being killed .
In Brunchhorst 's experiments the electrolysis presumably occurred in the superficial cells of the roots submerged in water , the tissues being sufficiently impermeable superficially to the liberated acid and alkaline ions to allow them to accumulate beyond the minimum for stimulation .
Although the curvature is usually sharp and strongly localised to the point of application of the electrode , the discriminatory power of the root , as well as the relation of the rates of growth on concave and convex sides to the normal rate of growth , suffice to show that the response is a stimulatory one , and is not due to the direct action of the products of electrolysis , retarding growth on one side or accelerating it on the other .
On the Isolation of the Infecting Organism ( " Zoochlorella " ) of Convoluta roscoffensis .
By Fkedekick Keeble , M.A. , University College , Reading , and F. W. Gamble , D.Sc .
, University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Sydney J. Hickson , F.R.S. Received October 6 , 1905 .
) The present paper gives a preliminary account , ( 1 ) of experiments proving that the green cells ( " zoochlorellse " ) of Convoluta roscoffensis result from infection from without : ( 2 ) of the means whereby the infecting organism may be cultivated outside the body of the animal : and ( 3 ) of the nature of the infecting organism .
1 .
Evidence for Infection.\#151 ; In our former papers* we reached the conclusion that though direct proof of infection was lacking , the evidence pointed most strongly to infection as the source of the green cells of Convoluta .
We showed , moreover , that the difficulty in the way of obtaining direct proof of the origin of these green cells is due to the fact that the mucilaginous capsules that invest the clutches of eggs laid by Convoluta are rarely , if ever , sterile .
Even when adults are washed repeatedly in sterilised seawater and caused to lay in sterilised surroundings , their egg-capsules become covered in time with a varied flora of colourless and of green organisms .
It is therefore necessary to isolate the young at the moment of hatching .
During the present summer we have done this in larger numbers than before and maintained them in carefully filtered sea-water .
Such young Convoluta * " The Bionomics of Convoluta roscojfensis , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 93 , and 'Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' vol. 47 , p. 363 , 1903 .
1905 .
] the Infecting Organism of Convoluta roscoffensis .
67 remain colourless and may be kept in this condition for at least a month without showing any sign of infection , whilst at any time batches of them may be caused to become green in one to three days by the addition of seawater or of cultures of the infecting organism .
2 .
The Cultivation of the Infecting Organism.\#151 ; All attempts to cultivate green cells taken from the body of Convoluta have failed .
Haberlandt made an unsuccessful attempt , we ourselves were equally unsuccessful , and so also was Miss Harriette Chick , who brought to the task great experience of such researches and the most recent methods .
The problem had therefore to be attacked from the other end .
If the green prisoners of Convoluta never escape alive , the only chance of obtaining the infecting organism lies in catching it before its entrance into the animal .
A scrutiny of many attempts to obtain colourless Convoluta in large quantities revealed the fact that generally egg-capsules , isolated in sterile water , give rise to Convoluta which remain colourless for a fairly well-marked period of two or three weeks .
After this time , however , green specimens make their appearance .
Sometimes the number of green animals thus appearing is few ; more often it increases with great rapidity .
Such results suggested that the infecting organism occurs sporadically on or in the capsules ; that it divides freely in this situation ; and that after a period of vegetative division it is liberated in sufficiently large numbers to infect the hundreds of Convoluta experimented upon .
During the past summer this hypothesis has been put to the test and found to be correct .
Large numbers of egg-capsules were kept in filtered water and the young Convoluta upon hatching were removed , so that the vessels contained only empty capsules or capsules the eggs of which had failed to hatch .
These vessels were kept under observation .
At the end of three weeks several minute spherical bodies of a spinach-green colour were detected .
Upon microscopical examination these proved to be colonies of green cells enclosed by and filling an egg-capsule .
During examination the membrane around such a colony bursts , and the contents , previously quiescent , swarm out of the capsule , revealing themselves as so many unicellular flagellated green organisms .
It remained to apply the infection test .
Samples of colourless Convoluta reared in sterilised surroundings were put into the vessel containing these flagellated cells .
They became infected , and in the course of two or three days exhibited in their tissues green cells identical in character with those of normal Convoluta roscoffensis .
Similarly , sterilised sea-water containing cultures , of these green organisms is as potent as ordinary unsterilised sea-water in producing infection .
68 On the Infecting Organism o/ * Convoluta roscoffensis .
Ordinary sea-water or such cultures alike induce infection within a few days , when added to just hatched Convol reared previously under sterile conditions ; whereas the addition of sterile sea-water to samples from the same stock of Convoluta produces no infection .
3 .
Nature of the Infecting Organism.\#151 ; Whilst reserving for a detailed and illustrated account the full description of the organism infecting Convoluta roscoffensis , we may here briefly refer to its more salient characters and systematic position .
In its adult and holophytic stage , the motile green organism is ovoid and flattened in front .
At the anterior end it possesses two pairs of similar flagella .
A basin-shaped chloroplast envelops the greater part of the body , and is turned in anteriorly , forming a clear border to a colourless funnel-shaped area which runs axially for a third of the cell 's length .
A plate-like red " eye-spot " or stigma , with a darker rim , lies somewhat excentrically a little in front of the middle of the cell and not in relation to the flagella .
The resting nucleus is spherical .
Near the posterior end of the chloroplast is a large octagonal pyrenoid , provided with a starch sheath , giving it a somewhat irregular outline .
True starch , giving a marked blue colour with iodine , is present in quantity .
A cell-wall is either absent or of extreme tenuity in the organism when first liberated , but later on a marked wall of mucilaginous character is demonstrable and may reach a considerable thickness .
These characters indicate that the green cells of Convoluta roscoffensis are true algse , belonging to the Chlorophycese and allied to Chlamydomonas .
The presence of four equal flagella suggests that they belong to the genus Carteria* * Blackman and Tansley , ' New Phytologisst , ' vol. 1 , p. 23 , 1902 .

