132 First Photographs of the Canals of Mars By Professor Percival Lowell , Flagstaff Observatory , Arizona .
( Communicated by Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received September 27 , \#151 ; Read November 16 , 1905 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] To make the canals of Mars write their own record on a photographic plate , so that astronomers might have at first hand objective proof of their reality , has long been one of the objects of this observatory .
The endeavour has at last succeeded .
Unnecessary as such corroboration was to the observers themselves , it is different with the world at large ; for the work of the camera at once puts the canals in a position where scientists in general , as well as astronomers in particular , are able to judge the phenomena .
The difficulties in the way , however , at first proved insuperable .
The main markings of the planet were secured by the camera here four years ago , but to get the canals to show was a matter of an altogether different order of difficulty from that of celestial photography in general .
This will be appreciated on recalling Richey 's excellent photographs of the moon , within the wall of one of whose smaller craters the whole disc of the planet might be enclosed .
When it is further considered that the delicate detail on this disc bears to it the same relative ratio that the craters themselves do to the whole moon , the almost impossible task of reproducing the canals will be understood .
After unsuccessful attempts at the last two oppositions , results were finally secured by Mr. Lampland 's great skill and long-continued study of the subject .
A preliminary notice of the result was given in Bulletin No. 21 , in which the prints left something to be desired , but the present paper presents them in a later and more perfected form .
The difficulties encountered were two-fold : the securing instrumental means of a high enough order of delicacy , and the taking of the photographs in such a manner as to minimise the destructive effects of the air-waves .
Both obstacles were overcome by the combination of the following conditions .
First , the glass used was the 24-inch refractor of this observatory , which recent tests have shown to be , from the favourableness of its position , the most space-penetrating glass at present in use .
In a chart of the region following 3 Ophiuchi it shows 172 stars , the Lick chart of the same region showing 161 , and the newly added stars being all of the 16th or 17th magnitude .
The Washington Naval Observatory glass showed in this region First Photographs of the Canals of .
133 63 stars .
This result is partly due to the glass , which is Clark 's latest work , and one of Mantois ' most homogeneous meltings , being almost absolutely free of bubbles and striae , but chiefly to the air , which is at once unusually transparent and steady .
The site was chosen on this account , though it was not thought that the difference would amount to a whole magnitude better than the Lick , whiQh , in view of the greater size of the Lick glass , these tests show to be the case .
Mr. Slipher 's tests of spectrographic exposure times as compared with those recorded for the Yerkes glass point to the same result .
Second , a knowledge of the atmospheric conditions needed to succeed has been one of the main studies of this observatory for the last ten years , and it is to the outcome of these researches that the result is in large part due .
It has been found here that the air-waves were detrimental in two ways , depending upon their size relatively to the glass .
They are made up of trains of waves of condensation and rarefaction , and if the distance from crest to hollow be equal to the diameter of the object-glass , the train will produce a bodily oscillation of the whole image in the field of view ; if , however , the wave-length be shorter than this , partative motion occurs , while the bodily motion is reduced , the result being that we have an apparently steady image , but a blurring , and finally a complete obliteration , of the delicate detail .
It is to this fact that is due much of the misconception on the subject ; the image often appears to be perfectly shown and yet discloses either no fine detail or else shows such only in a blurred and indefinite condition .
This is the reason the canals are often reported to be streaks , whereas under better atmospheric conditions , i.e. , when the relatively small waves are absent , they appear as they really are , very narrow dark lines .
The other aspect is produced by the blurring tremor of the air-waves , the real image of the canal being thus spread out and consequently diffused .
Both aspects have been seen and studied here , so that we are certain of their relation to one another .
The larger the glass the more likely is this state of confused illusion to occur , a knowledge of which suggested to us the diaphragming-down of the 24-inch objective , with a result which was really surprising .
It was found very rare that the definition was not improved by the artifice ; in the exceptional moments the full aperture absolutely corroborates the small ones .
This same device was next applied to photography , and the camera entirely corroborated the evidence of the eye .
This is an important fact , inasmuch as it shows that ninety-nine times out of one hundred , which was our experience , a smaller aperture shows planetary detail better than a large one ; in the one hundredth case the large glass is able to assert its superiority and then Prof. P. Lowell .
[ Sept. 27 , entirely corroborates the clear-cutness of all the smaller apertures had shown .
This is the second point that made these photographs possible .
The objective was diaphragined-down to suit the particular wave-currents travelling at the moment .
Third , a colour screen was made by Mr. Wallace , the well-known maker of colour screens , to suit exactly the colour curve of the objective , so that it should let pass those rays only where the curve was at its flattest and therefore the focus the same for all .
Fourth , Cramer 's isochromatic plates were used , which , from their colour curve , carry the definiteness on to the photographic plate .
Fifth , the camera was made movable , so that many images might be taken consecutively on one and the same plate ; for detail of the delicateness of the canals shows or hides according to the air-waves of the moment , coming out in the lucid intervals perfectly distinctly , but being blurred in confusion after the manner of the twinkling of a star when the light waves are unfortunately refracted .
Sixth , a particularly steady driving clock .
About seven hundred images of the planet were secured in this way during the time that it was sufficiently favourably placed for such work at the opposition which has just passed .
The time available was only while the planet subtended a disc of about 15 seconds of arc , a smaller disc rendering the details of the image too nearly of a size with the silver grains of the emulsion .
These plates , when sufficiently good , all show the canals , but as it is not practicable to reproduce them all , owing to the great difficulty and expense of the matter , a few have been selected at intervals round the planet .
The photographs show that , within the limits imposed by the silver grain of the plates , the canals are lines , narrow and direct , following either arcs of great circles or curving ( like the Djihoun ) in a systematic manner .
In other words the photographs prove up to the extent of their ability what observations by the eye here have asserted .
The eye is able to go much further than the camera , and the better these strange markings are seen under the best conditions yet procurable ( at Flagstaff ) the stranger they show .
That the camera confirms , as far as it can go , the eye observations at Flagstaff , should lead any unprejudiced mind to consider very seriously the probability of their being correct beyond .
At first glance the several diverse parts of the planet may be instantly recognised , and on more careful scrutiny a great many canals will be seen recorded .
In looking at them it should be remembered that , in order to minimise the time of exposure sufficiently , a large-grain plate had to be used , and more than a very slight magnification of these already enlarged prints will suffice to make that grain disturbingly prominent .
A careful examinaLowell .
A = 20 ' June 6 , 9 h. 8\#151 ; 12 m. A = 194 ' May 20 , 10 h. 42\#163 ; -45 m. A = 265 ' June 19 , 9 h. 25 m. A = 300 ' May 11 , 12 h. 31\#151 ; 38 m. A sb 348 ' June 9 , 8 h. 48\#151 ; 50 m. Roy .
Soc. ProcA .
vol. 77 , Plate 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
A = 190 ' May 20 , 10 h. 25\#151 ; 40 m. Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
A = 356 ' June 9 , 9 h. 20\#151 ; 29 m. A = 17 ' June 9 , 10 h. 49 m.\#151 ; 11 h. 7 A = 171 ' May 22 , 10 h. 20\#151 ; 30 m. A = 249 ' June 19 , 8 h. 17\#151 ; 26 m. A = 299 ' May 8 , 10 h. 42\#151 ; 52 m. A = 340 ' June 11 , 9h .
30\#151 ; 39 m. 1905 .
] First Photographs of the Canals of Mars .
tion , however , will show that any discontinuity observed in these markings is due to the grain and not to the marking itself .
Indeed , though I do not care to assert it now , there is evidence from these plates that both a double canal and a double oasis have been photographed .
The prints here presented were obtained after those on which the original announcement was made , and the process ( by Mr. Lampland 's skill ) has in them been brought to greater perfection .
Side by side with the prints are given reproductions of my own drawings , made absolutely independently of the photographs and selected for about the regions and the times at which the photographs were made .
Sometimes the canals in the photographs actually appear better than they do in the drawings , though , of course , the eye is a very much more powerful instrument than the camera , because the camera must register the bad moments with the good , and details perfectly distinct to the eye must not be expected in the prints in consequence .
To produce their true effect the prints should be looked at either without further magnification or with only a very slight one , for the grain of the plate will soon destroy the true character of the detail .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Margaritifer Sinus region , 1905 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Sinus Titanum region , 1905 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Aquae Calidse region , 1905 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Syrtis Major region , 1905 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Aeria region , 1905 .
X = Martian meridian central at the time .

