]\gt ; The Motion of Viscous Liquid due to Uniform and Periodic Motion Maintained over Segment of an Infinite By W. J. HARRISON , M.A. , Fellow of Clare College , Cambridge ; Assistant Lecturer in Mathematics , University of Liverpool .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received October 14 , \mdash ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) The author was led to a consideration of the whose solutions are presented in this paper by the attempt to solve a certain problem in the theory of lubrication .
But it was thought that these solutions have sufficient intrinsic interest to warrant their separate publication as examples in theoretical hydrodynamics , the more physical pplications to lubrication being reserved for further development .
In the first three problems infinite viscous liquid is maintained in motion by uniform or periodic tangential motion of a part ( a strip of infinite length ) of its plane boundary .
In the remaining two problems the liquid is further limited by a second plane boundary parallel to the first .
A departure , which may be more or less important , from the usual actual physical conditions is neoessitated by the result that it is impossible to maintain the condition of no relative velocity at the boundary .
The treatment of the problem with the condition of no slip leads to a discontinuity in the velocity of the liquid at the boundaries of the moving strip .
But , on the other hand , from the nature of the problem this condition of no slip is an impossible physical state of affairs in the of two hnes of the boundary .
This complexity is avoided if we take the more general condition of slip with tangential traction proportional to the relative velocity , and then the case of no slip will be approached by taking the ratio of traction to slip to increase indefinitely .
There are two other alternative suppositions which might be made and which seem to carry with them a more physical appearance .
Ihese will have to be examined before further applicatio.ns are made of these solutions , but the solutions in their present form are given for their own interest .
Problem 1 .
In this and the following calculations the motion is two-dimensional , and therefore be coniidered to take place in ths plane ; accordingly , the third co-ordinate will never be mentioned .
Mr. W. J. Harrison .
Motion of Viscous Liquid [ Oct. 14 , Viscous liquid occupies the part of the plane for which is positive , being bounded by the axis of .
This boundary is fixed , except that between it is given a uniform velocity in its own direction .
The effect may be produced by supposing the part of the axis cut away , and underneath in contact with it a second boundary is placed which moves with the given velocity .
It is required to determine the motion which is thus maintained .
The motion is steady and is , moreover , assumed to be slow .
* It follows that the stream function satisfies the equation If we assume a distm.bance depending on , then where is positive .
This form of the stream function is appropriate to a velocity along the bounding plane varying as .
Let the velocity of the boundary.in its own direction be It is impossible to satisfy the condition of no relative motion at the boundary owing to the discontinuity that would arise at the points in the final synthesis of the harmonic elements .
Accordingly , the assumption is made that the boundary exerts a traction on the liquid proportional to the relative velocity .
Thus , is the appropnate condition .
If be made very small the condition of no relative velocity is approximately satisfied in general .
The remaining boundary condition is These lead to .
If the distribution of velocity of the boundary in its own direction be given by , then Suppose The fact that the motion has to be assumed slow in order to obtain linear equations is a very serious limitation on the interest of the solution ; but it be noticed that when it is a question of motion between parallel planes which are very near together the non-linear terms are neglected by Osborne Reynolds in his paper on lubrication , for reasons , and the limitation of slow motion is thus removed .
This consideration applies to the last two problems .
1912 .
] over a Segment of Infinite Plane Hence A convenient method of evaluating the definite integral is to plot the integrand for particular numerical values of .
But it is to be noticed that if be small , say , then , except near the boundary , is given by the integrated terms to a high degree of approximation .
In fig. 1 the stream lines are shown for the case .
They are drawn for the equidistant values of the stream function .
They are , however , independent of FIG. 2 .
FIG. 1 .
In fig. 2 the stream lines are in the neighbourhood of for the same case .
The method of evaluating the integral is similar to one to be mentioned later .
The stream lines are drawn for Distribution of Vdocity along the Axis of Now ( provided ( ab ) ( ab ) .
Mr. W. J. Harrison .
Motion of Viscous Liquid [ Oct. 14 , Hence -Si Si where The distribution of the velocity along the boundary , of which the moving section is bounded by , is exhibited in the following table .
The evaluation has been performed by the aid of Glaisher 's Tables of the Sine and Cosine Integrals .
table shows the ratio of the velocity to In addition to the above values it is interesting to note , in the case of , how rapidly the velocity changes in the neighbourhood of . .
From the distribution of the relative velocity of the piece and the liquid in contact with it , the traction exerted by the one on the other can be directly obtained , where is the coefficient of viscosity .
The total traction exerted by the liquid on the sliding piece per unit of its length is given as follows : the values , 1 of has the values , the breadth being two units .
The total rate of flow in the direction of motion of the sliding piece is , and this is independent of .
This is to be explained by the fact that , although the sliding piece exerts less traction on the liquid the greater the value of , the liquid itself experiences resistance from the remainder of the boundary .
1912 .
] over of an Inflnite Plane Boundary .
Problem From the foregoing solution it is ible to deriye immediateJy the stream lines where there are two such sl , iding pieces in diffel.ent parts of the boundary .
In fig. 3 the stream lines are drawn for the case when the part of the boundary is given a velocity in the direction of , and the part is given an equal velocity in the opposite direction .
The stream lines are drawn for the equidistant values of the stream .
FIG. 4 .
In fig. 4 the stream lines are drawn for the case in which the velocity of the second sliding piece is half that of the first .
The lines are shown for the same values of as in the previous case , except that is drawn as well .
Problem 3 .
We proceed to consider the case in which the sliding piece , instead of having a uniform velocity , is given a periodic velocity pt .
The stream function must now satisfy the equation where is the kinematic coefficieI ) of viscosity .
The appropriate solution is , where leading to VOL. LXXXVIII.\mdash ; A. Mr. W. J. Harrison .
Motion of Viscous Liquid [ Oct. 14 , being taken positive .
Also , since we are concerned with a maintained motion , is real .
The axis of is a stream line , and therefore This solution is appropriate to the harmonic distribution of velocity of the boundary .
Hence the remaining boundary condition is This leads to Hence Taking real parts , we find where where The solution , following the notation of Problem 1 , is The work of calculating the stream lines for particular values of the constants involved is a matter of some complexity .
I have performed it for one case , but not sufficiently to give more than a rough idea of their form .
But it was possible to see that a vortex is pel'iodically formed and destroyed in the neighbourhood of the sliding piece in this particular case .
It would be interesting to trace the stream lines for a range of values of the time , and so exhibit the growth and decay of this vortex .
But at the present time I have not the requisite leisure .
Distribution of Velocity over the Sliding Piece.\mdash ; It can easily be shown that pt The numerical evaluation of this integral presents features of some interest .
Apart from the variables are has been taken equal to one unit as before , , and the integral has been evaluated for 1912 .
] over a Segment of an Infinite Plane The method of evaluation depends upon the magnitude of , and one or two illustrations of the methods employed will be given .
since is very small for .
At the same time , so that the second integral is capable of evaluation by the aid of the tables of sine and cosine integrals as in similar integrals in Problem 1 .
The first integral can be evaluated by plotting the integrand .
In this same case the coefficient of pt can be evaluated by plotting the integrand , since it decreases rapidly with The coefficient of pt for involves an integral which can be replaced by to a good of accuracy .
These integrals are easily evaluated .
The coefficient of for involves an integral which can be replaced by Or ( d ) .
for any value of between , except near these limits .
When is very great Bepresenting the velocity at the centre of the sliding piece by X pt , we have the following values for X and X ecreases from 1 to increases from to a maximum value and then decreases again to zero .
The velocity at the point is 1 or 2 per cent. Mr. W. J. Harrison .
Mation of [ Oct. 14 , below that at the centre , and at and practically Mlf their values at the centre .
The maximum ( as regards the time ) integral traction on the piece per unit of its length can easily be found .
It has the following values in units of the system of measurements omployod .
For water , corresponds to a period of sec. in C.G.S. units , so that for this period the traction is about 18 times that for steady motion .
Probl , This is the same as the first problem , except that the liquid is further bounded by , whioh is fixed .
The corresponding boundary condition is taken to be that no relative motion is possible over it .
A possible stream function is given by The conditions to be satisfied are oos ; .
These lead to , and Using Fourier 's theorem , we obtain the stream function in the form where In fig. 5 the stream lines are drawn for the case of Since calculating for the unpractical case of , I have lighted upon a method of evaluating the integral for , but the advantage of recalculation is not great in the ease of so great as 2 .
1912 .
] over a Segment of an Piane Boundary .
\mdash ; FIG. 6 .
Velocity of the Xiquid at the Centre of the Sliding ce.\mdash ; The expression for the velocity of the liquid along the boundary is The ratio of the velocity at the centre of the sliding piece to is given below :\mdash ; When is small , it is easily shown that the velocity at any point of the sliding piece is , except that the approximation breaks down when is small , and that at the velocity drops to half that at the centre .
Hence the traction exerted by the liquid on the sliding piece is ( per unit length ) As is decreased indefinitely , this approaches the limit .
This is the same limit as in the case of the rapid periodic motion of the last case .
The liquid is bounded by two parallel planes as in the previous case , but the sliding piece is given a periodic velocity pt .
The appropriate typical harmonic solution is with the same notation as in Problem 3 .
Mr. W. J. Harrison .
' Motion of .
Viscous Liqud [ Oct. 14 , The solution follows as in previous oases , and I proceed at once to discuss the velocity of the liquid at points on the sliding piece .
Consider If vary slowly with within the range ( say ) , the value of the integral is to a very fair degree of accuracy .
It is assumed that is decreasing and one-signed .
The rate of variation need not be very slow for the approximation to hold , for example may decrease practically- to zero in the interval .
The approximations which follow are based on this consideration , but it is not claimed that the inter- mediate results in the range are more than roughly correct .
where is the real part of divided by Now , provided be small , the variation in is s1nall for moderate values of .
Accordingly is replaced by .
Now , when , where ( say ) .
Put It is found that where ( a ) Approximation when is small.\mdash ; The velocity at the centre of the sliding piece is equal to the coefficient being the same as in the case of steady motion .
This approximation is valid if ( 1 ) , which gives for water a period of 5 mins .
and over , ( 2 ) cm .
, , which gives for water a period of 3 sec. and over .
1912 .
] over Segment of an Infinite Boundary .
( b ) Approximation when , so that and can be neglected , compared with , etc.\mdash ; This applies in the case of water to periods of second and under , and second and under , for the cases and respectively .
The velocity at the centre of the sliding piece is The folowing table includes the whole range of values of , for , in which case , and the above formula is simplified .
It follows that the traction exerted on the sliding piece bears a ratio to that exerted in the steady motion which lies between 1 and It be noticed in Problem 3 when the period of the motion is very small , and in both of the last two problems when is small , that the condition of no slip at the boundary is not approximately satisfied for .
If be taken sufficiently small , then it is easily shown that the maximum total traction per unit length on the piece has a value , in the case of very rapid motion in Problem 3 .
In the steady motion of Problem 4 , when the distance between the two planes is very small , the integral traction has the value .
In the periodic motion of Problem 5 , if be small and , the integral traction depends upon and not upon , and has the maximum value .
If , however , be small and sufficiently great , the traction is independent of and has the value .
This can be shown from the approximate expressions for , which are given above .
Thus in the case of periodic motion between two near parallel planes the integral traction is equal to or greater than , and less than or equal to , provided this second limit is greater than the first .

