Voltaic Battery , with a view of ascertaining the rationalc of its Ac ?
tion and on its application to Eudiometry .
" By William Robert Grove , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
The author , referring to a paper published in the Philosophical Magazine for December 1842 , giving an account of a voltaic battery of which the active ingredients are gases , and by which the decomposition of water is effected by means of its composition , describes several variations in the form of the apparatus recorded in that paper .
The experiments he has made with this new apparatus , and the details of which occupy the greater part of the present memoir , he conceives establish the conclusion that the phenomena exhibited in the gaseous battery are in strict conformity with Fara ?
day 's law of definite electrolysis .
Thejr also confirm him in the opinion which he had expressed in his original paper , and which had been controverted by Dr. Schcenbein , in a communication to the Philosophical Magazine for March 1S43 , as well as by other philosophers , namely , that the oxygen , in that battery , immediately contributes to the production of the voltaic current .
Besides employing as the active agents oxygen and hydrogen gases , hc extends his experiments to the following combinations : lmnicly , Oxygen and peroxicle of nitrogen ; Oxygen and protoxide of nitrogen ; Oxygen and olefiant gas ; Oxygen and carbonic oxide ; Oxygen and chlorine ; Chlorine and dilute sulphuric acid ; Chlorine and solutions of bromine and iodine in alternate lubcri ; Chlorine and hydrogen ; Hydrogen and carbonic oxide ; Chlorine and olefiant gas ; Oxygen and binoxicle of nitrogen ; Oxygen and nitrogen , with solution of sulphate of ammonia ; Carbonic acid and carbonic oxide , with oxalic acid as an electro ?
lyte ; Hydrogen , nitrogen , and sulphate of ammonia .
The author concludes , on reviewing the whole of this series of experiments , that , with the execption , perhaps , of olefiant gas , which appears to give rise to an extremely feeble current , chlorine and oxygen , on the one hand , and hydrogen and carbonic oxide , on the other , are the only gases which are decidedly capable of electrosynthetically combining so as to produce a voltaic current .
Hc thinks that the vapours of bromine and of iodine , were they less soluble , would probably also be found efficient as electro-negave gases .
He proceeds to consider , in the remaining part of his paper , the application of the gas battery to the purposes of eudiometry , 1ouncled on the circumstance already mentioned , that nitrogen gas , as well as several other gases , are absolutely without effect in as far as regards any alteration of their volume , and may therefore be advantageously employed in the analysis of atmospheric air , or other mixed gases .
Several experiments of this nature are described , and others suggested for future trial .
Various theoretical views , arising from this train of inquiry , are then discussed ; particularly with re ?
ference to the contact theory , with which the author conceives that the action of the gas battery is not reconcilcable ; and also to the source of the caloric evolved during voltaic action , which hc is strongly inclined to think is in the battery itself .

