480 Mr. L. Hill .
On Cerebral Anaemia and the " On Cerebral Anaemia and the Effects which follow Ligation of the Cerebral Arteries .
" By Leonard Hill , M.B. Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. Received March 22 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
Cerebral Anaemia produced by Immobilisation the Erect Posture .
Many hutch rabbits when immobilised in the erect posture become convulsed and after a short period of time die ( 10'\#151 ; 20 ' ) from failure of respiration.* The blood , owing to its weight , congests within the abdominal vessels , while the abdominal viscera drag on and so kink the vena cava inferior .
The heart , therefore , gradually empties , and the cerebral circulation ceases .
These results are due to the flaccid and atonic nature of the abdominal wall of the hutch rabbits .
Chloralisa-tion hastens the onset of death by'dilating the arteries and by stopping the convulsions , for the spasms help to return the venous blood to the heart .
Compression of the abdomen by a bandage , or immersion of the animal in a bath of water up to the neck , entirely prevents the onset of symptoms .
In the case of the bath the hydrostatic pressure of the water outside balances , but not completely , the hydrostatic pressure of the blood within .
At the same time the water causes the viscera to float upwards , and so removes the kinking of the vena cava inferior .
Wild rabbits , owing to the better tone of their abdominal muscles , are not affected by immobilisation in the erect posture until after the lapse of some hours , and the same is the case in respect of dogs , cats , and monkeys .
When the tone of the skeletal and vascular muscle becomes exhausted in these animals , owing to exposure , shock , \amp ; c. , or is abolished by anaesthetics , the blood congests to the lower parts .
Death finally results from cerebral anaemia .
Immersion in a bath or compression of the abdomen has the same restorative effect on the circulation of these animals as on that of the hutch rabbit .
Intense congestion and oedema of the lower parts , accompanied by thirst , is said to occur in men under like conditions , and death no doubt results from cerebral anaemia .
Hutch rabbits , when thrown into syncope by immobilisation in the erect posture , recover almost immediately on their return to the horizontal position , or on immersion in a bath , or on compression of the abdomen .
The animals when returned to the horizontal posture may # This fact was noted by Salatlie# Effects which follow Ligation of the Cerebral Arteries .
481 be paralysed for a few minutes , and tumble and walk on the back of the fore-paws , but these symptoms quickly disappear even though the pupils ' light reflex may have been abolished for 15\#151 ; 20 ' .
2 .
Cortical Excitability after Ligation of Cerebral Arteries .
The author has produced contra-lateral clonic spasms in himself by sudden compression of one carotid artery .
Consciousness of the cortical discharge arises from the sensations received from the parts in movement .
The cortical discharge itself is unaccompanied with consciousness .
The cortex cerebri of dogs remains excitable and even hyper-excitable to electrical excitation after both carotid and vertebral arteries have been tied .
The brain under these conditions is supplied with blood by the branches of the superior intercostal artery which enter the anterior spinal artery .
The brain is , however , rendered profoundly anaemic by the operation , and the animals are in consequence rendered more or less demented , anaesthetic , and paralysed .
The paralysis results from a block established by the anaemia in the sensory projection , and association fields of the cortex cerebri for the motor cells are unaffected , in so far as not only purposive movements but typical fit3 can be excited on stimulating the " motor area .
" The " motor centres " are clearly not autonomous , and these experiments confirm the previous deductions concerning the origin of the paralysis which was obtained by Mott and Sherrington after division of the posterior nerve-roots of a limb , and by Exner after circum-vallation of the cortex .
Isolation of the cortical motor cells from sensory impulses produces paralysis , although the cells remain directly excitable .
In many monkeys the two carotids^ and even the two carotid and one vertebral artery , can be tied without lessening the cortical excitability .
The ligation of all four arteries is followed within one minute by loss of cortical excitability .
In some monkeys ( especially those in bad condition ) ligation of both carotids abolishes the excitability .
3 .
The Effect of Absinthe after Ligation of the Cerebral Arteries .
The injection of absinthe , after ligation of the four cerebral arteries in cats and of the two carotid arteries in monkeys , produces as a rule only extensor rigidity of the fore limbs and dyspnceic respiration .
No clonic convulsions occur .
On loosening the carotids violent clonic and tonic convulsions ensue , and these can be again cut short by re-clamping the carotids .
So soon as the carotids are re-clamped , the extensor rigidity reappears .
It is deduced from these experiments that clonus is of cortical , and tonus of sub-cortical , and probably of cerebellar , origin .
VOL. LXVI .
* P Mr. L. Hill .
On Cerebral Anaemia and the 4 .
The Late Effects which follow Ligation of the Four Cerebral Arteries .
These vary in different animals .
Almost all rabbits die from failure of respiration within three minutes , after convulsions of an asphyxial type .
There occur vagal inhibition of the heart , general vaso-eonstric-tion , and a high arterial pressure , prior to the failure of the circulatory system .
The symptoms are in every way similar to those produced by clamping the trachea .
Cats become comatose and die within a few hours from respiratory paralysis , which is gradual in onset .
Cheyne Stokes respiration sometimes results , and at a later stage long-drawn spasmodic gasps of the diaphragm occur at rare intervals .
Extensor rigidity often occurs before death .
Cats may survive the ligation of the two carotids and one vertebral artery .
Dogs recover from ligation of the four cerebral arteries , some after scarcely any symptoms , others after passing through a stage of dementia , accompanied by paralysis and anaesthesia , which lasts three or four days .
The dogs during this period of dementia behave exactly like the dogs in which Goltz produced extensive destruction of the cerebrum .
The spatial sensations depending on the nerves of skin , joints , and muscles are no longer brought into association with the sensations which are derived from the higher senses .
Reflex defence and locomotor movements alone persist .
Monkeys almost all die within twenty-four hours after ligation of the two carotids and one vertebral artery .
The animals become soporose and then comatose .
Extensor spasms , extensor rigidity , and failure of respiration follow .
Monkeys recover without symptoms after ligation of both carotids .
In one monkey , after the two carotids and one vertebral artery had been tied , there ensued extensor rigidity and profound paralysis and dementia .
This animal was kept alive by spoon feeding and continued in the same state .
It was killed on the fifth day .
The stage of sopor and coma or dementia may not appear in dogs or monkeys for an hour or so after the ligation of the arteries has been effected .
On recovering from the ansesthetic the animals may at first appear lively and intelligent .
\#171 ; \#171 ; , In man the ligation of one carotid artery is not free from risk , while the ligation of both carotids is recognised as a most dangerous operation .
The two arteries can be tied successfully , at intervals of time .
Attention is more particularly drawn to the following conclusions deduced from this research:\#151 ; 1 .
The cerebral circulation of man , in the erect posture , depends on the tone and activity of the skeletal and respiratory muscles .
The blood and lymph are returned from the lower parts to the heart by the expressive action of the muscles and constant change of posture , 2 .
The functions of the brain may continue after a great diminution Effects which folio w Ligation of the Cerebral Arteries .
48 3 in blood supply .
This substantiates previous work of the author in regard to the slight metabolism of the brain as measured by the exchange in blood gases .
At the same time it does not favour the .anasmic theory of sleep .
3 .
The electrical excitability of the motor area of the cortex cerebri persists when the sensory side of the brain is to a large extent paralysed , and the animals rendered more or less demented by profound .cerebral anaemia .
4 .
The functions of the brain rapidly return so soon as efficient anastomosis is established .
The period of partial paralysis and .dementia lasts in dogs two or three days .
Rabbits recover after the pupil reflex has been abolished for 15"-^-20 " .
5 .
The limits between the degree of anaemia required to produce dementia and that which paralyses the respiratory centre are extremely narrow .
For example , monkeys recover without symptoms after ligation .of both carotids , but as a rule die after ligation of both carotids and .one vertebral artery. .
6 .
There is considerable variation in the number of arteries which can be safely tied in various animals , in man , birds , goats , and horses ( Mayer ) one carotid ; in monkeys both carotids \ in rabbits and cats both carotids and often both carotids and one vertebral ; in dogs both carotids and both vertebrals .
7 .
The four cerebral arteries can be safely tied in monkeys in successive operations .
8 .
The cortex cerebri is the place of discharge of clonic convulsions .
Tonus is of sub-cortical origin .
The clonic stage of an epileptic fit can be cut short by compression of both carotid arteries .
Dr. Mott , to whom I am greatly indebted for help and advice in this research , has determined by microscopical examination of the .anaemic brains by Nissl 's method , that\#151 ; 1 .
The cortical cells in the brains of the demented animals are swollen and diffusely stained .
The stichochrome granules are absent .
The nuclei are swollen .
The veins are congested and there may occur haemorrhages in the cortex .
2 .
The large pyramidal cells are least affected .
3 .
The changes occur very rapidly after ligation of the cerebral arteries , and disappear synchronously with the recovery of the animals irom the stage of dementia .
In the case of the monkey , described above , the cerebrum was softened in patches , many of the cortical cells were degenerated , and there were signs of active phagocytosis .
No changes in the neurons were displayed by the Golgi method .
The expenses of this research have been met by grants from the Royal Society Government Grant .

