VII .
" Notes on the Rearing of Tacnia echinococcus in the Dog , from Hydatids , with some Observations on the Anatomy of the Adult Worm .
" By EDWARD NETTLESHIP , Mem. Royal Agric .
Coll. Communicated by T. SPENCER COBBOLD , M.D. Received May 24 , 1866 .
On March 28th , 1866 , I obtained from Clare Market the liver and lungs of a sheep containing numerous Echinococcus hydatids ; in some the outer cyst was partly calcified , but all the hydatids contained clear fluid , and great numbers of scolices attached to the endocyst .
Within two hours of the death of the sheep to which the organs belonged , I gave two or three of the smaller hydatids to a young dog , about six months old ; first puncturing the hydatid and administering the collapsed cyst , and then making him drink the fluid of the cyst , in which some Echinococci were floating .
The next day I gave him a second feeding of the remaining hydatids ; this second batch he threw up within half an hour of the feeding , but he afterwards swallowed the broken membranes again , and did not afterwards vomit .
I was careful to administer the hydatids from both calcified and non-calcified cysts .
The animal remained perfectly healthy , and became very much fatter ; he was fed for the most part on cooked kitchen refuse , but I cannot be positive that he never obtained any raw food .
On May 15th ( the forty-seventh day after the first feeding ) I killed the animal , and examined the intestines .
In the first ten inches of bowel below the pylorus there were no Tnenise ; at that distance a single Taenia echinococcus appeared , moving actively ; for the next two or three inches there were none , but at about fourteen inches below the pylorus several more appeared , and immediately after this they became so numerous as to present almost the appearance of distended lacteals ; this continued for about a foot in extent , and then they gradually became less numerous , and ceased at about three feet from the pyloric orifice .
There were also four specimens of T. marginata , varying from two to three feet in length , and two of T. cucumerina .
The part of the intestine cnttaining T. echinococcus was immediately put into dilute carbolic acid , and the worms not examined until two days subsequently ; after that interval they were still tolerably adherent to the mucous membrane , though a good many had fallen off .
On detaching them with needles , or examining those which had fallen off , nearly all were found to be quite destitute of hooks ; but one ( from which the outline sketch , Plate VIII .
fig. 1 , was taken ) had a tolerably complete double row ; in this specimen , however , the hooks and proboscis were inverted , while in most specimens the latter part was protruded .
In fig. 2 is a single hook of T. echinococcus , probably from the posterior circlet , magnified more highly .
Fig. 3 shows at a , a hook of the posterior circlet , and at b , one from the anterior circlet of an Echinococcus-scolex from an ox .
There seems very little difference between corresponding hooks of the scolex and of the adult tapeworm , unless the latter be rather stouter and have larger processes .
On -lth of a square inch , where the worms were thickest , I counted twenty-five of them ; by calculation there were about twenty-two square inches of intestine covered in this way , allowing for the more thinly scattered parts at each end of the infected part ; this gives a total of 8800 specimens of T. echinococcus in this dog 's bowel .
I have examined carefully numerous specimens of these worms with the microscope , with especial reference to the arrangement of the sexual organs ; the great majority are sexually mature , and contain a greater or less number of eggs .
It is not easy to make out accurately the arrangement and connexions of the ovary , yelk-forming glands , and uterus , as described by Leuckart* , but fig. 4 gives a tolerably correct representation , in the 3rd ( immature ) segment .
At a is the vagina , continued as an indistinct tube to b , which I suppose to be the seminal vesicle ; immediately beyond this is a dark mass ( o ) containing spherical , highly refractive bodies ; this is the ovary .
On either side and in front of this are the yelk-forming glands ( e ) , two somewhat indefinite lobular organs apparently communicating with the vagina in front of the seminal vesicle .
At c and d are the globular testicles ; f is the rudimentary vas deferens .
Running forwards from the vagina is another narrower tube g , which passes quite to the anterior end of the segment , where it becomes at first slightly dilated ( fig. 5 , u ' ) , and afterwards enlarged into the head of the uterus ; a large spherical sac full of ova is readily seen with the naked eye in many sexually mature segments ( fig. 4 , ut .
) .
The greater part of the body of this tube also becomes enlarged into the uterus ( u , fig. 5 ) , but I think that the hinder part continues tubular , and probably constitutes the " wide cavity " leading from vagina to uterus , described by Leuckart .
In fig. 5 there is some appearance of this tube continued backwards from u ( a , fig. 5 ) , but I cannot follow it to any communication with the vagina ( va .
) .
The same is true in this specimen of the ovary ( ov .
) and seminal pouch ( s.p. ) .
The vitelligene glands ( e , fig. 4 ) have disappeared in fig. 5 , and the ovary has become less distinct , but the seminal pouch has developed somewhat , while in fig. 6 , taken from a sexually mature segment , the latter organ is still plainer ; the canal of the vagina has elongated , and shows besides the seminal pouch a smaller dilatation ( a , fig. 6 ) nearer the orifice .
In none of the mature segments have I been able to make out any communication between the vagina and uterus , either in front of or behind the seminal pouch .
Although Dr. Cobbold has succeeded in rearing a variety of tapeworms from their respective larvse , the Tcenia echinococcus has not hitherto been reared in this country .
The importance of this creature in its pathological relations , and the desideratum of more information as to its anatomy , have induced me to place the foregoing facts on record .
In conducting the investigation I have taken every precaution to prevent the escape and distribution of the ova and their contained proscolices .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE.-Fig .
5 .
va .
Vagina .
a. Tube ( ?
) leading from uterus to vagina .
ov .
Ovarium .
t. Testicles .
s. p. Seminal pouch .
v. d. Vas deferens .
u , u ' .
Uterus partly developed .
c. p. Cirrhus pouch .
i : i:ii ?
-- ?
I , C , " -I . ?
- ? ? ?
?--- ?
; ?
i:r ?
C : ?
-- ? ? ? ? ?
?:i / a a/ -1 , ? ? ?
?I ?
;:\ J 'i d " i ` ; ? ? ? ?
c:ii ? ? ? ?
' j !
:i -j F1 iI i : j -i. .
i- : / 1 ; C ) rC ) C ) 0 C ) C ) N Cs q- , , i_::-( : i ' .
i r ?
r ?
s. i:i ; rjd / i. . ?
i r\s ?
, i:'Si i ?
* ?
KK CZQ I.Lr3 * ' 33_ , , a--__.._ .
: ?
Y ; _1L ?
-i .
, ?
- ?
s ` ; ? ?
?--3 ?
' ) p ? .
" ?
_ ... .
: ir..IS ; 'r / ?
rL ' c , ?
9 ?
/ JJL'i - .
j :

