The reading of a paper , entitled , " An Experimental Inquiry into the Cause of the grave and acute Tones of the Human Voice .
" By John Bishop , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Secretary to the Royal Society , was resumed and concluded .
The author considers all the theories hitherto proposed respecting the functions of the organs of the human voice , as not only unsatisfactory , but as being founded on erroneous views .
He shows that the modulation of the tones of the voice is not the result of variations either exclusively in the length or in the tension of the vocal chords , or in the size of the aperture of the glottis , or in the velocity or the temperature imparted to the air in its transit through these passages .
He regards the organs of the voice as combining the properties of wind and of stringed musical instruments ; and shows , first , that for the pro ?
duction of any musical tone it is necessary that the vocal chords should previously be made mutually to approximate ; and , secondly , that the muscular forces acting on the arytenoid cartilages and vocal chords are adequate not only to resist the pressure of the column of air issuing from the lungs , but also to render either the whole or certain portions of the vocal chords susceptible of vibration when traversed by the current of respired air .
In proportion as these parts of the vocal chords , thus rendered vibratory , increase in length , the number of their vibrations , performed in a given time , diminishes , and the tone of the sound emitted becomes , in consequence , more grave ; and , conversely , the tone is more acute as the vibrating portions of the chord are shorter : these phenomenon being precisely analogous to those which take place in stringed musical instruments .
The author concludes his paper with some observations on the comparative physiology of the voice ; and on the extensive range and superior excellence of this faculty in man .
The following letter was read ; British Museum , February 26th , 1835 .
My Deah Sir , I am commanded by His Royal Highness the President of the Royal Society to request that you will state from the Chair , at the close of this evening 's meeting , how sincerely His Royal Highness regrets that , in consequence of the opinion of Dr. Maton and his other medical advisers , he is obliged , for the present , to forego the pleasure , so truly gratifying to himself , of holding the usual Soirees at Kensington Palace .
His Royal Highness , however , hopes that , by the blessing of Providence , he may yet have the satisfaction of receive ?
ing the Fellows as heretofore , before the termination of the present Session .
I am ever , my dear Sir , faithfully yours , John George Children , Sec. R. S. John William Lubbock , Esq. V. P. and Treas .
R. S.

