On the Action of Crystallized Bodies on Homogeneous Light , and on the Causes of the Deviation from Newton 's Scale in the Tints which many of them develope on Exposure to a Polarized Ray .
By J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. F.R.S. Lond. and Edin .
Read December 23 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 45 .
] When Malus published his discovery of the polarization of light , the list of doubly-refracting crystals was small ; and as the most remarkable of them possessed only one axis of double refraction , it was presumed that the law discovered by Huyghens , applicable to that one , might hold good in all ; but the discovery of crystals with two axes of double refraction has proved the fallacy of such generalization , and rendered new and extensive investigations necessary .
There are two modes of conducting observations on double refraction and polarization ; the one turns upon immediate observation of the angular deviation of the extraordinary pencil , the other depends upon the separation of a polarized ray into complementary portions by the action of a crystallized lamina .
After noticing the advantages of the latter , Mr. H. observes , that to render observations on the tints developed by polarized light available , they must be comparable to each other ; hence the importance of discovering the existence and tracing the laws of those causes which operate to disturb their regularity .
In the author 's first inquiries on the polarization of light , he was struck by the great deviation from the succession of colours in their laminwe , as observed by Newton , which many crystals exhibit when cut into plates perpendicular to one of their axes ; and finding this phenomenon unconnected with irregularities in their thickness or polish , and uniformly repeated in different and perfect specimens , he was led to inquire into their causes , especially as they appeared to form an unanswerable objection to M. Biot 's theory , which perfectly explains the tints in crystals with one axis .
In the several sections of this communication , Mr. H. first enters into a detailed description of the phenomena themselves , which are reducible to one general fact ; namely , that the axes of double refraction differ in their position in the same crystal for the different coloured rays of the spectrum , being dispersed in one plane over an angle more or less considerable according to the nature of the substance .
In many bodies , the magnitude of this dispersion of the axes is comparatively trifling ; while in some , not otherwise remarkable for a high ordinary or extraordinary dispersive power , it is enormous , and renders all computation of the tints in which it is not taken into consideration completely erroneous .
A new element is thus developed , which for the future must enter into all rigorous formulae of double refraction ; and another striking instance is presented of the inherent distinction between the different coloured molecules of light .
At the same time , says the author , by the complete explanation this principle aff-ords of all the more perplexing anomalies in the tints , the theory of oscillations stands relieved of every difficulty , and may be received as adequate to the representation of all the phenomena of the polarized rings , and entitled to rank with the fits of easy transmission and reflection as a general and simple physical law .

