228 Prof. F. D. Adams and Dr. J. T. Nicolson .
is seen to be spectral green .
But in this case the physical stimulus is complex .
On adding to the magenta a yellow glass , to cut out the violet , or using candle light , the violet reappears in the complementary spectrum , while if a blue glass is added instead , the violet vanishes , and red stands out brightly in the spectrum .
It may be thus shown that the colour which has green , for its complementary is not spectroscopically simple , and since the spectral elements of it have each a different and independent effect upon the spectrum of the complementary colour , I conclude that the green sensation has no special connection with the red , or indeed with any single colour sensation .
It would , of course , be easy to arrange the apparatus so as to use pure spectral colours for the backgrounds , but the phenomena are sufficiently distinct for ordinary purposes with coloured glasses .
A portion of the apparatus used has been paid for out of the sum of \#163 ; 10 allotted to me by the Royal Society from the Government Grant , j " An Experimental Investigation into the Flow of Marble .
" By Frank D. Adams , M.Sc .
, Ph. D. , Professor of Geology in McGill University , Montreal , and John T. Nicolson , D.Sc .
, M.Inst .
C.E. , Head of the Engineering Department , Municipal Technical School , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor H. L. Callendar , F.R.S. Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) That rocks , under the conditions to which they are subjected in certain parts of the earth/ s crust , become bent and twisted in the most complicated manner is a fact which was recognised by the earliest geologists , and it needs but a glance at any of the accurate sections of contorted regions of the earth 's crust which have been prepared in more recent years to show that there is often a transfer or " flow of j material from one place to another in the folds .
The manner in which j this contortion , with its concomitant " flowing , " has taken place is , how- j ever , a matter concerning which there has been much discussion , and a wide divergence of opinion .
Some authorities have considered it to be a purely mechanical process , while others have looked upon solution j and redeposition as playing a necessary rdle in all such movements .
^ The problem is one on which it would appear that much light might be thrown by experimental investigation .
If movements can be j induced in rocks under known conditions , with the reproduction of the structures found in deformed rocks in nature , much might be learned concerning not only the character of the movements , but also con | An Experimental Investigation into the Flow of Marble .
229 cerning the conditions which are necessary in order that the movements in question may take place .
It is generally agreed that three chief factors contribute to bringing about the conditions to which rocks are subjected in the deeper parts of the earth 's crust , where folding with concomitant flowing is most marked .
These are:\#151 ; 1 .
Great pressure .
2 .
High temperature .
3 .
Percolating waters .
With regard to the first factor , it must be noted that mere cubic compression does not produce movements of the nature of flowing , although it may produce molecular rearrangement in the rock .
A differential pressure is necessary to give movement to the mass .
As Heim has pointed out , there is reason to believe that " Umformung ohne Bruch " takes place when a rock is subjected to a pressure which , while greater in some directions than in others , in every direction exceeds the elastic limit of the rock in question .
Whether all these factors , or only certain of them , are actually necessary for the production of rock deformation is a question which also requires to be determined by experiment , for by experiment the action of each can be studied separately , as well as in combination with the others .
In the paper of which this is an abstract , a first contribution to such a study is presented , pure Carrara marble being the rock selected for study .
The investigation is now being extended to various other limestones , as well as to granites and other rocks .
In order to submit the marble to a differential pressure , under the conditions above outlined , it was sought to enclose the rock in some metal having a higher elastic limit than marble , and at the same time possessing considerable ductility .
After a long series of experiments , heavy wrought-iron tubes of special construction were adopted .
These were made , following the plan adopted in the construction of ordnance , by rolling thin strips of Low Moor iron around a bar of soft iron , and welding the strips successively to the bar , as they were rolled around it .
The cote of soft iron composing the bar was then bored out , leaving a tube of Low Moor iron , the sides being about ^ inch in thickness , and so constructed that the fibres of the iron ran around the tube instead of being parallel to its length .
These were found to answer the requirements admirably .
The following procedure was then adopted .
Columns of the marble , an inch or in some cases 0*8 inch in diameter and about 1*5 inch in length , were accurately turned and polished .
The tube was then very accurately fitted around the marble .
This was accomplished by giving a very slight taper to both the column and the interior of the tube , and so arranging it that the marble would only pass half Prof. F. D. Adams and Dr. J. T. Nicolson .
way into the tube when cold .
The tube was then expanded by heating , so as to allow the marble to pass completely into it and leave about T25 inch of the tube free at either end .
On allowing the tube to cool , a perfect contact between the iron and the marble was obtained .
In some experiments the tube was subsequently turned down , so as to be somewhat thinner immediately around the marble .
Into either end of the tube , containing the column , an accurately fitting steel plug or piston was then inserted , and by means of these the pressure was applied .
The high pressure required was obtained by means of a powerful press , especially constructed for the purpose , consisting of a double hydraulic " intensifies " the water pressure being in the first instance obtained from the city mains .
By means of this machine , pressures up to 13,000 atmospheres could be exerted on the columns having a diameter of 0*8 inch , and the pressures could be readily regulated and maintained at a constant value for months at a time , if required .
It having been ascertained that the columns of the marble 1 inch in diameter and 1J inch in height crushed at a pressure of from 11,430 to 12,026 lbs. to the square inch , the column enclosed in its wrought-iron tube , in the manner above described , was placed in the machine and the pressure applied gradually , the exterior diameter of the tube being accurately measured at frequent intervals .
No effect was noticeable until a pressure upon the marble , varying of course with the thickness of the enclosing tube , but generally about 18,000 lbs. to the square inch , was reached ; when the tube was found to slowly bulge , the bulge being symmetrical and confined to that portion of the tube surrounding the marble .
The distension was allowed to increase until the tube showed signs of rupture , when the pressure was removed and the experiment concluded .
The conditions under which the marble was submitted to pressure were four in number:\#151 ; 1 .
At the ordinary temperature in the absence of moisture .
( Cold dry crush .
) 2 .
At 300 ' C. in the absence of moisture .
( Hot dry crush .
) 3 .
At 400 ' C. in the absence of moisture .
( Hot dry crush .
) 4 .
At 300 ' C. in the presence of moisture .
( Hot wet crush .
) Eight experiments were made on marble columns at the ordinary temperature , in the absence of moisture , the rate at which the pressure was applied differing in different cases , and the consequent deformation being in some cases very slow and in others more rapid , the time occupied by the experiment being from ten minutes to sixty-four days .
The amount of deformation was not in all cases equal , as some of the tubes showed signs of rupture sooner than others .
On the completion of the experiment the tube was slit through longitudinally by means of a narrow cutter in a milling machine , along two lines An Experimental Investigation into the Flow of Marble .
231 opposite one another .
The marble within was found to be still firm and compact , and to hold the respective sides of the tube , now completely severed from one another , so firmly together that it was impossible without mechanical aids to tear them apart .
By means of a steel wedge driven in between them , however , they could be separated , but only at the cost of splitting the marble through longitudinally .
The half columns of the marble now deformed generally adhere so firmly to the tube that it is necessary to spread the latter in a vice in order to set them free .
The deformed marble , while firm and compact , differs in appearance from the original rock in possessing a dead white colour , somewhat like chalk , the glistening cleavage surfaces of the calcite being no longer visible .
The difference is well brought out in certain cases owing to the fact that a certain portion of the original marble often remains unaltered and unaffected by the pressure .
This when present has the form of two blunt cones of obtuse angle whose bases are the original ends of the columns resting against the faces of the steel plugs , while the apices extend into the mass of the deformed marble and point toward one another .
These cones , or rather parabolas of rotation , are developed , as is well known , in all cases when cubes of rock , Portland cement , or cast iron are crushed in a testing machine in the ordinary manner .
In the present experiments they seldom form any large portion of the whole mass .
In order to test the strength of the deformed rock , three of the half columns from different experiments , obtained as above described , were selected and tested in compression .
The first of these , which had been deformed very slowly , the experiment extending over sixty-four days , crushed under a load of 5350 lbs. per square inch ; the second , which had been deformed in 1| hours , crushed under a load of 4000 lbs. per square inch ; while the third , which had been quickly deformed , the experiment occupying only 10 minutes , crushed under a load of 2776 lbs. per square inch .
As mentioned above , the original marble , in columns of the dimensions possessed by these before deformation , was found to have a crushing weight of between 11,430 and 12,026 lbs. per square inch .
These figures show that , making all due allowance for the difference in shape of the specimens tested , the marble after deformation , while in some cases still possessing considerable strength , is much weaker than the original rock .
They also tend to show that when the deformation is carried on slowly the resulting rock is stronger than when the deformation is rapid .
Thin sections of the deformed marble , passing vertically through the unaltered cone and the deformed portion of the rock , were readily made , and when examined under the microscope clearly showed the nature of the movement which had taken place .
The deformed portion of the rock can be at once distinguished by its turbid appearance , differing in a marked manner from the clear transparent mosaic of the Prof. F. I ) .
Adams and Dr. J. T. Nieolson .
unaltered cone .
This turbid appearance is most marked along a series of reticulating lines running through the sections , which when highly magnified are seen to consist of lines or bands of minute calcite granules .
They are lines along which shearing has taken place .
The calcite individuals along these lines have broken down , and the fragments so produced have moved over and past one another , and remain as a compact mass after the movement ceased .
In this granulated material are enclosed great numbers of irregular fragments and shreds of calcite crystals , bent and twisted , which have been carried along in the moving mass of granulated calcite as the shearing progressed .
This structure is therefore cataclastic , and is identical with that seen in the felspars of many gneisses .
Between these lines of granulated material the marble shows movements of another sort .
Most of the calcite individuals in these positions can be seen to have been squeezed against one another and in many cases a distinct flattening of the grains has resulted , with marked strain shadows , indicating that they have been bent or twisted .
They show , moreover , a finely fibrous structure in most cases , which , when highly magnified , is seen to be due to an extremely minute polysynthetic twinning .
The chalky aspect of the deformed rock is in fact due chiefly to the destruction by this repeated twinning of the continuity of the cleavage surfaces of the calcite individuals , thus making the reflecting surfaces smaller .
By this twinning , the calcite individuals are enabled under the pressure to alter their shape somewhat , while the flattening of the grains is evidently due to movements along the gliding planes of the crystals .
In these parts , therefore , the rock presents a continuous mosaic of somewhat flattened grains .
From a study of the thin sections it seems probable that very rapid deformation tends to increase the relative abundance of the granulated material , and in this way to make the rock weaker than when the deformation is slow .
When the marble is heated to 300 ' C. in a suitably-constructed apparatus and is then subjected to deformation under conditions which otherwise are the same as before , the cataclastic structure is found to be absent and the strength of the deformed marble rises to 10,652 lbs. to the square inch , that is to say , it is nearly as strong as the original rock .
The calcite grains , which in the original rock are practically equidimensional , are now distinctly flattened , some of them being three or even four times as long as they are wide .
Some grains can be seen to have been bent around others adjacent to them , the twin lamellae curving with the twisted grain .
In others again of these twisted lamellae , the twinning only extends to a certain distance from the margin , leaving a clear untwinned portion in the centre .
The rock consists of a uniform mosaic of deformed calcite individuals .
An Experimental Investigation into the Flow of Marble .
233 When the deformation is carried out at 400 ' C. , no trace of cata-clastic structure is seen .
An experiment was then made in which the marble was deformed at 300 ' C. , but in the presence of moisture , water being forced through the rock under a pressure of 460 lbs. per square inch during the deformation , which extended over a period of fifty-four days , or nearly two months .
Under these " conditions the marble yielded in the same manner as when deformed at 300 ' C. , in the absence of moisture , that is , by movements on gliding planes and by twinning , but without cataclastic action .
The deformed marble , however , when tested in compression , was found actually to be slightly stronger than a piece of the original marble of the same shape .
The structure developed was identical with that of the marble deformed at 300 ' C. in the absence of water .
The presence of water , therefore , did not influence the character of the deformation .
It is quite possible , however , that there may have been a deposition , of infinitesimal amount , of calcium carbonate along very minute cracks or fissures , which thus helped to maintain the strength of the rock .
No signs of such deposition , however , , were visible .
By studying the marble deformed at a temperature of 300 ' C. , or better at 400 ' C. , it will be seen that structures induced in it by the movements , and the nature of the motion , are precisely the same as those observed in metals when they are deformed by impact or by compression .
In a recent paper by Messrs. Ewing and Rosenhain , " Experiments in Micro-metallurgy : Effects of Strain , '5 which appeared in these Proceedings , three photographs of the same surface of soft iron , showing the results of progressive deformation under pressure , are shown , which photographs could not be distinguished from those of thin sections of the marble described in the present paper , at corresponding stages of deformation .
In both cases the movements are caused by the constituent crystalline individuals sliding upon their gliding planes or by polysynthetic twinning .
In both cases the motion is facilitated by the application of heat .
The agreement between the two is so close that the term " flow " is just as correctly applied to the movement of the marble in compression under the conditions described , as it is to the movement which takes place in gold when a button of that metal is squeezed flat in a vice , or in iron when a billet is passed between rolls .
In order to ascertain whether the structures exhibited by the deformed marble were those possessed by the limestones and marbles of contorted districts of the earth 's crust , a series of forty-two specimens of limestones and marbles from such districts in various parts of the world were selected and carefully studied .
Of these , sixteen were found to exhibit the structures seen in the artificial]y-deformgd marble .
In these cases the movements had been identical with those developed Messrs. H. S. Hele-Shaw and A. Hay .
in the Carrara marble .
In six other cases the structures bore certain analogies to those in the deformed rock but were of doubtful origin , while in the remaining twenty the structure was different .
The following is a summary of the results arrived at:\#151 ; 1 .
By submitting limestone or marble to differential pressures exceeding the elastic limit of the rock and under the conditions described in this paper , permanent deformation can be produced .
2 .
This deformation , when carried out at ordinary temperatures , is due in part to a cataclastic structure and in part to twinning and gliding movements in the individual crystals comprising the rock .
3 .
Both of these structures are seen in contorted limestones and marbles in nature .
4 .
When the deformation is carried out at 300 ' C. , or better at 400 ' C. , the cataclastic structure is not developed , and the whole movement is due to changes in the shape of the component calcite crystals by twinning and gliding .
5 .
This latter movement is identical with that produced in metals by squeezing or hammering , a movement which in metals , as a general rule , as in marble , is facilitated by increase of temperature .
6 .
There is therefore a flow of marble just as there is a flow of metals , under suitable conditions of pressure .
7 .
The movement is also identical with that seen in glacial ice , although in the latter case the movement may not be entirely of this character .
8 .
In these experiments the presence of water was not observed to exert any influence .
9 .
It is believed , from the results of other experiments now being carried out but not yet completed , that similar movements can , to a certain extent at least , be induced in granite and other harder crystalline rocks .
" Lines of Induction in a Magnetic Field .
" By H. S. Hele-Shaw , F.B.S. , and A. Hay , B.Sc. Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) When a viscous liquid flows in a thin layer between close parallel walls , the motion takes place along stream-lines identical with those of a perfect liquid .
The course of the stream-lines may be rendered evident by injecting into the clear liquid thin bands of coloured liquid .
If the thickness of the liquid layer be varied , then there will be a decrease of resistance to the flow wherever there is an increase of

