]\gt ; Iifagnetic of the Fortieth Parallel .
some experience with both sets of instruments , I decided to accept those belQnging to the Owens College , partly because they were of more modern construction than the others , being furnished with certain ontrivances and improved modes of adjustment , suggested by Dr. Stewart 's extensive experience , which made them more convenient to use , whilst they materially added to the trustw rthiness of their indications ; and partly ( which was of reat importance ) because the instrumental constants had been comparatively recently determined and verified by Mr. Whipple .
The Owens College instruments consisted of a dip-circle by Dover , No. 6 ; a unifilar netometer by Elliott Brothers , No. 27 ; and a marine chronometer by Frodsham , No. 4066 .
I would here record my sense of obligation to Professor Stewart and the Council of Owens College for the readiness with which they placed their instruments at my disposal .
thanks are due to the Kew authorities for theloan of a couple of tripods .
I am special ] indebted to Mr. hipple and to Mr. , the ) netic Assistant at the Kew Observatory , for instruction in the use of the instruments , for advice in the conduct of the ations , and for assistance in their subsequent reduction .
In addition to the ordinary netic instruments , I provided myself with an excellent 7-inch sextant by Cas.ella , a couple of artificial horizons , some spare thermometers , an aner for altitudes up to 5,000 feet , and a hypsometric apparatus for greater elevations .
The fortunate circumstance that I was aCCQmPanied by .
Schuster has added , in no small degree , to the completeness of the work ; for that gentleman , provided with one of Piskor and Mat.tin 's small prismatic circles , and being very expert in its use , kindly offered to take charge of the observations for time and latitude throughout the journey .
It is in great measure due to this assistance that I have been able to develope the original intention into what may be considered as practically a netic s of the fortieth across the American Continent , that is to say , of the district which lies midway between the lino of observations already run along the northern and southern boundaries of the United States territory .
The observations were begun at Kew , which was adopted as a base station , and were resumed on the other side of the Atlantic , at New Haven , Connecticut .
Determinations were next made at La Junta South Colorado , the eclipse station selccted by Professor Asaph Hall , of the United States Naval Observatory ; afterwards at Manitou , at the base of Pike 's Peak ; at Denver , and at Cheyenne in Wyoming .
No further observations were made until we arrived at Salt Lake City , where , thanks to the kindness of President Taylor , we were permitted to make a complete series in an excellent spot in a garden to the side of the Iate President Young 's house .
The transit instrument , by Wurdermann , of Washinglon , belonging to the Community , which is dependent check on the indications of my instrtlments .
Mr. Schott was kind enough to allow me to sct up my instruments in his observatory , and to afford me such assistance and information as I needed .
I learned that the Coast Survey Department is gradually accumu lating data for a discussion of the magnetic history of the continent .
It has already published a map of declination for 1870 , from which it is evident that much has been donc in the determination of this particular element since the date of Sir Hidward Sabine 's " " NIemoirs more especially along the Pacific slope and in the regions to the west and south-west of the Great Salt Lake .
As yet , however , no observations hay been published relating to amy of the districts west of the Mississippi that we The geographical positions of the several stations , their altitudes above the sea-level , the ical ccter of the district in which they are situated , together with such details of the exact sites as may be necessary for their identification , are given in Table I. For the greater part of the geological information I am indebted to my colleague , Professor A. H. Green ; the rest I owe to the kindness of General Humphreys , Chief of the United States Engineers , who sup. plied me with the beautiful geological and topographical atlas accompanying Mr. Clarence King 's Report of the Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel .
I. The dip circles at my disposal were Barrow , No. 23 , and Dover , No. 6 .
The late Mr. WeIsh had enlployed the former instrument A Magnetic Survey of the Fortieth Parallel .
A Magnetic Survey of the rallet .
137 his Magnetic Survey of Scotland in 1856-57 : it had been refully examined by Dr. Balfour Stewart for error of axle and evidence of local magnetism in the circle .
( See " " British ports Aberdeen , 1859 .
) After a number of with both clrcles , I decided to mak-e use of the one belonging to Owens College .
( the Dover circle ) , principally for the reason that the method of lifting the needles in that instrument seemed to afford collcordmt results that adopted in the other .
Tho Dover provided with two needles the ordinary form , each inches ' and 0.27 inch in maximum breadth .
In order to preserve them from rust the -voyage , needles were carefully wrapped in tissue plnced in a small box filled with soda-lime .
This method of tion was found to be perfectly efficacious : at no time the journey was the htest trace of tion discernible under glass .
The mode of was that described by .
Welsh in the " " Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry 3rd edition , 1859 .
Eight readings of the vertical needle the ic prime vertical .
The circle was then turned so that the needle could the magnetic meridian .
Sets of readiugs were taken with the face of the circle first east and then west , the face of the needle towards the face of the instrument ; the needle was then reversed on its bearings and again read east and west : afterwards polarity was reversed by stroking with the bar-magnets and both series of were repcated .
The needle was raised and lowered severad times between each set of ; these were in all cases repeated , and if a difference of more than 3 ' was observed , a fresh set A comparison , de at Kew , between the Dover and tlIe instrument employed in the monthly observations ularly crried on at that observatory , aflorded he results:\mdash ; Kew , June 7 , 1878 .
Time , 9.30 Needle 1 .
Needlc 2 .
Mean .
Dover Circle . . . . . . . . . . . .
' . .
' . .
Kew Circle . . . . . .
A second set of comparisons at Kew , made after the return from America , gave the following numbers:\mdash ; Needle 1 .
Needle 2 .
Dover Circle , Oct. 2 , 1878 . .
' . .
Kew Circle . . .
Table II .
Only a single complete set of obscrvations with needle 1 could be taken at Green River .
This was just when a sudden and violent wind-storm , which filled the air with dust and ncarly upset the tripods , put an end to the work .
In the absence of the requisite data it is scarcely possible to attempt to correct the foregoing numbers for secular variation , even if that should bo necessary ; the time occupied by the survey was hard long enough to affect the results to any appreciable extcn .
We may , therefore , safely take as the epoch of all the observations .
Of the thirteen stations named in the foregoing table , New Haven , Washington , beny , and Chicago alone would seem to afford data for a discussion of the yearly rate of change in the inclination ; these four towns ( if we may consider Pittsburg and heny , which are merely separated by the Monongahela River , as practically identical ) are the only ones included in the long list given by Sir Edward Sabine for the epoch ( Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism , No. XIII , " " Philosophical Transactions 1872 .
) The difference in dip at the four stations at the two epochs may be seen from the following table:\mdash ; Station .
Dip .
Dip .
Diif .
of Epoch .
Diff. of Dip .
New Haven . .
' . . . .
years . .
Washington . . . .
, , . .
Pittsburg . . . . . .
, , . .
Chicago . . . .
72 . .
72 . .
, , . .
A Magnetic Survey of the Fortieih .
139 No certain , owever , however can be drawn from these numbers respecting the extent of the secular change in this element , , as Mr. Schott 's observations at Washington have shown , dip at that lace was on the increase at tlJe epoch , and attalned a aximum bout 1 .
Doubtless a similar iwrease occurred at Haven and Pittsburg ( Allegl]eny ) and probably a lmum was also reached at these places at about the am period .
The result for seems exceptional ; I am to regard it as due to an error in the determination of the dip at the account of the number and fairly concordant character of the observations , which were all made at about the time of the by different observers .
These are\mdash ; Loomis 1841 . . . . . . . .
Nicollet Younghusband 1842 . .
72 39 My own results agree perfectly among themselves : they taken under favourable circumstances , and so far as I could learn from Professor Colbert , the Director of the Dearborn \mdash ; there was nothiug in the spot selected for the obsel .
open space in the grounds of the University of Chicago\mdash ; which could at all interfere with the proper direction of the needle .
Whether Chicago is affected by any local disturbance I am unable to say : geological character of the district affords no evidence on this point .
In an Appendix to the " " United States Coast Report for 1870 Mr. Scbott has discussed the secular changes in the declination , dip , and intensity of the magnetic force at Wasbin tono .
The observations of inclination , which extend over a period of nearly forty years , may be represented by the expression\mdash ; , which , as the accompanying comparisons show , gives results closely accordant with the observed values .
Date .
Observed Dip .
Computed Dip .
Difference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
71.30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
70.97 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
This formula , although perfectly applicable between the intervals The horizontal componcnt of the earth 's magnetic force was determined by the method of tions and detiections in the manner described in the " " Admiralty lfanual of Scientiiic Inquiry Srd edition , 1869 .
By the aid of the deflections we obtain , or the ratio between the magnetic meant of the net employed and the horizontal component ; from the vibrabions we find the product whence either or X may be obtained .
The total force I is obtained by dividing X by the cosine of the observed dip ; an ; and from this we readily find the vertical componcnt from the formula:\mdash ; The final results are stated in British and metrical units ; one foot , one second of mean solar time , and one grain being the units of spa time , and mass in the one case ; and one millimetre , one second of time and one milligramme being the units in the other .
By dividing the latter by 10 , the corresponding in C. G. S. are also obtained .
The factor for the British to metric values is The value of at is , as determined by Mr. Whipple , at Kew .
The induction coefficient is The correction for temperature to the adopted standard temperature , is .
The correction for error of graduation of the brass deflecbion bar at 1 foot is foot and at foot foot .
A Jfagnetic of the Fortieth Par.allel .
The times of vibration given in the table are , in all cases , obtained from the means of 14 observations of the time required by the to make 100 vibrations : no col.rection has been applied for .seml-arc of vibration at the commencement of the obscrvat ons was always below 50 ' ; at two stations only , , at Salt Lake City and at Council Bluffs\mdash ; where the rate of the chrollometer exceeded 3 seconds , was it necessary to apply the correction The observed time of vibration has been also du17 corrected for the torsion-force of he suspending thread .
The angular value of 1 division of the scale of the vibration magnet is 2 ' : that of the deflection apparatus is The mean value of in the formula was Tables III and IIIA contain the details of the ions .
Table III.\mdash ; Deflection Observations .
\ldquo ; tances }ration Observations .
ratu .
The final results of the intensity observations are contained in Table IIIB .
A Magnetic of the Fortieth Parallel .
The following horizontal force in absolute measure were made at Kew with the Owens College uniiilar before and after the American observations .
June 7 , 1878.\mdash ; Deflection Observations .
G. M. T. Distance of centre Temp. Observed of magnets .
deflection .
Vibration Observations .
G. M. T. Temp. Timc of the vibration . .
sec. October 2 : 1878.\mdash ; Deflection Observations .
G. Distance of centre Temp. defiectionObserved .
of magnets . . .
1.3 . .
64.7 . .
Vibration Observations .
G. M. T. Temp. Time of the vibration . .
sec. 0.33458 Mean .
Kew , June 7 , 1878 .
Oct. 2 , 1878 .
results of these observations compared with those of the unifilar made at about the same period are as follows:\mdash ; Horizontal force .
Diff. Kew Unifilar . . . . .
May 27 , 1878 .
Owens College Unifilar Sept. 7 , , , Kew Unifilar . . . .
Sept. 24 , 1878 .
Owens College Unifilar . .
Oct. 2 , , , Combining these resuIts with the respective values for the inclina .
tion obtained by the several instruments , we have the ] wing in dependent determinations of the magnetic intensity , in leisure , at Kew:\mdash ; Horizontal .
Vertical .
Total .
Kew Instruments . .
May , 1878 .
Owens College Instruments Junc , , Kew Instruments . .
Sept. , , Owens College Instruments Oct. , , Table shows the values in British of the total force at such of the above stations as aro mentioned in Sir Edward Sabine 's ' ' Contributions to Terrestrial Magnctism No. XIII ( ' ' Philosophical Transactions , 1872 at the two epochs and Table 1842 .
5 .
1878.7 .
Diff. Pittsburg . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Haven . . . . . . . . . .
Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . .
Washington . . . . . . . . . .
According to Mr. Schott , the horizontal force at Washington has been steady ] increasing since .
From observations made since , he finds that the value of this element may be represented by the formula A qnetic Sof the Fortieth Parallel .
For the present epoch the calculated value is .
My determinations gave 4.3608 , in close accordance with Mr. Schott 's observavation made on June 15 , 1878 , of 4366 .
The diflerence between the observed and computed values affords furbher evidence of the fact pointed out by Mr. Schott , that the secular changes in the neighbourhood of Washington are of a mixed progressive , and periodic character .
The divergences exhibited both in this case and in that of the dip , further show how very unsafe it is to employ numerical formulae of this kind beyond the limits of the time within which the observations upon which are based aracomprised .
Decli ? ?
at , The unifilar magnetometer was provided with a mirror and horizontal telescope in accordance with the plan first proposed by Dr. Lloyd in the " " Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\ldquo ; for 1858 ; hence the observatiuns could be carried out in the manner described by Mr. Welsh in the " " Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry As a rule , six readings of the position of the fnet were taken ; of these were with the scale erect and three with the scale inverted : at Cheyenne , however , to lack of timo , only four observations were possible .
Care was always taken that the transit-mirror was in adjustment before commencing the observations .
The operation of adjustment for collimation-error was greatly facilitated by a neat contrivance which Dr. Balfour Stewart had caused to be introduced in the origi- nal construction of the instrument .
In order to eliminate any error which might arise from the plane of the mirror not being parallel to its axis , the observations were always made first with the mirror in its 1lormal position and then after reversal on its bearings .
Care , too , was always taken to remove , as far as practicable , all torsion from the suspending thread .
When time permitted , the magnet was replaced by a torsion-plummet of equal weight , the position of which noted after an interval of an hour or so , a suitable correction being applied to the original observation if it were found that any torsion still remained in the thread .
As the correct determination of the sun 's azimuth was mainly dependent upon an accurate knowledge of local time , eve17 opportunity was taken to ascertain the errors and rates of the chronometers employed .
In order to guard against the possible accidents of travel over a country so rough and difficuIt as that of many parts of Western America , I provided myself with three of these instruments .
That lent to me by Dr. Stewart was a large-sized marine cbronometer , by rodsham , No. 4,066 ; in addition , I hired a pocket instrument from the same , No. 5,674 , which had behaved well as a " " hack\ldquo ; cbronometer for some months previously : this was cftrried Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
horizontally in its case and guard-box .
For the third instrument indebted to Mr. George Salt , of Saltaire , who is well-known his skill and knowledge ; it was a remarkably well-fiuished instrument by Kuhlberg , No. 2,918 , and was specially compensated for fluctuations of temperature .
The Owens College instrumen however , went so throughout the entire journey that I used it .
exclusively , relying on the others mainly for comparisons .
At several of the stations , , at Ogden , , Allegheny , and Washingto I was able , thanks to the Directors of the observatories at those places , to make comparisons with standard instruments ; at La Junta the errors and rates were furnisl ) to me by Professor Hall ; on other occasions I obtained the time from Dr. Schuster 's observations .
Table A Survey of the Fortieth Parallel .
Table shows the error and rabe of chronometer rodsham 4066 , during the course of the journey .
Comparative observations were made at Kew before and after the 1 survey the unifilar employed in the ' are monthly determitions at that observatory and the Owens College itlstruments , with the following resuIts:\mdash ; Kew Declinometer . . . .
Owens College Declinometer . .
Kew Declinometer . . . .
, Owens College Declinomefer . .
May29 , 1878 .
' W. 30 , , , 191744 June 7 , , , , , , 19 12 10 26 , 1913 Oct. 3 , , , 191401 The observations for the dekrmination of the astronomical meridian at the several stations are given in ) Table * Observatory fixed marks .
The corresponding azimuthal readings of are Colltained iu Table VIA .
I have not attempted to correct results for diurnal range .
Accurate observations of daily have been made at Philadelphia , Washington , and Key West in Florida , and on the assumption that the ran ge of the daily variation is inversely proportional to the horizontal force , the data derived from these observations may perhaps be considered as fairly applicable to any place in the United States .
But such corrections are at best very unsatisfactory , as the epochs of the extreme positions are subject to very great fluctuations on account of disturbances : these are usually most prevalent at about the time at which my observations were made , , August and September .
The magnet , however , was always quiet the time of observation ; hence the correction due to diurnal would seldom exceed 3 ' or 4 ' .
Observations of declination have been made in the trict of Columbia , in which Washington is situated , from as far back as 1792 .
These have been collected and discussed by Mr. Schott in the memoir above referred to , and represented by by the formula\mdash ; ( I. ) , which is the number of years since 1830 , and the declination , when west , expressed in degrees .
The annual variation was given by the formula\mdash ; ( II .
) .
The preceding formula gives the value of the declination for 1870 as , and for 1880 as observed declination , however , already considerably exceeds the latter value .
Mr. Schott informs me that an observation on June 15 , 1878 , gave ; my gnetic Survey of the th determination on September 8 , 1878 , was ( uncoYrected for range ) .
In a later publication ' On the Secular of the Magnetic Declination in the United States and other parts of North America\ldquo ; ( United States Coast Survey Report for 1874 , Appendix No. 8 ) , Mr. Schott adopts the formula , where is the number of years and fraction of a year since 1850 ; but this expression also affords lower values than those actually observed .
The value for 1880 , for example , is given as , and as .
Mr. Schott has also discussed the various observations made at New Haven , Connecticut , since 1761 , and has represented them by the expression , where has the same signification as in the last formula .
The annual change is at present about .
This would give for value , which agrees very closely with that actually observed .
Sir Edward Snbine 's collections afford the ving data for further comparison : \mdash ; Diff. of Yearly Date .
Declination .
Date .
Declination .
epoch .
Change .
Year Salt Lake City . .
1850 Pittsburg . .
W. , , 2 21 W. . .
1845:5 .
, , 2 21 .
; At Salt Lake City I was informed by Mr. Orson Pratt , who led the first band of Mormons into Utah , that he had the magnetic declination on what is now the site of the Mormon oernacle , and was so good as to afford me the following extract from his journal:\mdash ; " " July 30 , 1847 .
I took several observations during the day of the sun 's azimuths and altitudes , and by means of seven calculations I ascertained the variation of the netic needle to be E. Instruments , sextant and azimuth compass.\ldquo ; In concluding , I wisb to tender my to the various officials connected with the public service in America with whom I came in contact , for the prompt and courteous manner with which all our requirements to the magnetic work were met .
To eneral Smith , at Fort Lyon , in Colorado , we were indebted for the loan of a tent which was placed at our disposal during the whole of Rear-Admiral Rodgers , the Director of the United States Naval Observatory at Washington , furnished us with maps and letters , procured us special facilities from certain of the railroad companies , and otherwise showed his interest in the work .
The magnetic dip observed at Washington between 1839 and 1879 can be represented by the formula\mdash ; which will leave no greater differences than those given by the old formula .
( Report of ) The magnetic horizontal intensity observed between 1842 and 1879 is represented by A lUagnetic Survey of the Fortieth Parallel .
151 which will leave differences of about the same character as those given by the old formula .
The very nature of these functions precludes them from answering lfor any length of time , and as soon as the case becomes ripe , I shall substitute harmonic functions .
The following is an improved formula for the declination at shington , prepared for a new edition of the paper in the 1874 Report : , it represents the observations between 1792 and 1879 ; These observations are difficult to manage on account of considerable local deflection in this vicinity produced by iron -ore which in many places crops out to the surface .
Our observations compare as follows : In latitude : longitude Decline .
Dip .
Hor. Inten .
June 14 , 15 , 17 .
C. A. Schott . . . .
Sept. 8 , 1878 .
T. E. Thorpe . .
343 . . . .
Yours very truly , CHAS .
A. Dr. T. E. THORPE , Yorkshirs College , Leeds , England .

