]\gt ; On a new Form of ential Equation .
[ Feb. 22 , body , it approaches .
While it conforms to the Spionidae in the structure of its body-wall istles , it diffe , in regard to the absence of the nchiae ; and further , the short , pinnate and allteriol .
organs of Prionospio to be the nearest to its elongated tentacles .
In the mechanism of its proboscis and in the structure of its snout and circulatory , again , itpresents tures s 1II .
On a ncw of By JOHN CASEY , , Professor of matics in the Catholic Univcrsity of Ireland .
eccived January If a line mnke an intelcept on the of , and angle ith it on the negntive sidc , the of this line be The tities and will determine tho position of the line , and mltY therefore be called its coordinntes ; hence as , will be the tangential tion o curve which is the elope of the line .
The tion forms the subject of this papol .
It is lemltrkable for the facility with which it CiLn be transformed iuto the ordinary tion , as well ils into the polar and intrinsic equation of a curve .
In great ariet y of it tcves , implc form , results which , by other methods , cullbcrso]nc or llctrly imprncticable .
I hnve illustrated it throughout by Ilumcrons c many of } hich are of The following is an outline of the contenfs of the npel ' :\mdash ; .
shows to transform and polal cquations into rhc .
In the course of the vestigation a of curves of the class , which to any of the j- , , arc introduced , their lcading properties Chapters II .
, III .
with the trnllsformntion of the intrinsic equation , vice ) some allied subjects .
In these apters the holc theory of evolutes , involutcs , , \amp ; c. fully considered .
-oted to the ation of the ties of hypocycloids by their .
A large number propel.ties of these be as specimens:\mdash ; lst .
If three tangents cycloid bc , the en ) elope of the tangent at its is a .
If to a cycloid a nngle , the locus of the centre of the circle described bout he nglo formed by the tbcir chord of contnct { line . .
contnius of ve p ls .
1877 .
] Prof. A. Caylcy the Quartic .
is theorem on tlus of the ] ) ve pedal of a quartic is the iuversc of its ) if tbc centre one of its cles osion be taken as origin .
Chnpter .
is the last .
It contains the theol.y of curves from their tangential insic cquation .
Thus , ) bo { he , its is in polar equalions vnin , trinsic ction polnr ( its is This nptcr contnins theol.v of ] ] is a of of of of in , 111( nchod call nded to , so the is , is soll cd for { hc firbt lime .
is the addilion of a unex by Cayley .
IV .
Addition on the lartic By A. YLEY , Professor of cccived J I , nscy ( to { hc he il addilio ] ] , co ts 011 hc of I of tion of of , I3 , , , ( L ) , to ' sc AB( 1 ) , il ; 111 il $ , 11 , nnd ) tl I II ;

