On the Generation of a Luminous Glow an Exhausted Receiver moving near an Electrostatic , and the Action of a Magnetic Field on the Glow so produced .
By Frederick John Jervis-Smith , M.A. Oxon , F.E.S. , University Lecturer in Practical Mechanics and Experimental Physics , Oxford .
( Received January 20 , \#151 ; Read January 30 , 1908 .
) 1 .
In 1896* I found that bulbs exhausted as a Crookes radiometer , when bombarded by a discharge from a Tesla inductor , produced X-rays , and X-ray photographs of the hand were then made , using only exhausted bulbs having no terminals .
The bulbs had the following dimensions : 5 cm .
diameter , stem 12 cm .
long , 0'4 cm .
diameter .
I had from time to time noticed that when any of the exhausted bulbs were rubbed on the palm of the hand , they became luminous for a brief period while they were being rubbed .
In December , 1907 , I returned to the subject , using these same exhausted bulbs in connection with certain apparatus in which plates of sulphur were employed as insulators .
Happening to move an exhausted bulb near a sulphur plate in the dark , I noticed that it glowed for an instant .
It then became evident that an exhausted vessel , moving in an electrostatic field , itself became electrified and consequently glowed .
2 .
An exhausted bulb was mounted by its stem in a hollow mandrel running in a bearing ; it was rotated by means of a pulley , driven by a cord connecting it to a small motor .
Under the bulb a plate of sulphur was placed in the horizontal plane at distances varying between 1 cm .
and 13 cm .
The glow was apparent at 13 cm .
3 .
The bulb was rotated about 20 times per second .
The sulphur was rubbed on the hand before being placed below the bulb .
When the bulb was rotated it became instantly filled with a luminous glow , with a patch of greenish light brighter than the rest of the glow situated about 90 ' from the vertical .
When rotation was reversed , the patch appeared on the opposite side of the bulb , also about 90 ' from the vertical .
4 .
In the next experiment the statically charged body placed under the rotating bulb consisted of a brass disc supported on an insulated stem .
The disc was connected to an electroscope , and charged to 1200 volts .
The bulb was rotated as before ; the charged disc remained charged during the * ' Nature , ' vol. 54 , p. 594 .
On a Luminous Glow in an Exhausted Receiver , etc. 213 t experiment , which lasted about six minutes , and showed no signs of being discharged .
5 .
An electrostatic field of opposite sign was maintained on two opposite sides of the bulb ; the glow throughout the bulb was considerably increased , but when two similarly charged discs were placed at equal distances on the opposite sides of the bulb , tl , ie glow ceased , and when one was charged to a higher potential than the other the glow again appeared , apparently due to the difference of charge of the two discs .
6 .
Touching the rotating bulb lightly with a finger did not affect the appearance of the glow in any perceptible way .
7 .
The bulb was rotated in the electrostatic field due to the disc of sulphur which had been rubbed on the hand , placed above the bulb in the horizontal plane , and below the bulb an insulated metal disc was placed connected to the electroscope ; no transfer of electricity to the disc was .
indicated .
8 .
A disc of sulphur ( 10 cm .
diameter ) was mounted on a face plate of wood rotated by a mandrel ( running in ball bearings ) as in a lathe ; the disc of sulphur was rubbed so as to establish an electrostatic field .
When it was rotated near an exhausted bulb or exhausted tube , no glow was produced .
9 .
The sulphur disc , while rotating if used as the inductor of an electro-phorus , acted in exactly the same manner as if at rest .
The disc was rotated from one revolution per second up to 20 revolutions per second .
10 .
Five bulbs were prepared and rotated in an electrostatic field of constant strength .
Some were exhausted to the same condition of vacuum as the radiometer of Crookes ; some to the condition of a Rontgen X-ray tube .
The glow in those exhausted to the Rontgen vacuum was far brighter than that in those not so exhausted .
11 .
The electroscope used to measure the P.D. of the charges was designed by Professor Townsend , F.R.S. , of Oxford ; it is calibrated so that each division of the scale indicates 100 volts .
It is capable of keeping its charge for many days.* 12 .
The experiments show that when an exhausted glass vessel is rotated in an electrostatic field an electrical glow is created , the intensity of which varies in some way with the velocity of rotation , while the position of maximum glow changes its position with the direction of rotation .
13 .
Since the bulbs were exhausted by means of a mercury pump ( used by the manufacturer of Rontgen tubes ) , there may possibly be a very thin coating of mercury on the inner wall of the bulbs .
An exceedingly minute * ' Nature , ' vol. 77 , p. 149 , " Sulphur as an Insulator , " by F. J. J.-S .
214 Bev .
F. J. Jervis-Smith .
On Generation of a [ Jan. 20 , coating of mercury on vessels exhausted by the mercury pump has recently been suggested as the cause of the change of conductivity of selenium when placed in a vessel exhausted by a mercury pump.* The Action of a Magnetic Field on the Radiant Glow in an Exhausted Vessel rotated in an Electrostatic Field .
Considering the conditions subject to which the glow is generated it seemed probable that it would be unidirectional in its nature , and would therefore be acted on by a magnetic field .
This was found to be the case .
In preliminary experiments on this point a permanent magnet was employed , but , for convenience of reversal of the poles , it was replaced by an electromagnet taken from a Morse instrument by Siemens and Halske .
The poles of the electromagnet were placed within 0'5 cm .
of the bulb , in several different positions .
The conditions of the experiment were varied in six ways :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The static charge was either positive or negative .
( 2 ) The rotation of the bulb was either in the clock-hands sense or the reverse .
( 3 ) The magnetic pole , in different experiments , was north or south .
Both a horseshoe electromagnet and a long cylindrical electromagnet were used in the different experiments : the current of electricity used to energise the electromagnet was supplied from accumulators , a reversing key being placed in the circuit .
Effect of two magnetic poles on the glow .
( Fig. 1 .
) D , disc giving the electrostatic field , charged inductively by means of a disc of sulphur rubbed on the dry hand .
Rotation of the bulb , clock-hands sense , to an eye at A. Revolutions 20 per second .
No current on electromagnet .
A greenish-blue glow filled the bulb .
Electromagnet on , the glow took the form of an equatorial bright band , brightest between the poles of the electromagnet , where its shape was modified as shown .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Bulb exposed to south pole .
Charge on D as in Fig. 1 .
Rotation , clock-hands sense .
The glow filled a hemisphere of the bulb P with an equatorial band a little more brilliant than the rest of the hemisphere .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Bulb exposed to south pole .
Rotation contrary to clock-hands .
The glow filled a hemisphere of the bulb Q with equatorial band a little more brilliant than the rest of the hemisphere .
If , while the charge on D and the rotation of the bulb are kept the same , * 'Nature , ' vol. 77 , p. 222 .
Luminous Glow in an Exhausted , etc. the magnetic pole is changed , the glow phenomenon is reversed .
Also when the charge on D and the magnetic pole are kept the same , but the sense of rotation is reversed , the glow phenomenon is reversed .
216 Rev. F. J. Jervis-Smith .
On Generation of a [ Jan. 20 , 14 .
The experiments in which one pole of the horseshoe magnet was employed were all repeated with an electromagnet of cylindrical form , so that only one pole was near the bulb .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; The electrostatic field was maintained by a brass disc D charged by induction from rubbed sulphur .
The views of the apparatus and phenomena are as seen by an eye above looking vertically down on them .
The axis of the electromagnet was placed in the horizontal plane through the centre of the bulb , at 45 ' from the axis of rotation of the bulb .
Glow in hemisphere G. Reversal of the magnetic pole deflected the glow to the opposite hemisphere .
Rotation , clock-hands sense .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; The axis of the electromagnet was in the axis of rotation of the bulb .
Magnetic pole south .
Glow G in hemisphere nearest to the disc .
This was exactly reversed when the north pole was used .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; E , a sulphur disc which had been rubbed , was used to maintain the electrostatic field .
Glow at G , away from sulphur disc .
Magnet pole south .
The glow illuminated the opposite hemisphere when the north pole was presented to the bulb .
In each case the glow is most brilliant in a region the mid-point of which is about 90 ' from the axis of the electromagnet .
Shifting the pole of the electromagnet shifts the equatorial plane separating the dark and glow-filled hemispheres .
15 .
A summary of the relationship which exists between the direction of rotation of the bulb , the charge of the inductor D , and the name of the magnetic pole , may be stated thus .
When the rotation of the bulb is in the clock-hands sense , to an eye looking along XO , the charge on the inductor positive , the magnet pole south , the deflection of the glow is to the right of the south pole as shown in fig. 7 .
B , bulb with axis of stem lying in OX , magnet pole south , Pp direction of deflection of glow matter .
If any one of the conditions , namely , sense of rotation , sign of charge on the inductor or magnet pole , be reversed , while the other two remain unchanged , the deflection of the glow is reversed .
16 .
Experiments have been made and are now being continued with a view to discover whether the glow will affect a photographic plate .
When placed in a light-tight case , only very slight traces of this action have as yet been found by me .
17 .
In order that the phenomena might be seen under any climatic conditions , the whole of the inductional apparatus was enclosed in a box having a glass lid , fitted with an air-tight rubber joint , the interior being kept dry with sulphuric acid .
The discs were charged from the outside of the box by means of conductors 1908 .
] Luminous Glow in an Exhausted , etc. led into it through sulphur plugs .
The phenomena could then be observed for any required time .
18 .
Many forms of exhausted vessels were employed ; of these an exhausted ring ( 10 cm .
diameter , made from tube having an internal bore of 1 cm .
) Y revolving about a diameter , in an electrostatic field , gives a good and beautiful glow .
19 .
In conclusion , I wish to offer my best thanks to the President of the Royal Society for comments on the phenomena described in this paper .
The diagrams for the paper were prepared by Mr. E. J. Jervis-Smith , RF .
A. , who has assisted me in carrying out the experiments .

