]\gt ; ; 34 Prof. C. Niven .
On Method of [ Dec. 5 , On a Method of Finding the onductivity for Heat .
By Professor C. NIVEN , ( Received December 5 , 1904 , \mdash ; Read January 26 , 1905 .
) INTRODUCTION .
This paper contains an account of a method for finding the conductivity for heat , especially in bad conductors .
The substance is supposed given in the form of a cylinder , or rather of two half-cylinders pressed together and heated by a current passing through a wire along the axis .
When the steady state has been reached , the conductivity is given in terms of the difference of temperatures at known distances from the axis , and the heat supplied by the wire .
The latter can be found when we know the current passing through it and the difference of potential at its ends .
The first part of the paper contains a detailed account of the methods employed for finding the difference of temperature , and a description of the apparatus used .
The results of some experiments made with it are also given , and compared with those found by other observers .
The second part of the paper contains a solution of the mathematical problem of the diffusion of heat in an infinite solid from a line at which it is supplied at a constant rate , and the solution of some other allied questions .
One result of the investigation suggests a method of finding the diffusivity directly , when the substance is of sufficiently great extent .
PART I. 1 .
If heat be supplied uniformly and continuously to a solid within a given space at the rate of units per second , and if a surface be drawn round this space , then when the steady state has been attained and the temperature at each point is constant in time , the integral being taken over the closed surface , being the conductivity , and the normal variation of outwards .
In particular , if the solid be in the form of a circular cylinder , and the heat supplied by an electric current passing through a uniform straight wire coinciding with its axis , the equation takes the form the enclosing surface being a coaxial cylinder , and the heat supplied per centimetre per second .
1904 .
] Finding the Conductivity for Heat .
If we rate this equation , we find for the difference of temperatures at distances , from the axis , the expression Upon this equation we may base a method of finding , since the heat evolved the wire per unit length is readily found when we know the current through it and its resistance ; or what comes to the same , the current and the di{ference of potentials in volts ) between two points at a known distance apart .
These data be by , say , a Weston millivoltmeter provided with suitable shunts and resistances , and may be obtained with considerable accuracy if the instrument be properly calibrated .
Reducing electrical to heat units the value of the conductivity is ooiven by bein the length of the wire , at the ends of which the potentials are taken .
The heating wires used were of platinoid .
At first wires of No. 40 .
were used .
currents of about one ampere , but these were afterwards replaced by thicker wires of No. 34 , as they were found to too great a heating effect , and caused the wood in which they were placed to shrink at the centre , and besides , in addition , were liable to snap when drawn tight .
The thicker wires gave more satisfactory results .
2 .
The temperatures , or rather , were ulensured either by the change of resistance of platinum wires embedded in the body parallel to the axis , or by thermo-electric junctions formed by soldering togethel thin iron and German silver wires placed in the same positions as the platinunl wires .
These fine wires were stretched round two brass pins so as to be at distances about 1 cm .
and 3 cm .
from the heating wire .
When solids were tested they were made in the form of two half , ylinders , one of which was placed in a semi-cylindrical wooden shell , which was moved up till the two wires rested on its flat face .
If platinum vires vere used their resistances were now compared .
The current is then passed the wire , which is drawn tight round a brass pin and fixed to lie parallel to the other two wires .
The second half cylinder and the other semi-cylin drical wooden shell vere then placed upon it and squeezed firmly down .
If this operation be carefully performed it is possible to fix the wires in their positions , though the thin platinum wires gaye some trouble owing to their great fragility .
Prof. C. Niven .
On Method of [ Dec. 5 , When the apparatus is used for testing the conductivity of powders , the lower shell is first filled and the wires placed in position on the upper SUl.face of the substance , the current turned on and the he ting wire drawn tight .
The upper shell is now laid above the first , and lilled through a slot made along the top , the powder being distributed to fill it completely .
The apparatus is shown generally in fig. 1 .
is a horizontal section FIG. 2 .
in the plane of junction of the two half cylinders ; AA , BB are the two thermometric wires , and the , wire fixed to brass plates .
The length of the cylinders used was 15 cm .
, and the diameter 9 cm .
The heating wire had a length of 25 cm .
in the later experiments .
3 .
mometric AnyeJnents .
When the difference of temperatures 1904 .
] inding the Conductivity for Heat .
was measured by the change of resistance of platinum , a piece of platinum wire was coated with copper and the whole drawn out till the platinum had a thickness of about mm. , that of the copper being about mm. Any change of resistance was thus appreciably due to the platinum .
Two lengths from the same piece were taken , laid ether , and being connected with soft wax , were bared as nearly as possible to the same extent of about 3 to4 cm .
, so that their resistances vere very nearly equal .
If be the resistance of the inner one , that of the outer before heating , let when compared by the Wheatstone 's Bridge method , , say , and a number not far from 1000 .
After heating , and when the temperature has become steady , becomes where is the temperature coefficient of the resistance of platinum , and is the temperature of the room .
Suppose now that .
Then If the total changes of resistance are only comparatively small fractions of the original resistance , we have Of course , if is a considerable fraction , the resistances must be found separately .
In the experiments actually made , amounted to about at most , and , so that the assumption here made is sufficiently accurate .
( 2 ) So much difficulty was experienced in use of these fine platinum wires , especially in testing loose powders such as sand or mould , that they were ultimately given up , and the difference of temperatures found by the hermo-electric junctions already described .
The arrangement used was a wile of German silver of mm. diameter between two iron wires of the same diameter , stretched parallel to the axis of the cylinder so that the two wires , and , therefore , the junctions , were at the distances apart previously chosen , that is to say , 1 cm .
and 3 cm .
from the heating wire .
As the resistance of the galvanometer employed was about 800 ohms , the deflection Prof. C. Niven .
On Method of [ Dec. 5 , was sensibly proportional to the difference of temperature .
By independent experiments one scale division represented C. 4 .
With regard to the choice of the distances from the central wire , it is clear that these should not be taken too nearly equal ; for , unless be a moderate multiple of , any error in the measurement of one of them , say will introduce a large error in Let for instance , , nearly .
Thus , if cm .
, cm .
, and mm. , so that the error is about 12 per cent. of the whole .
By taking the error lies between 4 and 5 per cent. As between the two pairs of distances 1 , 6 and 2 , 6 cm .
, we should rather choose the latter , as is not quite 2 , and an error of mm. in 2 cm .
is only half as important as the same error in 1 cm .
In the present form of the apparatus I have therefore taken cm .
, cm .
; and in a larger model , cm .
, cm .
5 .
It is desirable to know how long an experiment need be continued to get a fair approximation to the steady state .
For this purpose it is necessary to know how the temperatul.e rises at any point .
In the second part of this paper the solution is iven of the problem of the diffusion of heat in an infinite cylinder from a steady source at the axis .
Taking the result as a guide for the present case , we have where , and is the distance from the axis and the diffusivity .
Assuming , provisionally , that is large enough to make small , we may expand , and retain only the first two terms .
Thus .
The first term of the expression gives the temperature of the steady .
and if the temperature be 5 per below its final value , If cm .
, 1904 .
] Finding the Conductivity for Heat .
In the case of sand , for which is ( Everett 's 'Units and Physical Constants ' ) , or about hours .
To get within 1 per cent. , we should have to continue the for about hours .
It may , perhaps , be worth that the diffusivity may be found directly the expression for ooiven in the second part of the paper and quoted above ; for which is a maximum when cm .
, the time required is only about one-eighth of that previOusly necessary .
6 .
As an illustration of the results 1}hich the method gives , I add a list of some tarlces whose conductivities have been found by it .
In the case of the woods , the flow of heat is across the fibres .
In the second column the letter indicates that the diflerence of temperatures was found by the of resistance of the platinum wires , that it was found by thermo-electric junctions .
The distances of the thermometric wires from the central wires are given in the third and fourth columns ; in the earlier expel.iments , was taken nearly , while iu the later ones is about 3 .
The llumbers ag1ee fairly well , , for the reasons given above , I think the latter ratio preferable .
The fifth column shows the size of the platinoid wire used as the source of heat , and the sixth the current passing through it .
Some determinations by other observers are added ; these are taken from Everett 's ' Units and Physical Constants .
' I wish to express my indebtedness to Mr. William Mitchell , M.A. , by mauy of these determinations were made , for this and other assistance he has riven me in the course of the work .
Prof. C. Niven .
On Method of [ Dec. 5 , 1904 .
] Finding the Conductivity for Heat .
PART Il In connection with the foregoing method , based on the steady state , it seemed desirable to know the mode in which this state is attained at any time after the heating is begun .
As a preliminary , the problem of the heating of a rod by heat supplied uniformly in the middle , was first attacked in Fourier 's way by treating it as the limit of a ring of infinite radius .
The results , though complicated in form , may be worth recording , as the conditions approximate to those actually met with when one end of a metal rod is put into a hot flame .
The case of a small spherical cavity is added , and may be taken as an illustration of the way in which the heat given out by a small morsel of radium is propagated through an infinite solid .
In all the questions treated in this part the body is supposed infinite in the directions in which the flow of heat is considered , the ring and thin spherical shell excepted . .
Thin Circular Ring with Surface Impermeable to Heat.\mdash ; Consider first the case of a uniform thin circular ring heated at one spot .
Let conductivity , specific heat per unit volume , -section of ring , mean radius , arc of ring measured from the heated spot , angle subtended by at the centre , so that heat supplied at the spot per second .
general equation of conduction is . .
( 1 ) , being the temperature .
If the heat has been supplied for a long time , the temperature will be sensibly uniform throughout and equal to If we include the etfect of co1lduction we may satisfy Equation by adding to this a term of the form , where and the other constants are undetermined .
To complete the general solution we have to add terms of the form .
( 2 ) , where , .
3 Prof. C. Niven .
On Method of [ Dec. 5 , We have also to satisfy the conditions that the flow of heat outwards at the origin is constantly equal to on either side , that is , corresponding to All these conditions are satisfied by the expression . .
It will be noted that the last terms give no flow at , on either side , nor at the diametrically opposite point , as ought , from symmetry to be the case .
The constants are determined in the usual way by taking , when , all over the ring .
Thus ; And , finally , ' ( 5 ) .
CASE 2 .
Rod Heated the lfiddle.\mdash ; By putting , and we pass , in Fourier 's way , to the case of an infinite straight rod .
The second term , which is infinite , may be treated thus\mdash ; If we integrate the last term by parts , dropping the factor and include this term , we have and the part outside the sign now vanishes at both limits .
If we put ' 1904 .
] Finding C'onductivity for Heat .
and thus finally ( 6 ) .
CASE 3 .
with Radiating Su .\mdash ; If be the perimeter of a cross section , and the constant of radiation , the equation of the flow of heat along the ring is ( 7 ) .
If the flow of heat from the source were continued for a long time , the final temperature , neglecting conduction , would be iven by .
Including conduction , it is easy to see that the general Equation ( 7 ) is satisfied by an expression of the form ( 8 ) , where . .
( 9 ) .
The condition that the flow at either side of the origin should be equal to requires that -B . ?
when everywhere .
Thus Determining the constants in the usual way , Thus , finally , ( 10 ) .
Prof C. Niven .
On a Method of [ Dec. 5 , CASE 4 .
InJinite Radiating \mdash ; To pass to this case , pUlt c If then , and .
( 11 ) .
This Talo may be expressed in terms of two integrals of the errorfunction type , but it is unnecessary to the reduction here .
CASE 5 .
Thin Spherical Shdt.\mdash ; The case of an infinite cylinder heated from a wire passing along its axis is the same as the two-dimensional problem of a plate heated at a point .
To treat this , consider first the case of a thin spherical shell , heated steadily from a small circular hole , and take the boundary of the shell to be impermeable to heat .
The general equation of the flow along the shell is . .
( 12 ) , being the radius of the shell , , angular distance from hole .
If be its thickness , the final state , after a long time , is given by To satisfy Equation ( 12 ) generally , including this term , we require a term such that whence , where And the complete value of will be where being the usual zonal harmonic of degree The flow across any small circle is The part of this depending on vanishes when or ; and , if , the part derived from be equal to H. Thus , or .
1904 .
] Finding the Conductivity for The complete expression for is therefore . .
( 13 ) .
To determine we have , when Now and Hence The first term on the left hand vanishes except when .
On the right hand , between the limits ; and which vanishes both when and when .
Thus The constant term is given from , or .
Thus the complete expression for is ( 14 ) where When everywhere , and this requires that an expression which may be readily verified from the expression Prof C. Niven .
On JIethod of [ Dec. 5 , 6.\mdash ; Infinite Plane Plate .
This case , which also includes that of an infinite cylinder heated along its axis , may be deduced from the one by putting .
being the distance of any point from the centre , and by ; also , and the expression for is ( ) ( 15 ) , where stands for the heat supplied per unit in unit time , and The which itself is infinite , is coupled with an infinite term , the difference between the two being the finite part on which the solution depends .
same point came up in the deduction of the solution for the infinite rod from that of the ring , but in that case it was possible to assign a finite form for the difference .
The form of the .
in ( 15 ) ests , as will be seen later , another way of obtaining the solution , but it is possible to deduce from it a form of solution satisfying all the conditions of the problem .
For if we differentiate the above expression with regard to the time , we have ; or , putting we have It is easy to verify by direct differentiation that and therefore To find the constant , we observe that wheu ; so that Thus ' 1904 .
] Finding the Conductivity for But , and therefore Thus .
( 16 ) .
Another Solution of this Case.\mdash ; The expression just given for originally obtained by , different method , which may be now given .
The integral contained in the Equation ( 15 ) , may be written , using the same symbol , as above , in the form which shows that is of the form .
But the general equation of the flow of heat in two dimensions is which may be satisfied by , where , if and therefore ?
' The total flow across the boundary of the circle of radius , \ldquo ; in unit tinle and when , this is to be equal to .
Therefore Thus the upper limit of integration taken to make where , when Writing for , this expression becomes the same as that previously found in Equation ( 16 ) .
JIethod of Finding the Conductivity for Heat .
CASE 7 .
Case of an Infinite Solid with small erlcal Source.\mdash ; The equation of motion in this case is or . . . . .
( 17 ) , where When is inite and the flow has become steady , , where But the general Equation ( 17 ) is satisfied also by , and by If we choose the latter , and put , we may take as the applicable to the present case For , ( 1 ) When , it reproduces the steady state ; ( 2 ) When , , which vanishes if ; ( 3 ) which is equal to when .
All the conditions are therefore atisfied .
The solution therefore is .

