IV .
" On the Serpentines of Canada and their associated Rocks .
" By T. STEIRY HUNT , Esq. , of the Geological Survey of Canada .
Communicated by THOMAs GRAHAM , Esq. , F.R.S. , Master of the Mint .
Received February 26 , 1857 .
The origin and formation of serpentine is still regarded as an unsettled problem by chemical geologists , and Sir William Logan having shown from structural evidence the undoubted stratified character and sedimentary origin of the serpentine of the Green Mountains in Canada , I have been induced to make a chemical and mineralogical investigation of these serpentines and the rocks associated with them .
In the present note I propose to indicate briefly some of the results obtained , reserving for another occasion the details of my examination .
The serpentines of the Green Mountains , which have been traced for 150 miles in Canada , have been found by Sir William to belong to the upper portion of the Lower Silurian system , whose disturbance and metamorphism have given rise to the great Apallachian chain , of which the Green Mountains are the north-eastern prolongation .
These mountains are composed of gneissoid , micaceous , argillaceous , talcose , and chloritic schists , with quartzite , limestone , dolomite , serpentine , pyroxenite , and the other rocks about to be mentioned .
The serpentines , which form immense beds , and often cover large areas , are sometimes homogeneous , and at other times conglomerate in their character , the cement being a ferruginous dolomite , or more rarely a carbonate of magnesia , exempt from lime but containing carbonate of iron .
In some cases the serpentine is intimately mixed with a large amount of carbonate of lime .
Chromic and magnetic iron , ilmenite , diallage , with the ordinary lamellar and fibrous varieties , picrolite and chrysotile , are common in these serpentine rocks .
The results of a great number of analyses show a uniformity of composition in all the serpentines of this formation , and also show a curious fact hitherto overlooked , -that of the constant presence of a small portion of nickel , never exceeding a few thousandths .
I have never failed to detect it in any variety of serpentine from this formation , not only in Canada , but in the States of Vermont , Connecticut , and New Jersey .
Its presence seems still more widely spread , for I have also found nickel in serpentines from California , the Vosges in France , and in a verd antique marble from a Roman ruin .
The association of nickel with the chromic iron and serpentines of Pennsylvania has been long known , and I have found the chromic iron of Canada to contain small portions both of nickel and cobalt , although the latter metal can rarely be detected in the nickeliferous serpentines .
The results of a number of analyses show that it is constantly present in the talcose slates and steatites of this region , and the same is to be observed of the magnesites and dolomites of the series ; indeed the distribution of nickel would seem to be co-extensive with that of the magnesia in this formation , and the same thing may be said of chrome .
I have , not , however , met with any traces of chrome or nickel in the serpentines and talcose rocks of the Laurentian system , which underlies the Silurian and the still older copper-bearing rocks of Lake Huron , and probably corresponds to the oldest gneiss of Scandinavia .
Both chrome and nickel , however , characterize the serpentines of the Vosges and of California .
I have not yet been able to examine specimens from other foreign localities .
The presence of traces of nickel in certain tales was long since noticed by Stromeyer .
Much of the so-called talcose slate of the Green Mountains is not imagnesian , but consists of a hydrous aluminous silicate allied to pyrophyllite or pholerite , which are alumina-talcs .
The euphotides , which are associated with many of the European serpentines , are not wanting in the Green Mountains , although less distinctly marked to the eye than the foreign varieties .
A tough , greenish or greyish-white rock , with a waxy lustre , forms in m1any places great stratified masses , which are associated with the serpentine , and is found on analysis to consist of a soda-felspar ( albite ) with a silicate of lime , magnesia , and protoxide of iron , having the composition of amphibole , -thus constituting a veritable euphotide .
The two minerals are clearly distinguishable after calcination , which blanches the felspar , and reddens the ferruginous silicate .
These rocks are by this means distinguished from others similar in their appearance and mode of occurrence , but consisting of petrosilex or compact siliceous felspar , and equally members of the sedimentary series .
The specific gravity of these euphotides shows that the saussurite or felspar which forms their base has a density not greater than that of ordinary soda-felspar .
Immediately connected with the serpentines , there sometimes occurs a white compact rock , remarkable by its great hardness , and a density of 33 to 3'5 .
Analysis shows this rock to be a pure limealumina garnet , in some cases , however , mingled with another silicate which appears to belong to the amphiboles .
This garnet is sometimes blended with serpentine , and at others forms distinct beds .
In its general aspect it resembles closely the saussurite of the associated euphotides , and has probably often been confounded with that mineral by previous observers .
Hence the densities of 3'2 and 3'3 assigned by different mineralogists to the saussurites of the Alps , while Delesse has shown that the true saussurite of the euphotide of Mount Genevre , like that of the Vosges , is a felspar .
The magnesites of this region form great beds ; they are crystalline , and consist of carbonate of magnesia with some carbonate of iron , and contain as imbedded minerals in some cases grains of quartz , in others felspar and talc , and at other times serpentine , but always holding chrome and nickel , the latter as a greenish carbonate , in the joints of the rock , or in the form of nickeliferous pyrites .
These magnesian rocks are not confined to the altered portions of this formation ; beds of siliceous dolomite holding protocarbonate of iron are found , interstratified with pure fossiliferous limestones , near Quebec .
The reaction between silica and the carbonates of lime , magnesia , and iron , which takes place at no very elevated temperature , in the presence of water , producing silicates of these bases with evolution of carbonic acid , enables us to understand the process which has given rise to the pyroxenes , serpentines , and talcs of this formation , while the argillaceous limestones , which are not wanting , contain all the elements of the garnet-rock .
The general conclusion deduced from these inquiries , and sustained by a great number of analyses , which I hope soon to submit to the Society , is , that the metamorphism of these Silurian strata has resulted from the chemical reaction , in the presence of water , of the elements existing in the original sedimentary deposits .

