A paper was read , entitled , " Researches on the Tides .
Fifth Series : On the Solar Inequality , and on the Diurnal Inequality of the Tides at Liverpool .
" By the Rev. William Whewell , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
The inequality both in the height and time of high water in the morning and evening tides of the same day , which varies according to a law depending on the time of the year , is termed by the author the diurnal inequality , because its cycle is one day .
The existence of such an inequality has often been noticed by seamen and other observers ; but its reality has only recently been confirmed by regular and measured observations ; and its laws have never as yet been correctly laid down .
The author gives an account of the observations now in progress at different ports , from which he expects they will be ascertained with great precision .
He traces the correspondence of the observations of the diurnal inequality already made with the equilibrium theory ; and remarks that the semi-diurnal tides , alternately greater and less , which are transmitted from the Southern Ocean to Liverpool , may be compared to the oscillations of a fluid mass : and that they are augmented by the action of the forces occurring at in ?
tervals equal to those of the oscillations .
Hence the oscillations go on increasing for a considerable period after the forces have gone on diminishing , and reach their maximum a week after the forces have passed theirs .
The remaining sections of this paper are devoted to the investiga ?
tion of the Solar inequalities at Liverpool .
By carefully eliminating the Lunar effects , which the author is enabled to do by the aid of the preceding researches , he has determined the approximate circum ?
stances of the Solar correction for the height .
lie has also obtained evidence of the existence , and some knowledge of the laws of the Solar inequalities of the times ; and these inequalities , as thus dis ?
covered , are found to exhibit the same general agreement with the equilibrium theory which has been disclosed in all the inequalities hitherto detected .
The results of the extensive observations now obtained are sufficiently precise to indicate the defects of our mathema ?
tical theories of hydrodynamics ; and some of these are pointed out by the author , who remarks that although a short time ago the theory 2f was in advance of observation , at present observation is in advance of theory ; which mathematicians are therefore called upon to remodel and perfect .
The author proceeds to consider the effect of the Moon 's declination on the Tides at Liverpool ; which , as before observed , it is necessary to eliminate , in order to obtain the Solar inequality ; and gives an explanation of various formulae and tables constructed for that object .
He then investigates the laws of the solar inequalities , first , as to the heights ; and secondly , as to the times of high water at Liverpool , by applying to them these methods of calculation .

