548 The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
Part I : The Achromatic Spindle Figure Illustrated hij Magnetic Chains of Force .
By Makcus Haktog , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.E.U.I. ( From the Biological Laboratory of Queen 's College , Cork .
) ( Communicated by Sir W. Thiselton Dyer , E.R.S. Received December 1 , 1904 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1905 .
) [ Plates 9\#151 ; 11 .
] I. Our first description of the polarised figure shown by the cytoplasm of the cell preparing for fission is due to Hermann Eol , who wrote in 1873 : " Auf beide Seiten dieser Kermiberbleibsel zeigen sich Plasma-Anhauf ungen , deren dicht angesammelten Kornchen zwei regelmassige sternformige Eiguren darstellen.* Die Strahle dieser Sterne werden durch die in gerade Linien aneinander gereihten Kornchen gebildet .
Mehrere solche Linien reichen von einem Stern oder Anziehungscentrum in einem Bogen zum andern .
Das ganze Bild ist ausserst klar , und erinnert lebhaft an die Art und Weise ausgestreuter Eisenstaub sich um die beiden Polen eines Magneten anordnet . . . .
Ich schliesse mich ganz und gar der Sachs'schen Theory der Furchung durch Anziehungs-Mittelpunkte an , nicht etwa aus theoretischen Griinden , sondern weil ich diese Attractionscentren gesehen habe."f Thus the similarity of the cellular field to that of two unlike magnetic poles was recognised from the very outset .
The figure in its highest development , as seen in Metazoa ( figs. 1\#151 ; 5 ) , has the character of a dumb-bell , whose spheroidal ends are termed " centrosomes , " and with the rays they give off , " polar asters " ; while the connection between them , of cytoplasmic fibres , is termed the " spindle .
" The astral rays diverge through apparently undifferentiated cytoplasm ; but the spindle-fibres traverse or bound a clear space , apparently occupied by liquid during life .
During the completion of the figure the nuclear wall has disappeared ( fig. 1 , E ) ; of its contents the rod-like bodies , known as chromosomes , are disposed in a symmetrical star across or around the equator of the spindle .
The chromosomes now split ( fig. 2 , G ) : the respective sister-segments of all diverge nearly simultaneously , E , and glide to the centrosome ( which they may even enter ) and then fuse into the daughter nucleus ( fig. 2 , I , J ) , the same process taking place simultaneously at either pole .
The present study is devoted to the * T. 24 , f. 2h .
+ " Die erst Entwicklung des Geryonideneies , " ' Jenaische Zeitschrift , ' vol. 7 .
The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
541\gt ; consideration of the character of the force operative in determining the cytoplasmic figure , which we term " mitokinetic force " ( our reason for using this term rather than " karyokinetic force " will be found below , p. 564 ) .
The behaviour and influence of the chromosomes we pass over for the present .
We must note that the figure as described is formed by growth ; its origin in animals is in a minute granule , the " centriole , " which becomes surrounded by a zone of clear cytoplasm , the " centroplasm " ; this grows endogenously besides sending out from a peripheral " mantle-layer " rays into the ambient plasma , along which undoubtedly food-material passes .
This centroplasm has within it no trace of radial structure , but consists of alveoli which enlarge as the structure grows ( fig. 4 ) .
A second centroplasmic layer is formed within in contact with the centriole ; and , as this grows , the alveolar layer of the original centroplasm becomes radially elongated , and affords a transition to a truly fibrillar radial structure ; this is repeated a third time , whereupon the centriole divides with its inner centroplasm , and thus are formed the two " centrospheres " or " centrosomes " that constitute the ends of the dumb-bell of division .
While the division of the centroplasm is taking place , the centroplasmic mass grows round the nucleus ( in the oosperm the conjoined and appressed male and female nuclei ) ; we may say that the nucleus becomes imbedded in the centroplasmic mass almost like an apple in a dumpling , so that the two centrospheres lie on either side of the nucleus .
The nuclear wall disappears ( first at the two sides turned to the respective centrospheres ) ; and the spindle is formed or rather completed by the extension of the inner rays across the nuclear space , while the rest of the nuclear contents are resolved into the chromosomes .
This is the history of the first segmentation-figure of ( figs. 3\#151 ; 5 ) , .
a worm allied to the common Blood-worm of our pond and ditch bottoms .
I have selected it because the cytoplasmic figure is the largest known ( 1/ 125 x 1/ 100 = 0'20 x 025 mm. ) , and because it has been fully studied by Vejdowsky and Mrazek ; while , thanks to the kindness of the former , I have enjoyed the opportunity of studying some of the most important stages on the original specimens .
In other cases , as in sperm-formation , a pair of minute centres united by a tiny spindle is seen on one side of the nucleus , and enlarges by the growth of all its elements except the centrioles : the spindle here seems to be bounded by a semi-pervious layer and to be turgescent as it grows .
The figures ( 1 , 2 ) copied from Wilson show a process of this type .
Again , - in Higher Plants the poles have , as a rule , no visible existence except as indicated by the point to which the spindle-fibres converge at 2 p 2 Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , either end .
These arise as a sort of radiation around the nucleus , extending from the whole of its periphery into the cytoplasm : the radial fibres come to approximate at their distal ends into bundles tapered at their ends , and ultimately in this way coalesce into the single spindle .
The disceding daughter chromosomes join up at the ends of the spindles to form the daughter nuclei .
When cell division does not follow nuclear division , as in the embryo-sac and in the pollen-formation of Exogens , etc. , the daughter nuclei remain for some time joined up by spindles .
Thus the peculiar phenomena of osmosis and growth of the Metazoan centrospheres can shed no light on the nature of the forces at work in the spindle itself , resulting in the discession of the chromosomal segments ; since the latter phenomena are repeated in Plants , which have no centrospheres .
II .
The problem of the character of the forces involved has been before my mind for at least twelve years , and resolved itself into the investigation of the physical laws according to which the cell behaved in respect of the dumb-bell and spindle figure .
I tried hard to induce friends expert in physics to take up the study of cytology for this purpose ; but in vain .
The publication in 1902 of a remarkable essay by Gallardo , summarising and extending the arguments on behalf of the views to which I leant , and including experiments more or less on the lines of those I had planned , showed how necessary was detailed work on these lines , and how much remained to be done .
I found also that the physical text-books and original papers , to which my own reading and the hints of my friends had led me , did not deal with the special problems involved : notably differences of " permeability " in the cytoplasm , and the redistribution of substances in a heterogeneous mixture under the action of a centred force to which the medium was not uniformly permeable ; while the necessary conception of " material chains of force " had not yet been even formulated by physicists .
I therefore commenced last autumn a series of experiments with models in methodical continuation of haphazard essays dating at least half a dozen years back .
I have received much valuable criticism ( for the most part destructive of my crude ideas ) from many physical friends , and notably my colleague , Professor Bergin , M.A. , and helpful guidance in matters both theoretical and practical , from my son-in-law , Mr. William Cramp , AM .
I.E.E. The photographs that illustrate this paper have been taken immediately under my direction by Mr. H. C. Booth , except fig. 5 , which I took myself .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
Since the days of Fol many explanations have been put forth , for the most part supported by able arguments , and illustrated by ingenious models .
These explanations may be classified into mechanical , assuming a " pull " or a " push , " and kinetic , invoking more subtle " centred forces .
" The most able advocate of the " pull theory " is Boveri .
We reject it because , though some of the threads attached to the chromosomes retract with them on their discession ( figs. 2 , H , 4)\#151 ; which would equally occur under the action of centred forces\#151 ; others remain stretched across from pole to pole ; nay , in some plants the chromosomes merely glide along the threads without any of these being retracted .
The " push theory " has even less to recommend it , despite the able pleas of Meves ; for the spindle-fibres are extremely flexible , and show no such changes of form and place as should necessarily accompany a pushing action .
We turn , therefore , to the " kinetic " theories , of which again are two types .
( 1 ) Rhumbler and Butschli have advocated the effects of surface-tension , osmosis , and diffusion-currents on the alveolate structure of the cytoplasm , regarding the fibres as the extreme effects of radial tensions due to such forces on the form and distribution of the alveoli ; and Leduc has contributed a study of the fields of force produced by diffusion-currents of scarcely more than molecular magnitude .
We shall see later that the conditions of the poles of the spindle are such as to render the action of such forces inadmissible to explain the cell-figure , nay , such as to prevent the formation of a spindle were the action of these forces propagated to a distance through the cytoplasm .
IY .
There remains only the supposition that the cell-force is of a " dual " character ( to use Faraday 's word ) like electrostatic force or magnetism ; that the cell-centres are the seats of opposite charges ; that the fibres of the spindle ( and of the asters , when such are present ) are differentiated in a " field of force , " and transmit lines of force under the action of a pair of " unlike " poles .
This conception , present , as we have seen , to Fol at the very birth of modern cytology , has been powerfully advocated by many , notably by Giard* and * Giard 's remarks\#151 ; as early as 1876\#151 ; are of singular interest , indicating as they do the lines on which investigation should be profitably conducted .
They occur in a rfaume of his course at the Faculty of Lille , under the title " L'CEuf et les Debuts de l'Evolution , " communicated to the editor of the ' Bulletin Scientifique du Nord ' at his request , in order to give his readers some idea of the new discoveries and conceptions in the domain of reproduction and cytology .
He writes : " L'explication physiologique du phenomene ... .
doit etre evidemment cherchee parmi les phenomenes physico-chimiques et la production de poles electriques ou Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , by Ziegler/ who devised an ingenious magnetic model , too simple , however , to carry theory much further ; and especially by Gallardo , f whose electrostatic model was a great step in advance .
It consisted in the introduction of the poles of an electrostatic machine into a glass trough containing sulphate of quinine suspended in oil of turpentine .
The quinine segregated out in filaments , or chains , forming a spindle between the terminals , so that the behaviour of " chains of force " ( see p. 555 ) might be studied .
He also showed that the introduction of a third terminal put to earth produced a deviation of some of the fibres from the belly of the spindle to itself\#151 ; the figure being , in fact , a " triaster , " such as sometimes occurs in dividing cells .
The adverse criticisms on Gallardo 's paper showed clearly that biologists for the most part had but ill-defined ideas of the action of dual forces , and the application of their laws to the conditions of the cell .
As mentioned above , the necessary conception of the " material chains of force " had not even been stated by the physicist ; and the conception of differences of permeability had not yet been applied\#151 ; even by Ziegler and Gallardo\#151 ; to cytological substances .
These were first put forward in my Preliminary Note " Des Chaines de Force , et d'un nouveau Modele magnetique des Mitoses cellulaires."+ Y. To render the actual experimental study intelligible to the biologist , we must review the conception of " lines of force " and its two extensions just mentioned .
Faraday , unable to admit the possibility of action at a distance , suggested that wherever such appeared to take place between two bodies or centres , the intervening medium must be in a state of strain : the direction of the stresses and consequent strains centering round the interacting bodies , and being continuous from one to the other along lines which he termed " lines of force .
" Clerk Maxwell , who much extended the idea , gave this definition :\#151 ; " If we olectrcwnagnetiques dans le noyau .
PeutAtre arrivera-t-on a mettre experimentalement en Evidence ces curieux processus en employant des spheres liquides en suspension dans un autre liquide , comme le faisait Plateau , mais en m61angeant ces liquides de substances fortement magnetiques et capables d'acqnerir des pdles sous 1 influence d'aimants puissants .
II y aurait tout un ordre de recherches a entreprendre dans ce sens .
" ( ' Bull .
Sc. , ' vol. 7 , 1876 , p. 258 .
) I think it right to cite this passage , as the periodical is not widely circulated in England , and the passage , to my knowledge , is rarely quoted ; I blush to say that I first read it in Gallardo .
It clearly foreshadows the line of work pursued by Gallardo and myself .
* " Untersuchungen liber die Zelltheilung , " ' Yerh .
Deutsch .
Zool. Ges .
, ' 1895 .
t " Gallardo , " Essai d'lnterpretation des Figures karyokin6tiques , " ' Ann. Mus. Buenos Aires , ' 1896 ; " Interpretacion dinamica de la Division Celular , " 1902 .
f 'Comptus Rendus , ' June 10 , 1904 .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
553 draw a line such that at every part of its course it is coincident in direction with the force at that point , this line may be called a ' line of force , ' since it indicates the direction of the force at every part of its course."* It will be noted that such a line is a geometrical line , not a material line .
Maxwell also recognised that for a field of two " unlike " poles the lines have the distribution of stream-lines in liquid in relation to an upwelling source and an engulfing sink , and , like Kelvin , saw that this distribution was identical with the lines of the flow of heat in a conductor between a source of heat and a refrigerator ; while the field of two " like " poles corresponded with the thermal field of two sources of heat , or two refrigerators , as the case might be .
A quantitative meaning has been attached to the conception of " lines of force , " and with this addition it now forms the base of the proximate or practical theory of electrical engineering .
I can best illustrate this quantitative connotation by the use of an analogy which I have myself found helpful .
We may attach such a quantitative meaning to the " ray of light " in geometrical optics , by defining the intensity of illumination of a surface as the number of " unit rays " falling on it at right angles ( or their equivalent at other angles ) per unit of area .
Adopting this convention , we pass to the question of " permeability .
" We find that if the medium traversed by lines of force be not uniform , the lines of certain forces travel more readily in some substances than in others .
Thus magnetic lines pass more readily through soft iron than through air , through air than through bismuth ; similarly electrostatic force travels more readily in sulphur than in air , etc. Such differences are termed differences of " permeability " in relation to magnetism , of " specific inductive capacity " for electricity !
; but the term permeability has already received a wide general application ; and we shall use it in relation to mitokinetic force , without making any assumption as to its nature .
The " permeance " of any portion of a field of force is defined as the product of the permeability of the * ' Sci. Works , ' vol. 1 , p. 467 .
t [ I find that the term was indeed introduced into Physics in this wide sense by Lord Kelvin in 1872 : " The common word ' permeability ' seems well adapted to express the specific quality in each of the four analogous subjects .
Adopting it we have thermal permeability , a synonym for thermal conductivity ; permeability for lines of electric force , a synonym for the electro-static inductive capacity of an insulator ; magnetic permeability , a synonym for conducting power for lines of magnetic force ; and hydro-kinetic permeability , a name for the specific quality of a porous solid , according to which , when placed in a moving frictionless liquid , it modifies the flow."\#151 ; " A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism , " in ' Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' Section 628.\#151 ; Added during the printing .
] Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , material into its cross section , divided by the length of the path travelled by the lines .
Now the laws of distribution of the lines in a magnetic field are these:\#151 ; 1 .
All lines travel from one pole to another of opposite sign , in continuous curves , which may , however , only be completed at infinity .
2 .
The number of lines in any part of a-field is proportionate to the permeance of the path they have to travel .
The terms " reluctivity , " " reluctance , " are defined as the reciprocals of permeability and permeance respectively ; it is often more convenient to use them , and to speak of a material as of " high reluctivity " than as of " low permeability .
" YI .
The path traversed by these lines in air can be approximately shown in the case of magnetism by placing a piece of smooth paper horizontal in the field to be studied , strewing it with magnetic dust , such as iron filings , reduced iron , or powdered magnetic oxide of iron ( Fe304)* and gently agitating the paper , when the powder is seen to arrange itself in the well-known curves .
To obtain such delineation in fields with varied poles I found it necessary to devise a special apparatus , which has been constructed for me by the Crypto Works Company , Ltd. ( now the Crypto Electrical Company ) .
A square base-plate of cast iron supports four columns of brass , screwed at their upper ends , and fitted with large flat nuts .
Vertical electromagnets are provided , with the soft iron cylindrical cores longer than the coils , and rounded above to give more horizontal spread to the lines leaving them : they rest on the base-plate , which serves to lessen the air-gap ; and is , for a pair of straight electromagnets with opposite poles , the equivalent of the yoke or crosspiece of a horseshoe-magnet .
The extra length of the cores is a device to secure stability : either the top of the core passes through a hole in a perforated slab of wood supported on the brass columns ; or the coil rests on a perforated cylinder of lead through which the lower part of the core passes , in which case a thin plate of brass may replace the wooden slab .
The latter arrangement allows any distance to be put between the poles , instead of the limitations imposed by the perforations of the slab .
The coils are attached at the lower end by flexible connections ( of lamp-cable ) to the binding-screws of a mercury commutator , which allows of the ready reversal of the polarity of any magnet singly .
An ammeter , a rheostat , and a source of constant current at 4 volts complete the apparatus .
The coils will stand for a short time a current of 5 amperes as a maximum .
* I use the native magnetite , crushed , levigated , separated from impurities by magnetism , and dried ; it is much blacker than metallic iron , and the figures show up better .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
The perforated slab or brass plate serves as a " stage " on which we can place our paper ; or , if we wish to delineate our field in a liquid medium , a glass plate is placed on the paper , which now serves to reflect the light , better illumination being thus obtained than by the use of porcelain .
To delineate the field with dust in air , I sprinkle the dust on the paper by shaking it through fine copper gauze covered by a cambric rag ; and for tapping I use the " connection " of a bicycle inflator\#151 ; consisting of two metal nuts united by thick rubber tube\#151 ; which is convenient as enabling me to regulate the taps with great delicacy .
It is often best to tap the base or columns of the apparatus rather than the stage or the paper .
For the study of the " chains " in liquid I use a mixture of the magnetic dust with glycerine , dissolved or melted balsam , or melted jelly , spread on a glass or porcelain plate .
Under the influence of the field the liquid soon differentiates into chains of the magnetic material , separated by clear spaces , and the effects of the continuance or increase of the magnetic force can be studied .
A Leitz " large microphotographic apparatus , " provided with a 5-inch RR lens , and with the camera vertical , serves to record the figures obtained ; the magnetic apparatus being placed on the base-plate of the photographic instrument .
YII .
We can now study the nature of the figures obtained by our apparatus , and we begin with the dust-paper results .
While resting on the paper , the dust is kept stationary by friction ; but , on tapping , it rises in a cloud into the air , and is free to respond to the magnetic stresses present , and to arrange itself into the material curves which we term " chains of force , " and define as the " files of more permeable substance segregated along lines of force out of a mixture under the stresses of a centred force in this case the mixture is that of air and dust in the cloud .
Faraday , indeed , already noted that the presence of the iron dust was a disturbing factor in the distribution of the lines of force in air which he employed it to demonstrate ; but the first explicit recognition of such chains as a system to be studied is , I believe , to be found in the preliminary note cited above .
By the laws of the distribution of lines of force , such a chain of particles , possessing n-times the average permeability ( taking into account the air mtervening between its particles ) of an adjacent tube of air of equal section , will contain %-times as many unit lines of force approximately .
The properties of these chains are far better studied when formed in a viscid medium , which acts as a bond between their successive particles .
Here their toughness is remarkable .
With a permanent magnet I have obtained horizontal spindles in glycerine in a vertical trough which , despite Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. ] , their sag , persisted for three days ; but for such results we must , of course , use dust of special fineness .
In such a medium the chains may be seen to sag without rupture under the influence of gravity ; they can be pushed aside by contact with a glass rod , or swayed by .
currents ; or , if the vessel that contains them be moved , they may be deflected by the shifting of their position relative to the poles before they rupture , through the lag imposed by the viscidity of the medium ( fig. 14 ) .
Owing to the relatively high permeability of their substance , they retain in all these cases of deviation , despite their elongation , the majority of their lines of force : for , under the conditions of the experiment , the elongation is of a lower order of magnitude than the ratio of their average permeability to that of the medium .
VIII .
Under the microscope a chain is seen to be spongy , composed of loosely laid strands joining at very acute angles .
Its constitution is conditioned by three factors : ( 1 ) The relative permeabilities of the powder of the medium ; ( 2 ) the viscosity of the medium ; ( 3 ) the intensity of the magnetising force : as the last increases , the texture becomes more serried by the squeezing out of the intervening liquid .
As we have just seen , the chains are composed of fine strands meeting at acute angles , so in the segregation to form the chains themselves two of them may meet and unite at an acute angle\#151 ; " anastomose , " in fact .
Such junctions are to be found in almost all published figures of dust in air on paper from the time of Faraday ( figs. .10 , 13 , 15 ) ; bat they are especially easy to observe when the dust is suspended in liquid ( figs. 6\#151 ; 9 ) .
Once formed , the magnetic stresses hardly tend to rupture them , and they are nearly as resistent as any other part of the chains ( if not quite ) : they are often sufficiently abundant to give the whole figure the aspect of a network with rhomboidal meshes .
Of course , lines of force cannot anastomose in this way , and the existence of anastomoses in the cell-figure was necessarily a difficulty in the way of explaining that figure by centred forces , so long as the distinctive characters and properties of the chains of force were not recognised .
In a viscid medium , moreover , the chains of force are often seen to cross one another at slightly different levels\#151 ; to interlace in fact\#151 ; simulating such true networks as we have just seen .
Here is another point of difference between chains of force and lines of force in a uniform medium .
Now crossings as well as networks are of frequent occurrence in the cell-figure , notably when it is in process of formation , and before the spindle has reached its full development .
At this stage the astral rays growing 1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
out from either centre will frequently extend beyond the equator of the cell , into what we may term the " domain " of the other centres here such crossings are especially common , and occur when the direction of the rays is approximately straight .
From this we may infer that the reluctivity to the mitokinetic force of the undifferentiated protoplasm and its inclusions is very high , so that the rays are but little affected by that centre to which they are not as yet organically attached .
As soon as two rays from opposite centres actually meet and join , their straightness passes into a curve concave to the intercentral axis .
The comparison between the cellular and the magnetic chains can be but an imperfect one at best , on account of the different ways in which they are formed respectively : the magnetic chains are formed simultaneously* by segregation along their whole course , and the cell-chains by progressive outgrowth from the centres .
All the same , we have seen that the crossings and interlacings , which have been invoked as incompatible with magnetic analogies , are actually produced in our magnetic model , and their presence in the cell-figure is no argument against the kinetic nature of the cell-spindle , or the dual nature of the cell-stresses .
Take , on the other hand , the assumption that the fibres are the transmitters of a mechanical push or pull : they are imbedded in viscid protoplasm , so that by friction they would communicate their motion thereto .
Thus , where crossing occurred , the motions of the adjacent crossing fibres would be mutually transmitted , and would effect lateral displacements which have been neither figured nor recorded , and which it is safe to conclude do not exist in the cell .
In this respect , therefore , the crossings of the astral rays tell equally against both of the mechanical explanations of the cell-figure , while they are actually reproduced in our magnetic model .
IX .
In certain cellular fields , notably in the segmentation-cells of the Slug ( .Limax ) described and figured by Mark in 1879 , the cell-fibres diverge in spirals from the poles .
This is one of many proofs that forces other than , and additional to , the centred mitokinetic force , are operative in the dividing cell .
Here , again , we see the contrast between the behaviour of lines of force in a homogeneous medium and our material chains of force .
If we rotate in our field of two unlike poles the glass plate covered with viscid mixture , we see the chains become sigmoid or / -shaped , owing to the * I speak only of the conditions under which I have experimented .
If the poles were remote , and the magnetomotive force long maintained , I should not doubt that the magnetic chains would grow out from the poles .
Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , lag imposed by the viscidity of the medium ( fig. 14 ) ; it is interesting to see how they often become ruptured into a series of short lengths which individually lag more than the chains as a whole .
Such figures represent approximately the axial section of a bipolar field , of which the polar areas are subjected to equal and opposite torsions .
We use melted jelly or balsam to obtain a figure whose changes during revolution are arrested by its solidification , so as to allow of its being preserved and photographed .
The interlacings of chains are especially well shown in some of these " torsion " figures .
X. The distribution of the chains of force in the cell is very imperfectly represented by the classical figures of the magnetic field of two " unlike " poles hitherto utilised ; for these always depict the axial portions of fields of indeterminate extension .
They have hence the character that the lines tend to pass from one pole to the other without deflection , and so form a series of curves all concave to the interpolar axis\#151 ; the straight continuations of this axis being supposed to meet at infinity .
Now the chains in the cell are differentiated into ( 1 ) " astral rays , " radiating more or less directly outwards from the centres , and usually nearly straight or even convex to the interpolar axis , but concave to its prolongations ; and ( 2 ) the spindle-fibres extending from pole to pole , and concave to the interpolar axis .
We can make a far more exact magnetic model than the common one , if we limit the field by an envelope of highly permeable material ; for which purpose I use a sheet of charcoal-iron with an oval window , like a photographer 's vignette-mask .
We now see the chains radiating from the pole outwards , straighten out , or even become convex to the interpolar axis and concave to its prolongation , thus turning their backs on the spindle-fibres ( figs. 7 , 8 , 15 ) .
In the cell the rays appear straight most frequently , but the back-turned ( adossS ) condition is often seen and figured .
The analogy of this model would lead us to infer that the " Hautschicht " of the cell is highly " permeable " to mitokinetic force .
A still closer approximation to the character of the mature dumbbell figure of the animal cell is seen in glycerine or other viscid media , when we allow the magnetic stress to continue after the first segregation has taken place ( figs. 9 and 10 ) .
The chains , like other permeable bodies , tend to place themselves in the strongest part of the field .
Consequently , the interpolar chains move laterally in towards the axis , shortening up as they do so by the squeezing out of the liquid in the interstices between consecutive particles and adjacent strands .
Since this action lessens as we recede from the neigh1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
559 bourhood of the axis , we reach on either side a zone where the viscidity of the medium is strong enough to resist it , and to inhibit the motion of the chains .
Thus the spindle becomes thickened and denser from the lateral crowding in of chains ( fig. 10 ) while peripherally there is left a clear space from which the chains have passed inwards ; the result being a clearer differentiation into central spindle and polar asters .
Our figures show how much closer an approximation we have obtained in our model to the cell-figure by combination of the two devices , ( a ) the provision of a permeable envelope , and ( 6 ) the production of the figure in a medium where the prolonged action of the stresses may have its due effect .
The clear space has been recognised in the cell , and received the name of " Biitschli 's Space " ( Bhumbler ) .
We can reproduce the same effect on smooth paper if the tapping be sufficiently energetic or prolonged : it has doubtless been often obtained involuntarily by the physicist , who has evidently not thought it worth his while to reproduce a " failure " so far as his object was concerned ; for that has merely been the delineation of the direction of the lines of force in a uniform medium of indeterminate extension .
XI .
In certain cases , more than two centres appear in cells , united by spindles , and constituting " tri- , " " tetr- , " and " poly-asters .
" It has often been laid down as a mathematical truth that the action of a dual force is incompatible with the formation of a field with an odd number of centres all joined by spindles .
Bhumbler definitely states as a law : " Magnetic lines of force can never form three spindles between three consecutive poles . . .
three adjacent poles even when there are more than three poles in the field , can never be joined up by three spindles " * ; and his argument would certainly apply to all dual forces .
There is , however , a flaw in his exposition : as Gallardo had pointed out some years before , two opposite poles , and a third point at zero , behave as three distinct centres in his electrostatic model ( above , p. 552 ) .
We may call two unlike magnetic poles " positive " and " negative " respectively , when a mass of soft iron will correspond to a " zero " centre .
Thus we place below our stage two unlike magnetic poles at the ends of the base of an obtuse-angled triangle , and a core ( without a coil ) at the vertex , with a wafer-like disc of iron lying on the plate above ; the figure obtained is seen to be a triaster * " Mechanische Erklarung der Ahnlichkeit zwischen Magnetischen Kraftliniens systemen .
und Zelltheilungsfiguren , " 'Arch .
Entwicklungsmech , " vol. 16 , 1903 .
" Yon magnetischen Kraftlinien konnen niemals drei Spindeln zwischen drei Polen hervorgebildet werden ... .
aueh wenn mehr als drei Polen im Diagramm vertreten sind , konnen niemals drei benachbarte Polen durch drei Spindeln verbunden sein " ( p. 482 ) .
Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , with its centres joined up by consecutive spindles ( fig. 8 ) .
The higher the permeability of the chains , the greater the reluctivity of the medium , the more nearly could we approach an equilateral triangle ; as it is , in the cell triaster as figured by many observers the three centres are rarely , if ever , equidistant .
Again , we can obtain a tetraster with four consecutive spindles and a fifth spindle uniting two opposite centres , like that often found involving four nuclei in the embryo-sac of Flowering Plants , by using two unlike poles alternating with two cores ( fig. 9 ) .
This figure is clearly the preceding triaster doubled , or , as we may say , united with its " reflection .
" We can obtain the equivalent of four triasters joined into a square , if we place four alternate poles at the angles , and a core in the centre ( fig. 10 ) .
Either of these two figures can by addition of suitable centres be extended indefinitely to " fill space .
" Thus , if we replace the term " pole " by " centre " both of Rhumbler 's dicta fall to the ground : the physical explanation is obvious , and there is no jugglery .
It would appear that in the cell , when there is a plurality of centres , they tend to acquire charges such that the number of spindle-connections is a maximum.* XII .
The tetraster , which occurs , for instance , in the spore-mother-cells of the Hepaticse , where four centres occupy the poles of a tetrahedron , and the spindles extend only to a central mass of chromosomes , may be modelled in a plane by a set of three " like " poles surrounding a central core or an opposite pole ( or by a single central pole and three cores , which , of course , gives a weaker field ) .
The addition of a fourth " like " pole vertically above the core would complete the model , supposing that the core could also rise to the centre of the figure , drawing up with it its three spindles .
Or we may model the tetraster in a plane with four " like " poles and a central core or " unlike " pole to represent the aggregated chromosomes , or a central pole and four surrounding cores ( fig. 11 ) .
The chromosomes are highly permeable to mitokinetic force ( see below , p. 564 ) .
XIII .
We can study and elucidate other cell-figures by the aid of models .
Thus Vejdowsky and Mr\amp ; zek have found that one or both of the centrosomes may be drawn out into a spheroidal " blob " on the side next the attachment of the spindles\#151 ; a state of things evidently due to the opposite actions ( a ) of the spindle under mitokinetic force , and ( )of the tractive forces in the cytoplasm pulling the centrosomes towards the periphery of the cell ( fig. 4 ) .
* This point will be further discussed in Part II .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing 561 We can model this by putting a heap of heavy , coarse powder just in front of the poles , or by cementing to the glass a small disc of charcoal-iron in the corresponding place , especially if we cement a larger disc immediately over the pole ( fig. 15 ) .
I also figure a " monaster " from Boveri , where the centrosome has broadened out , but failed to divide ( fig. 12 ) .
Its magnetic model is thus obtained : a blunt crescent of charcoal-iron is cemented over the pole of a single magnet to represent the centrosome , and a small disc in its concavity represents the nucleus ( fig. 13 ) .
From the correspondence of the distribution of the chains of force , we must infer that the nucleus , or at least the nuclear wall is highly 'permeable to mitolcinetic force .
This is a very good illustration of the value of our method of studying by models , in enabling us to gain an insight into the laws of the cellular field .
XIY .
We are now sufficiently familiar with the essential conceptions of the theory ; and can profitably examine in detail how far such forces as osmosis , surface-tension , etc. , could be used to explain the cell-figure .
Thanks to the careful researches of Vejdowsky and Mrazek on the most favourable object known , we are aware that the osmotic and surface-tension actions at the two cell-centres are of exactly similar character .
They appear ( a ) to be limited to the immediate neighbourhood of the centrosomes , ( b ) to have for their object the nutrition of these , and ( c ) not to be transmitted to a distance .
The first-formed rays , indeed , seem different in their behaviour to the later ones , and to have no kinetic action , no inductive results on those of the opposite poles .
Were there any action at a distance the field produced must resemble that of two " like " magnetic or electrostatic poles .
For if " like " centres act through a permeable medium , ( 1 ) a particle free to move under their influence , if on the axis joining them or its prolongations , will tend to move along that straight line to the nearer one if the force be one of attraction , away from it if it be one of repulsion ; except that if it be at the centre of figure ( assuming that the forces are equal in magnitude ) it will stay there .
Thus the line drawn through the poles is a " line of force .
" ( 2 ) Any point on the equator , or plane bisecting the interpolar axis at right angles , will tend to move to ( or from ) the centre of figure ; so that every line on the equator passing through the centre is also a line of force .
( 3 ) The remaining lines of force all diverge from the poles , and are convex to the interpolar axis .
The figure of the distribution of the lines of force in such a field we may call the " anti-spindle " or " crossed field .
" Thus the formation of a spindle is impossible between two poles of " like " or of undifferentiated character .
As stated above Leduc has demonstrated this for diffusion-currents of Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , scarcely more than molecular value.* If we place in a solution of a substance a crystal of the substance dissolved , this will determine a flow of liquid towards itself , and may be termed " positive " ; if we introduce a droplet of the solvent , it will act as a centre of repulsion , or " negative " pole .
If we take a solution of saltpetre , and introduce into it a crystal of this substance , and , at a distance , a droplet of defibrinated blood\#151 ; of lower isotonic value than the solution\#151 ; the blood-corpuscles may be seen to flow along the curves of a spindle to the crystal .
Two " like " centres , whether of concentration or of dilution , always behave as " like " poles , and determine the " crossed field " ; consequently this group of phenomena cannot determine the cell-field .
I should say frankly that Leduc 's experiments were undertaken in the hope * of applying the explanation of diffusion to mitokinetic force ; so far as I know , he still retains the belief that it can be done.f Butschli has described and photographed !
alleged " spindles " in films of jelly cooled and dried on glass , around air bubbles , thus converting the alveolar structure of the jelly , which he has done so much to elucidate , into a radial structure .
Now , on this argument , a posteriori , we may note:\#151 ; ( 1 ) His figures appear in his plates absolutely ambiguous , the rays of some of the spindles meeting at an angle on the equator , as if the medium were not permeable , and the far pole had no inductive effect .
( 2 ) The centres , as figured in the less ambiguous cases , are not such as to carry the conviction that they are " like " members of a pair , and , though the differences may be due to differences of level and focus , it is rather significant that Butschli does not notice their unlikeness , or think it needful to comment on it .
( 3 ) The discussion in the text is wholly inadequate , showing clearly how far the author has failed to realise the physical difficulties in the way of his views .
I may translate , in illustration of this physical inadequacy , the opening passage , describing the asters , and leading up to the spindles : " The tension exerted in all directions by the decreasing size of air-bubbles on the surrounding alveolar network must , of course , decrease in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance .
The decrease of the visible action of this * " Champs de Force de Diffusion , " 'Comptes Rend us Assoc. France , ' Montauban , 1902 , p. 309 ; " Les Champs de Force chez les fitres vivants , " ' Comptes Rendus Soc. Biol. , ' vol. 4 , p. 367 , 1903 .
t [ Leduc has now recognised that the centres in the dividing cell are " like " centres in respect of diffusion , and explains the cell-spindle as a false-spindle , ' C. R. , ' December 5 , 1904 : this explanation is irreconcileable with the existence of continuous spindle fibres extending in the cell from pole to pole across the equator.\#151 ; Note added during the printing .
] !
" Untersuchungen fiber Strukturen , insbesondere fiber Strukturen nichtzelliger Erzeugnisse des Organismus , und fiber ihre Beziehung zu Strukturen welche ausserhalb des Organismus entstehen , " 1898 .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing 563 force in the transformation of the alveolar into a radiate structure must , however , since it involves relations of volume , take place in the inverse ratio of the cube of the distance."* We know nothing of forces acting " inversely as the cube of the distance , " and I cannot see why Biitschli should have thought it necessary to assume such .
Khumbler , who also believes that the action of surface-tension and diffusion on the alveoli of Biitschli produces the cell-figure , has devised an ingenious model to illustrate the action of the forces at the centres.f He forms a net of some 300 india-rubber rings each united to its neighbours by six bonds to form a hexagon ; the net is approximately circular , and some 20 meshes across .
This is stretched on an iron hoop over a sheet of cardboard or paper in which holes are pierced .
Through these holes the net can be drawn down to represent centres of radial attraction .
If two such centres be taken and the net pulled through both , the intervening meshes along the intercentral axis are pulled out and narrowed , the narrowing being extreme at the poles , and least half-way between them .
He interprets the widening of the central row of meshes towards the equator as showing that under these conditions two undifferentiated or " like " forces can produce a " spindle " field .
I confess that I was not a little puzzled by this apparent contradiction of mechanical principles .
However , on looking at the net , we find that the so-called " spindle " arrangement involves about eight meshes in length and ceases completely within two meshes on either side of the centre ; and that the long sides of all the remaining meshes form broken curves , which , with a minimum of smoothing out , clearly follow the lines of the " crossed field " just as might have been anticipated .
The apparent " spindle " is a mere grain-or texture-result , due to the large size and inadequate number of the meshes .
Had he made this net of 2700 meshes , so as to have a diameter of nearly 60 meshes , and put his centres 24 meshes apart , he would have seen that the " spindle " was no wider than before .
Yet even with this enlargement the number of meshes in the intercentral " spindle " would have been of a much lower order of number than the Biitschlian alveoli in the spindle of a dividing cell ; while the cell-spindle is much wider relatively to its length .
* " Die Zugkraft , welehe bei der Verkleinerung der Luftblasen allseitig auf das umgebende Wabengeriiste wirkt , muss naturlich umgekehrt proportional dem Quadrat der Entfernung abnehmen .
Die Abnahme der sichtbaren Wirkuug dieser Kraft , welche sich in der Umformung des Wabengeriistes zu strahliger Besclialfenheit aussert , nimmt dagegen wohl , da es sich urn korperlichen Verhaltnisse handelt .
umgekehrt der 3 Potenz der Entfernung ab , " p. 158 .
t " Versuch einer Meehanische Erklarung der indirekten Zelltlieilung : 1 Th. Die Cytokinese , " ' Arch. Entw .
, ' vol. 3 , 1896 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 Q Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , Consequently , as I have shown elsewhere , * the model does not justify the theory of its author .
His apparent triaster is founded on the same error .
Though the scope of the present study is essentially limited to the achromatic figure , I must say a few words on the chromosomes .
If we represent the split chromosomes by strips of charcoal-iron , we find the distribution of the magnetic chains corresponds to those of the cell-figure , and may hence infer that the chromosomes are permeable to mitokinetie force , and consequently susceptible to its induction .
The result of this is that two adjacent segments will be the seats of like charges , and repel one another : any slight movement that brings the two sister segments so that they are respectively nearer opposite poles , will tend to separate them by the effects of this induction , and the segments will then recede from one another .
As they do this , any chain connecting the segment with the nearer pole will shorten and thicken .
It thus simulates the behaviour of a muscular fibre , but differs in that it shortens up to nothing , it is taken up into the centre of force or disappears into the cytoplasm : such fibres have been termed " tractive " fibres par excellence .
I have begun a series of experiments using aggregations of magnetic matter free to move in a viscid medium to represent the chromosomes and diffused dust to form the spindle fibres .
Here we can see the magnetic chains attached to the aggregates move up as the aggregates move towards the poles ; we cannot call such shortening magnetic chains " tractive , " and have no right to ascribe this function to the corresponding fibres in the cell .
But my work on the models of the chromosomes is too inchoate for me to do more than indicate the lines on which it is shaping .
I should add that in 1898 I definitely wrote:\#151 ; " The splitting of a viscid thread is one of the most difficult mechanical feats to accomplish .
Suppose , then , that there is a certain polarity about the granules of chromatin , through which , after their division , they tend to recede from their fellows as far as possible : through this they will determine a splitting of the filament on which they are strung."f XVI .
The name I have given to the dual force we have just studied may perhaps be criticised on the ground that , as " karyokinetic force " is a more or less familiar word to cytologists , there was no need to invent a new term .
* ' Arch. Entwickl.,5 vol. 19 , 1905 .
t " Nuclear Reduction and the Functions of Chromation " ( 'Nat .
Sci.,5 vol. 13 , and ' Biol. Centr .
, ' vol. 18 , 1898 ) .
Ralph S. Lillie has developed similar views , and regards the force as definitely electrostatic .
" On Differences in the Direction of the Electrical Convection of certain Free Cells and Nuclei , " ' Amer .
J. Physiol.,5 vol. 8 , January , 1903 ; see also ' Biol. Bull.,5 vol. 4 , 1903 .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
The fact is that the etymological meaning of " karyokinesis " ( = disturbance of the nucleus ) forbids its correct application to the dual force we have investigated .
For this reveals itself first in the cytoplasm , while the nuclear wall is still intact , and since this wall is highly permeable , it must act as a screen between its contents and the force in the cytoplasm , just like a spherical investment of charcoal-iron would screen all within it from external magnetism .
If by a permissible extension of meaning we use karyokinesis as an inclusive term to designate all the phenomena of " indirect cell-division , " we find that this covers not only the dual force , but the forces that separate the poles , and possibly others as well , for the process is not a simple one .
Hence , for this dual force under which the cytoplasm gives rise to chains of foree in the form of the dumb-bell figure , comprising spindle and asters , we have had to use the term " mitokinetic , " signifying the kinesis which reveals itself by a thread-structure .
Summary .
1 .
The cytoplasmic figure of the dividing-cell is a strain-figure , under the action of a dmal force , -analogous to magnetism , and still more to statical electricity ; without prejudging its nature further we may call it " mitokinetic force " or " mitokinetism .
" 2 .
The conception of relative permeability is invoked for the first time in elucidating the behaviour of this dual force in comparison with those of magnetism .
3 .
By comparison with magnetic models we find that ( a ) the spindle fibres and astral rays , ( b ) the Hautschicht of the cytoplasm , ( c ) the nuclear wall , and ( d ) the free chromosomes along the cell-spindle must all be of high permeability to mitokinetism as compared with the other structures of the cell ( see also 7 , 12 , 14).* 4 .
As the cell-structures are all material , the conception of geometrical lines of force is inadequate to explain them .
We must recognise that the effect of stresses within a mixture of substances which are of different permeability and free to rearrange themselves , will be to segregate out the more permeable material in strands along the lines of force whose distribution they modify .
Such strands we may call " material chains of force f or for brevity simply " chains of force."It is only our recognition of these structures that enables us adequately to utilise electric and magnetic models for our explanations .
* [ 3a .
The periphery of the centrosome is also highly permeable , since it screens the alveolar contents from the action of the surrounding field ( see fig. 4).\#151 ; Note added during printing .
] Dr. M. Hartog .
[ Dec. 1 , 5 .
The fibres of the cell-spindle and astral rays are of the nature of chains of force ; their 'production by outgrowth of differentiated cytoplasm from a centre is different to that by simultaneous segregation of the magnetic chains in a mixture of magnetic dust and liquid , etc. , under the condition of the experiment ( but see note to p. 557 ) .
We can , however , utilise the study of the physical properties of magnetic chains , and apply by analogy many of the results to the cell-chains .
6 .
Thus , magnetic chains of force ( a ) anastomose and ( b ) interlace at adjacent levels as cell-chains are found to do. .
7 .
The straight or backturned radiations of the astral rays are repeated in the magnetic models if we put in place of the outer cytoplasmic membrane ( Hautschicht ) an envelope permeable to magnetism ( see 3 , 5 ) .
8 .
A disc of iron put in front of a crescentic pole-piece gives the same field as the nucleus in the hollow of a single crescentic centrosome ( see 3 , c ) .
9 .
The axial section of a spiral cell-field may be modelled magnetically if we use a mixture of magnetic dust in a viscid medium , and rotate it over a pair of unlike poles .
From this we infer that other forces than mitokinetic are operative in the dividing cell , where such figures are seen .
10 .
The separation of the poles of the cell figure must be also due to other forces , and the effect of their traction against that of the spindle is sometimes exceptionally well seen in the occurrence of " blobbed centrosomes .
11 .
We can obtain a triaster ( and combinations implying the triaster ) of three poles joined by consecutive spindles by the action of three centres , two poles of opposite sign , and the third of zero sign\#151 ; in the models the core of a magnet without a coil .
These figures may be extended by additional centres to " fill space .
" 12 .
In most multipolar cell-figures the poles are so distributed as to produce the maximum of spindle connections .
13 .
We can produce a figure of four poles united by spindles to a common centre of opposite sign or at zero ; this is the analogue of the tetraster about a central mass of chromosomes ( see 3 , c ) .
14 .
Chains of force , like movable magnets , tend to move into the strongest part of the field ; thus if we form a magnetic spindle in glycerine , the lateral chains tend to sway or drift in towards the axis , becoming shorter and denser , the clear lateral space from which they have receded corresponds to " Biitschli 's Space " in the cell .
15 .
The separation and discession of the sister segments of the chromosomes from the equator to opposite poles is such as would take place under the action of a dual force , and can be reproduced in our model ( see 3 , d ) .
16 .
A spindle figure can only be obtained in a field with the two unlike Hartog .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 76 , Plate 9 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 2 .
i jr Hartog .
Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 76 , Plate 10 .
Fig. 3 .
m ml mp H 'Emit ii iM .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
Hartog .
Roy .
Soc. .
, B. vol. 76 , Plate 11 .
Fig. 10 .
Fig. 13 .
^ Fig. 14.Fig .
15 .
1904 .
] The Dual Force of the Dividing Cell .
567 poles of a dual force .
As the diffusion , osmosis , and surface-tension phenomena are of similar character at the two poles of a cell , they cannot be the forces involved in the spindle .
Non-polarised undifferentiated forces , such as gravity , produce not the spindle-figure , but the " crossed field .
" 17 .
Since an isolated magnetic pole cannot exist ( our model having simply served to show how the axial section of an imaginary field would behave ) , it is obvious that the cell-field , being in three dimensions , and with isolated unlike poles , cannot be due to magnetism .
18 .
It is not impossible that the field may be produced by statical electricity , but for the present there is no proof thereof .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES 9\#151 ; 11 .
( Glycerine ) ( jelly ) means that the dust was suspended in glycerine or jelly respectively ; ( dust ) that magnetic dust was sifted on to paper , and figure obtained by tapping ( see p. 555 ) .
Figs. 1 and 2.\#151 ; ( From Wilson , " The Cell , etc. , " ed. 2 , 1902 , figs. 25 and 26 ) ; ( A ) resting cell , two centrioles in centrosome ; ( B ) formation of spindle ; ( C , D , E ) further evolution of dumb-bell figure , and disappearance of nuclear wall to free chromosomes ; ( F ) stage of " equatorial plate " ; ( G , H ) splitting of chromosomes and discession of sister-segments ; ( I , 1 ) division of cell and reconstitution of daughter-nuclei .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; After Vejdowsky and Mr\amp ; zek , in 'Arch .
Mikr .
Anat .
, ' vol. 62 , 1903 ; stages of oosperm of Rkynchelmis ( fig. 3 , a,6 ) , approximation and fusion of male and female gametonuclei ; two successive zones of radiate centroplasm showing outside centrospheres ; ( c , d ) " segmentation " figures , stage of equatorial plate .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; After same ; stages of discession of sister-segments of chromosomes , the centro-somes showed " blobbed " conditions .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Microphotograph of same preparation as fig. 3 , c ( Zeiss Ap. 8 mm. , X 400 reduced Jr ) , showing the dumb-bell figure among dark-stained yolk spherules .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; ( Glycerine .
) Current reduced as soon as figure developed .
Anastomoses frequent .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; ( Glycerine .
) After fig. 6 was taken , the magnetising current was again increased ; the lateral chains have drifted inwards and become denser , leaving " Butschli 's spaces " on either side ; numerous interlacings , and good differentiation of asters and spindle .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Glycerine triaster of two opposite poles and core .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; ( Glycerine .
) Tetraster ; two poles and two cores alternating .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; ( Dust .
) Pentaster ; four consecutive unlike poles with core in centre and spindle connections everywhere equivalent to the summation of four triasters .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; ( Dust .
) Tetraster with central mass , or pentaster of four " like surrounding a central opposite pole ; the spindles have been made clearer by sweeping away the intervening dust .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Unipolar figures , after Boveri , showing crescentic centrosome and circular nucleus .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; ( Dust .
) Model of 21 ; a crescentic plate over pole representing the centrosome ; a disk in front of its concavity , the nucleus .
Fig. 14.\#151 ; ( Jelly .
) Torsion figures ; the arrows show direction of torsion .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; ( Dust .
) Model of blobbed centrosomes , with small iron discs in front of the poles ( compare fig. 4 ) .

