]\gt ; ordered for them .
The following Papers read:\mdash ; I. " " The Thermal Radiation from Sun Spots .
Preliminary Notes of Observations made at Daramona , Street , Co. Westmeath , 1893 By W. E. WILSON , M.R.I.A. municated by G. JOHNSTONE STONY , F.R.S. Received January 4 , 1894 .
These observations were made by means of a large heliostat , lent by the Royal Society , and a Boys 's radio-micrometer .
The heliostat consists of a plane silver-on-glass mirror of 15 in .
ture .
It is mounted equatorially , and driven by a clock .
When in use , it is adjusted to reflect the sunIight to the north pole , and , as long as the driving cIock is kept in motion , the beam of light remains fixed in that position .
In the track of this beam , and about 12 .
from the plane mirror , is mounted a concave silver-on-glass mirror of 9 in .
aperture , and about 13 .
focus .
Its axis points to the south } ) so that the cone of rays formed by it strikes the centre of the plane mirror , and a short distance inside the focus .
A small plane mirror mounted on the end of an arm is then so placed as to intercept the cone of rays , and reflect it horizontally into the observatory window ; an achromatic lens enlarges the solar image which is formed on a screen in the room to 4 .
in diameter .
Behind this screen , and standing on a pier of co1lcrete , is mounted t'ne -micromeber .
The aperturo through which radiant heat reaches f , he sensitive is a rouna hole drilled through. .
a thick sneet of brass , and is only 1 mm. in diameter .
A white cardboard screen is placed in iront of the brass one to cut off heat from falling on the latter , and is provided with a hole slightly larger .
beam of lime light is thrown on the mirror of the and cted on to the scale in the usual way .
The diagonal mirror of the heliostat is provided with slow motions in two directions , oved bThus alaced o 1894 .
] The Thermal Radiation from Sum Spots .
of the radio-micrometer , and the driving clock will then keep it there .
The observations are taken in the following manner .
A small screon is placed over the aperture of the radio-micrometer , and the zero position of the spot of li on the scale noted .
The screen is then removed , and the umbra of a sun spot placed on the aperture .
The reading is then taken and entered in column .
The image is then moved , so that a part in ] neighbourhood of the spot , but at the same distance from the centre of the solar disc , is ] aced on the aperture .
This reading is entered in column N. Finally , reading is taken at the centre of the disc , and entered in column C. The throws of the instrument are got by subtracting the figures in columns , and from the zero .
The deflections of the instrument have been experimentally proved to be strictly ) ortional to the amount of radiant heat falling on the thermo-couple .
The following is a typical observation taken August 7 , , of a large sun spot then visible .
The umbra of this spot measnred in .
across on the screen , so that the aperture of the radio-micrometel .
was only covering about of the apparent area of the umbra .
The ratio Five concordant readings gave a mean deflection of for the umbra centre of the sun , which gives for the ratio celltre This spot was at a distance from the centre of the disc of about of the radius .
As the radiation from the ] off from the centre to the edge of the disc , it seemed an interesting point to determine if any change in the ratio of would take place as a spot was carried across the disc by the sun 's rotation .
ff the spot is , as is generally thought , a depression , the absorption of heat ought to ulcrease as it is carried towards the limb , on account of the increased D. R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
85.3 94 .
] The Thermal Radiation from Sun Spots .
The mean of the two photospheric readings he used as a divisor for the umbral reading- He then says , " " The decrement of heat as ws approach the limb is , though not exactly , yet so very nearly , in the same ratio for photosphere and spots , that no correction is needed on this account for the present observations If Langley failed , through want of instrumental means , to notice the difference between the absorption in a spot and the photosphere near the limb , his method would make his umbral readings too hi The mean of twenty observations here equals , against Langley 's .
This is a rious difference , and , I think , can only be accounted for either by the use of superior instl'umental means , or by a possible variation in the radiation of spots in diifereut years of the sun spot cycle .
It is difficult to see how too low a value for umbral radiation colLld be got , whereas too high a one might be found by want of definition and embling in the image , so that some of the penumbral radiation would reaoh the thermo-couple .

