2 .
" Analytical Researches connected with Steiner 's Extension of Malfatti 's Problem .
" By Arthur Cayley , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. J. Sylvester , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 12 , 1852 .
The problem , in a triangle to describe three circles each of them touching the two others and also two sides of the triangle , has been termed after the Italian geometer , by whom it was proposed and solved , Malfatti 's Problem .
The problem to which the autJEor refers as Steiner 's extension of Malfatti 's Problem , is as follows : " To determine three sections of a surface of the second order , each of them touching the two others , and also two of three given sections of the surface of the second order , " a problem proposed in Steiner 's memoir ' Einige Geometrische Betrachtungen , ' Crelle , t. i. The geometrical construction of the problem in question is readily deduced from that given in the memoir just mentioned for a somewhat less general problem , viz. that in which the surface of the second order is replaced by a sphere ; it is for the sake of the analytical deyelopments to which the problem gives rise that the author proposes to resume here the discussion of the problem .
The following is an analysis of the present memoir : § 1 .
Contains a lemma which appears to the author to constitute the foundation of the analytical theory of the sections of a surface of the second order .
§ 2 .
Contains a statement of the geometrical construction of Steiner 's extension of Malfatti 's problem .
§ 3 .
Is a verification , founded on a particular choice of co-ordinates , of the construction in question .
§ 4 .
In this section , referring the surface of the second order to absolutely general co-ordinates , and after an incidental solution of the problem to determine a section touching three given sections , the author obtains the equations for the solution of Steiner 's extension of Malfatti 's problem .
§ 5 .
Contains a separate discussion of a system of equations , including as a particular case the equations obtained in the preceding section .
§§ 6 &amp; 7 .
Contain the application of the formulae for the general system to the equations in § 4 , and the development and completion of the solution .
§ 8 .
Is an extension of some preceding formulae to quadratic functions of any number of variables .

