88 Duration of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours : Further Studies .
By the Hon. R J. Stkutt , F.R.S. ( Received July 19 , 1917 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] In several previous papers , * I have described experiments showing that the luminosity of the spark or arc discharge through gases and metallic vapours lasts for an appreciable length of time after the discharge has ceased to pass , and that the luminous vapour can be removed from the region where the electric current is passing , and still remain luminous , showing the same spectrum as before , though in certain cases some lines of this spectrum fade out sooner than others .
The present paper is a continuation of these studies .
'S 1 .
The Luminous Jet at Very Low Pressures .
Effect of a Transverse Electric Field .
The first experiments to be described were designed to observe the effects at very low gaseous pressures , and with small currents .
The advantage of this is that the luminous particles in the jet are then comparatively free to move under the action of an external force , and their motion in an electrostatic field can be conveniently examined .
Moreover , since the ions are few , they do not disturb the uniformity of the electric field applied for this purpose .
On the other hand , the luminous effects are very faint under these conditions ; this difficulty can partly be met by photography with long exposures , but it is difficult to use the spectroscope .
The discharge passes through the globular vessel on the right ( fig. 1 ) , which was varied in size in different experiments .
Usually , it was .
16 cm .
in diameter , though in some cases much more .
The cathode is the iron disc A , which is drawn up close to the wall of the globe.f The anode of the discharge is the iron disc b , perforated with a 1-mm .
hole in the centre .
This iron disc covers as accurately as may be the end of the narrow glass discharge tube d , sealed on to the globe .
The arrangements for holding the iron disc in position , and making contact to it , are a little complex at first * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 88 , p. 110 ( 1912 ) ; vol. 90 , p. 364 ( 1914 ) ; vol. 91 , p. 92 ( 1914 ) .
t Sometimes a mica washer was interposed to diminish risk of cracking the glass .
i Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
89 sight .
The disc is soldered into the end of a brass tube c , and the glass tube d fits into c , and is continued up to the very end , so that the gaseous discharge can pass to b , but not to any part of c. Electrical contact is made to the further end of c as shown , and airtightness is achieved by the rubber sleeve l , which is in practice sufficiently tight .
GAS INLET MOLECULAR Fig. 1 .
So much for the discharge vessel , in which the luminous gas is generated .
Now for the observation vessel , into which the luminous gas is allowed to stream , and in which it can be subjected to a transverse electrostatic field .
This is a glass tube / , 5 cm .
in diameter , and with its axis perpendicular to the plane of the diagram .
It is prolonged for a* distance of about 8 cm .
in front , and about the same distance behind , the diagram .
The front is closed by a plate glass window , and , behind , the electrical connections to the condenser plates g , h , are brought out .
These plates are carried by an ebonite support behind , which affords a black background.* To supply the current , a continuous source is necessary .
It would be very desirable to have a battery of small storage cells , giving 5000 volts .
No such battery was available , and I used a continuous-current generator , supplied by Messrs. Evershed and Yignoles .
This consists of three high-tension magneto generators , in series , direct driven by a motor .
The commutators of the several machines are so arranged round the axis as to compensate fluctuations of -voltage , and oscillograph tests by the makers show * It has not been thought necessary to show the details of this .
Hon. K. J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of that the variation is not more than \#177 ; 0*22 per cent. But even this gave trouble , and a battery would be much preferable .
The generator can* yield 10 milliamperes at 5000 volts , and the full current output was usually employed . .
When the molecular pump was running , a stream of gas was admitted through m , so as to maintain the pressure in the discharge vessel nearly constant .
The pressure was not measured , but the length of negative dark space was used to control it .
The dark space varied in different experiments from \#163 ; inch ( 6*3 mm. ) to 2 inches ( 51 mm. ) .
The large discharge globe was filled with negative glow , and the cathode rays struck the bottom of it , which became somewhat warm .
The tube d was filled with positive light , right up to the orifice at the far end b. Owing to the small size ( 1 mm. ) of the orifice at b\#166 ; , the outrush from it was rapid , and the outrushing jet of gas remained visibly luminous as it traversed the space between the plates g and A. The luminosity was , however , faint , and , as in the analogous case of the nebulae , its form could be determined far better by photography than by visual observation .
Accordingly , a camera with a rapid lens was mounted in front of the tube / .
Bapid photographic plates were used , and exposures up to one hour were given , both with and without an electrostatic field between the metal plates g , A. The chief difficulty of the experiments is to eliminate stray electric discharges passing through the orifice 5 , and going to earth by the plates g and A , or down the exhaust pipe to the pump .
There is no difficulty in recognising these stray discharges , and distinguishing them from the genuine effects .
The stray discharges are much brighter , and they generally flicker in sympathy with any luminosity that can intermittently find its way round to the back of the cathode .
The particular arrangement of cathode shown , with the disc in contact with the walls of the bulb , was found effective in preventing this .
The trouble is connected , I feel almost certain , with the want of perfect steadiness in the E.M.F. of the generator , which may be regarded as yielding a minute alternating current superposed upon the continuous one .
It is to this minute alternating current that the trouble is attributed .
An additional precaution found useful was to carefully insulate the battery used to maintain an E.M.F. between g and A. The observation tube f in which these are mounted , should not be made of metal .
The ebonite cap e served to prevent the main discharge coming through the orifice and passing to the outside of the disc b and the tube c which carries it .
Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
These various precautions proved perfectly successful in confining the discharge to its proper channel between cathode and anode , and preventing any part of the current from the generator penetrating into f. The gases investigated in this apparatus include hydrogen , oxygen , nitrogen , carbon dioxide , and mercury vapour .
The shape of the luminous jet was very similar in all in the absence of an electric field .
It is seen in Plate 1 , No. 1 , which was obtained with hydrogen ( dark space 1 inch ) .
When , however , the electric field was applied , the behaviour of the jet depended very much on the nature of the gas and on the pressure .
The voltage employed was 160 volts between the plates g and A , which were 13 mm. apart .
The traces of these plates can be distinguished on the photographs , the positive plate being in all cases the lower one .
So far as was observed , voltages less than 160 gave similar results , but less well marked .
Larger voltages were apt to start an arc in the ionised air between g and A , particularly at the lowest pressures .
The current between g and A , when the voltage was on , was not systematically measured , but was of the order of 1 microampere .
This is very small compared with the currents which can be passed through the much more luminous jets distilled from the mercury vacuum arc , as in former experiments.* These latter are of the order of 1 milliampere .
Taking the photographs in order , No. 2 was obtained with hydrogen , dark space | inch ( 6 mm. ) .
Here the bulk of the luminous particles are attracted to the positive plate and are , therefore , to be regarded as negatively electrified .
A few , however , pursue their course undeviated , which indicates that they are electrically neutral .
In No. 3 , hydrogen , dark space | inch ( 13 mm. ) , the luminous particles are practically all negative and the neutral particles have disappeared .
No. 4 , hydrogen , dark space 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) : here a few positive particles have made their appearance .
No. 5 , hydrogen , dark space 2 inches ( 51 mm. ) : the positive particles have markedly increased , though the negative ones still predominate .
It was hardly practicable to work at much lower pressures than this last .
No. 6 , oxygen , dark space , \#163 ; inch ( 6 mm. ) : the negative particles are here somewhat more conspicuous than the positive , but the difference is not great .
No. 7 , oxygen , dark space | inch ( 13 mm. ) and No. 8 , oxygen , dark space 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) : in these the positive and negative particles produce about equal effects .
No. 9 , carbon dioxide , dark space 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) : positive and negative about equally conspicuous .
, * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 91 , p. 92 ( 1914 ) .
VOL. XC1V.\#151 ; A. T 92 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Duration of of No. 10 , nitrogen , dark space 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) : positive particles rather in excess . .
The remaining photographs relate to mercury vapour .
A small quantity of mercury was placed at the bottom of the discharge bulb , and warmed by the cathode rays or by heat externally applied , which was regulated so as to keep the dark space at the desired length .
It was found difficult to maintain steady discharge conditions after long running , when mercury vapour only was present , and all traces of other gas had been removed .
Some trace of other gas had to be present , therefore , though the spectrum of the discharge was always that of mercury , pure and simple .
For this reason it was sometimes necessary to admit a small quantity of air , or to interrupt the exposure , let air into the apparatus for a time , and then re-establish the proper conditions .
No. 11 , mercury , dark space f inch ( 19 mm. ) : negative particles only .
No. 12 , mercury , dark space 1^ inch ( 32 mm. ) : negative particles , with a trace of positive .
, ^o .
13 , mercury , dark space 1| inch ( 38 mm. ) : negative particles , with some positive .
The general result then , of these experiments is to show that the issuing stream of gas always contains luminous particles , negatively electrified , which may be deflected sideways by a transverse electrostatic field .
Sometimes also it contains luminous positive particles which may carry as much of the luminosity as the negative ones , or even more .
The tendency of a lowering of pressure in the discharge vessel is to increase the number of positive particles .
But the positive particles come into prominence much sooner in oxygen , nitrogen or carbon dioxide than they do in hydrogen or mercury vapour .
It is difficult to see how these experiments can be reconciled with the idea that the light is due to recombination of positive and negative ions .
If this were so , it would be expected that a separation of the two kinds of ions in a transverse field would lead to the extinction of all luminosity .
Instead of this the two kinds of ion , separated by the field into distinct streams , show the same aggregate luminosity as before .
Sometimes the luminosity is all in that stream which goes to the positive plate .
Sometimes both streams are about equally luminous .
The streams lose their luminosity when they are discharged by contact with the electrified plates .
For these reasons I regard the luminous centres as being excited before they have left the discharge tube .
For the only process that can be supposed to excite them afterwards , namely , ionic recombination , seems to be excluded by the considerations just given .
This view , to which I have inclined before i Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
in the interpretation of kindred experiments , * no doubt presents some difficulties .
The evidence brought forward in my former paper has been criticised . !
I hope to return to the discussion later , in the light of further experimental evidence .
The electrostatic conditions require that positive and negative particles should be present in equal numbers in the jet , if , as in these experiments , no current is carried down to the pump .
In cases where one , say negative , sign shows in excess in the luminosity , it is not to be concluded that the equivalent of positive particles are not present , but rather that they are not luminous .
S2 .
High-Pressure Experiments .
Jet in Hydrogen .
Thinning of the , Broadened Spectrum Lines .
The experiments which have been described so far in this paper are carried out at very low gaseous densities , and the luminous effects are very feeble\#151 ; too feeble for easy spectroscopic examination .
I come now to some kindred results obtained by working at much higher pressures , pressures high enough in fact to give what may be called a spark rather than a vacuum discharge .
The method is a slight modification of one which I described formerly !
A spark passes between iron wires 1 cm .
apart in a silica tube of 1*5 mm. inside diameter .
Half way between the iron wires a lateral hole through the silica wall allows of the outflow of gas from the region of the spark to the space outside , which is in connection with a power air pump ( see tig .
2 ) .
Any desired gas can be admitted at a regulated pressure to the spark region , flowing in through the annular space between the silica tube Fig. 2 .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 91 , p. 98 ( 1914 ) .
t Child , ' Phil. Mag. ' [ VI ] , vol. 31 , p. 139 ( February , 1916 ) .
] 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 88 , p. 110 ( 1913 ) .
94 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of and one of the iron wires , as shown .
The lateral hole in the silica tube is so small that it allows a considerable difference of pressure to be maintained between the space outside the tube and the spark-gap inside .
The hole usually was 0*7 mm. diameter at the smaller end , tapering slightly outwards , as it passed through the walls of the tube 1 mm. thick.* The most interesting results with this arrangement were obtained with hydrogen and nitrogen .
Hydrogen gave far more striking effects with the condensed than with the uncondensed discharge .
The best result was obtained with about 17 cm .
pressure inside the tube , the pressure outside being reduced to 2 or 3 mm. In this case a tongue of flame of a beautiful rosy colour , and about 9 mm. long , was seen issuing from the hole .
The photograph , Plate 1 , No 14 , shows the spark itself , together with this exuding tongue of flame ; the latter is , however , to a great extent lost in the glare of the spark itself .
By covering the silica tube with a thin brass tube provided with a hole to correspond with that in the silica , as shown in fig. 2 , this glare can be suppressed , and the exuding luminosity can then be photographed alone ( see Plate 1 , JSTo .
15 , where the outline of the tube has been ruled in by hand , in its proper position relative to the photographed jet ) .
The spectrum of this exuded jet is of interest .
Where the spectrum of a hydrogen discharge is examined directly , the Balmer series is invariably mixed up with lines of the secondary spectrum , which produce a luminous background , specially confusing at the end of the series , where the series lines are faint and crowded .
In the exuded jet of luminosity , the background of the Balmer series is quite black , and the series has been photographed to the tenth member , quite unconfused by secondary spectrum .
The method might be of advantage to anyone taking up the further study of the hydrogen spectrum .
The hydrogen used must be quite free from nitrogen , or the great cyanogen band at X 388 is sure to appear and obliterate the end of the Balmer series .
As is well known , the Balmer series lines in the condensed spark are greatly widened by increase of pressure .
It was of interest to compare the width of these lines in the spark and in the exuded luminous jet , for the pressure of the luminous gas is much reduced in passing into the latter .
Would the lines remain broad or not when the gas was excited in a spark of relatively high pressure , and the luminosity observed in a space of low pressure ?
Experiment proved that the lines become narrow .
The sparking tube was covered with a metal screen , having two small holes .
One of these allowed * These holes were drilled with a steel wire , fixed in a small vertical drilling machine^ and fed with carborundum and oil .
Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
the jet to pass out as before , the other , its axis at right angles to the first , allowed a small part of the spark to be seen simultaneously with the jet .
Both the spark and the jet were focussed on the slit of a small spectrograph .
No. 16 shows the result .
The narrow spectrum of thick lines is due to the spark .
The long thin lines above are from the luminous jet .
Stark has given reasons for believing that the broadening is due to the electric field of neighbouring atoms , and Merton and Nicholson have produced strong confirmatory evidence .
It is , therefore , not surprising that the removal of these to a greater mean distance , when the gas issues from the hole and expands , should cause the lines to become narrow .
This does not settle the question of whether the identical luminous centres in the spark survive as such after emergence into the jet or not .
If the experiment had given the opposite result it would have been more instructive on this point .
S 3 .
The Jet in Nitrogen .
Periodic Structure .
Nitrogen has given interesting results in the same form of experiment .
In this case , however , the simple induction coil discharge without a condenser gives much more striking effects than the condensed discharge .
Using the same sized silica tube as before , a long thin jet of the same reddish-orange colour as the spark itself is seen emerging from the hole and traceable as far as 5 cm .
from it .
In this experiment the pressure was 155 mm. inside the tube , and 7 mm. outside.* No. 17 is a photograph of the spark and jet .
Nos. 18 and 19 are photographs of the jet only , on various scales of enlargement , the spark being covered over so that the glare from it is avoided .
The most striking features of this jet , both visually and photographically , are the alternations of light and comparative darkness which may be seen along its length .
Five or six of these can easily be counted , but they become less distinct the farther out we go from the orifice .
They remain absolutely steady in position in spite of any irregularity in the working of the induction coil .
Their appearance is at first sight reminiscent of the striations along the positive column of a vacuum discharge , but in reality they have nothing whatever to do with this.f * The pressure inside was determined by a manometer attached to a side tube attached to the left-hand side of the silica sparking tube .
By inadvertence , this has not been represented in fig. 2 .
t If by a faulty arrangement of the experiment , any stray discharge occurs in the outer vessel , it may , indeed , issue from the same hole as the jet , but escapes to one side , out of the relatively dense stream of gas , as soon as possible , following any convenient cMH'ved path .
The jet , on the other hand , takes a path confined to the axis of the hole 96 Hon. B. J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of The periodic structure of the jet is of hydrodynamic origin .
It has been shown by the investigations of Mach* and Salcher and Emdenf that a* high pressure jet of air escaping into the atmosphere shows , when photographed by the shadow method , a periodic structure very closely analogous to the structure seen in photographs 17 , 18/ 19 .
For a full discussion reference may be made to a paper by Lord Eayleigh .
J But the general explanation of this effect is as follows:\#151 ; The air or nitrogen issuing from the hole expands against the lesser pressure of the surrounding air .
As in any other case of a vibratory system , its inertia causes it to overshoot the mark , and expansion continues beyond the point at which the pressures are equalised .
There is then a contraction again to something like the original density , and so on alternately .
Simultaneously , the mass of air under consideration is carried forward , and thus thb alternating variations of density are exhibited along the length of the jet .
The case is analogous to that of the vibrations under surface tension of a liquid jet escaping from an elliptical orifice .
It is not difficult to understand why the structure of the jet revealed in such experiments as those of Mach and Salcher and Emden should be visible in the self-luminous nitrogen jet , for variations in the density of the gas are accompanied by variations in the density of the luminous centres which it contains , with corresponding variations in the intrinsic brightness , and even apart from this the luminous condition allows the alternate swellings and contractions to be followed .
According to Emden s empirical results ( loc. cit. ) , the wave-length of the periodic structure is found to be 0-88 d. / V pi where d is the diameter of the nozzle , p the high pressure , and p\ the low pressure into which the jet emerges .
With the values above given , this becomes 2 mm. A measurement of photographs of the luminous jet gave the wave-length as 1*8 mm. , in sufficient agreement with the value calculated from Emden 's formula .
It must be remembered that this formula was obtained under pressure conditions widely different .
Emden 's jet discharged into the atmosphere at 760 mm. The self-luminous jet discharged into a space where the pressure was 7 mm. from which it issues .
If the silica tube is rotated about its own axis , the jet rotates with it , as if rigidly attached at right angles , and may in this way be made to impinge on the glass window of the apparatus .
* ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 41 , p. 144 ( 1890 ) .
+ 1 Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 69 , pp. 264 , 426 ( 1899 ) .
X ' Phil. Mag.,5 vol. 32 , p. 177 ( 1916 ) . .
) Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
97 It will not fail to be noticed that the hydrogen jet ( Plate 1 , Nos. 14 and 15 ) shows nothing of these periodic phenomena .
The jar discharge , with its sudden explosive character , probably produces a turbulence which is fatal to the steady conditions of motion required .
Nitrogen is the only gas in which striking luminouS jet phenomena at relatively high pressures have been obtained , using the uncondensed discharge , thus it is the only one in which it has been possible to observe the periodic phenomena by this method.* If the gas pressure is considerably reduced by checking the supply of nitrogen , the jet remains essentially the same , but loses its periodic structure .
The induction coil with break is the best source of current .
The 5000-volt generator hardly supplies a large enough* E.M.F. , while a high-tension transformer , with alternating supply , makes the electrodes in the confined space too hot .
S 4 .
Spectrum of the Nitrogen Jet .
Gomparism with Active Nitrogen .
So far , the nitrogen jet has been considered in relation to its hydrodynamic relations .
Passing to the spectroscopic side , the jet is observed to have exactly the same tint as the spark from which it originates , and its spectrum shows exactly the same bands as the spark , in the same relative intensity .
These are the groups known as the first , second , and third positive nitrogen groups .
It is important to notice that , in spite of some superficial resemblances , the jet here described has nothing to do with active nitrogen .
The latter , it will be remembered , is manifested in a luminosity which lasts several seconds , or even minutes , after discharge through the gas has ceased .
Let us compare this with the present case .
The jet issues from the side hole in the silica tube with a velocity comparable to the velocity of sound .
Since the distance for which it is traceable under favourable conditions is some 2 inches ( 5 cm .
) , the time for which the luminosity lasts is of the order of 1/ 6000 of a second .
Thus the duration of the light is of quite another order of magnitude from that of the active nitrogen glow .
Secondly , the light is spectroscopically quite different from that of active nitrogen .
Let us suppose that we are dealing with gas of Ordinary purity , like that used in the present experiments , not absolutely free from traces of oxygen compounds , then the following Table shows which sets of bands are present in the jet and which in active nitrogen .
* Something similar has , however , been observed in mercury vapour tiy Matthies , ' Verhand .
Deut .
Phys. Gesell .
, ' vol. 12 , p. 754 ( 1910 ) .
Hon. It .
J. Strutt .
Duration of Luminosity of Group of bands .
Spectral range .
In nitrogen jet .
In active nitrogen .
1st positive ... 2nd positive / 3 group* ... 3rd positive Red , yellow , green . .
Blue , violet , near ultra-violet .
Near ultra-violet .
Far ultra-violet .
\#166 ; Complete set present .
Present .
Absent .
Present .
A small and peculiar selection alone present .
Absent .
Present .
Present .
It must be emphasised that those groups entered as " present " are very strong , and those entered " absent " are entirely invisible on the photographs The distinction between the two spectra is not one of degree , but of kind .
It may be asked , however , what has become of the active nitrogen which one might expect to b , e generated in this experiment .
The reply is that there is very little of it , the uncondensed discharge being unfavourable for its production ; and that what there is hangs around the jet in the form of a very diffuse and feebly luminous cloud , occupying a large volume , and scarcely visible in the presence of the much more luminous jet .
When air is substituted for nitrogen , the jet becomes much shorter and less bright ; it does not however disappear entirely , as active nitrogen does .
S 5 .
Summary .
1 .
The behaviour of jets of luminous gas flowing away from the region of discharge at a low gaseous pressure , has been investigated , using the principal permanent gases , also mercury vapour .
In a transverse electrostatic field , the luminosity is deflected , part of it in most cases going to the positive plate , and part to the negative .
But in hydrogen when the pressure is not very low , nearly the whole of the luminosity is deflected to the positive plate , a small part remaining undeflected .
As the pressure is reduced , an increasing part of the luminosity goes to the negative plate .
Similar results are observed in mercury vapour .
2 .
Further observations are recorded on these jets at higher pressures , arranging a spark discharge so that the gas can flow out from it through an orifice into a sustained vacuum .
With hydrogen ( condensed discharge ) the exuded jet of luminosity , about 9 mm. long , shows the Balmer series .
The discharge spectrum shows widened lines .
These become narrow as the luminous gas emerges .
3 .
Nitrogen in the same arangement , with an uncondensed discharge , shows a jet with periodic swellings similar to those observed by Mach and Salcher and Eniden when a jet of compressed air , examined by the shadow method , * See Fowler and Strutt , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ A , vol. 85 , p. 377 ( 1911 ) .
Strutt .
Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours .
escapes into the open .
The wave-length agrees with that to be anticipated from their experiments .
4 .
This nitrogen jet luminosity is not to be confused in any way with active nitrogen .
The time for which it endures is of quite a different order of magnitude , and the spectrum is essentially different .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 1 .
( Photographs Nos. 1 to 13 are low-pressure effects .
Scale , slightly more than half natural size .
) I Fan-shaped jet of luminosity , hydrogen , 1-inch ( 25 mm. ) dark space .
No electric field .
( Nos. 2 to 13 show similar jets in an electric field .
) 2 .
Hydrogen , \#163 ; inch ( 6 mm. ) dark space .
Negative and neutral luminous particles .
3 .
Hydrogen , \ inch ( 13 mm. ) dark space .
Negative luminous particles only .
4 .
Hydrogen , 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) dark space .
Negative luminous particles , with a few positive .
5 .
Hydrogen , 2 inch ( 51 mm. ) dark space .
Negative luminous particles , with a considerable proportion of positive .
6 .
Oxygen , J inch ( 6 mm. ) dark space .
Negative luminous particles , somewhat more conspicuous than positive .
7 .
Oxygen , inch ( 13 mm. ) dark space .
Negative and positive about equally conspicuous .
8 .
Oxygen , 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) dark space .
Negative and positive again appeal ' equally .
9 .
Carbon dioxide , 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) dark space .
Positive and negative appear equally .
10 .
Nitrogen , 1 inch ( 25 mm. ) dark space .
Positive luminous particles rather in excess .
11 .
Mercury vapour , f inch ( 19 mm. ) dark space .
Negative only .
12 .
Mercury vapour , 1| inch ( 32 mm. ) dark space .
Negative luminous particles , with a few positive .
13 .
Mercury , 1| inch ( 38 mm. ) dark space .
Negative luminous particles , with some positive .
( Photographs 14 to 19 refer to effects at higher pressures ( several mm. of mercury ) .
14 .
Hydrogen spark and jet .
One and a half times natural size .
15 .
Hydrogen jet , same as 14 , but spark screened off .
16 .
Spectrum of hydrogen spark and jet , showing thinning of Balmer series lines when the jet emerges .
The lines beginning from the left are By Hfi , He .
17 .
Nitrogen spark and jet , showing periodic structure .
About one and a half times natural size .
18 .
Nitrogen jet only , showing periodic structure .
About two and a half times natural size .
19 .
The same , enlarged to about five times natural size .

