An Extract of a Letter Written to the Publisher from Plymouth Novem .
2 .
1669 .
by William Durston Dr. of Physic ; concerning the Death of the Bigg-breasted Woman ( discoursed of in Numb. 52 .
) together with what was thereupon observed in her Body .
Sir , I Thank you for yours , which by reason of my absence came not to my hands till this day .
Elizabeth Travers dyed on Thursday night , October 21 .
The next morning I sent for a Surgeon , and some others to be present at the opening , and taking off of her Breasts ; though we only took off one , viz. the biggest , which was the left , and having weighed it , we found it of Sixty four pounds weight .
Upon the opening of it , ( which we made in several places ) we could find neither Water , nor Cancerous humors , nor any thing vicious , more than the prodigious bigness ; and the Tubuli and Parenchymous flesh were purely white and solid , and no other than what we see in the soundest Breasts of Women , or the best Udders of other Animals .
She had lost her stomach and rest several weeks before , and made great complaints of her Breasts from their great distension ; and her whole Body was exceedingly emaciated .
I have sent you enclosed one measure , which was the Breadth of her two Breasts ( as she was laid out on a Table being dead ; ) I mean , from the further end of the one to the other ; which you 'll find three foot two Inches and an half ; and another measure , showing the Circumference of the Breasts long-wise , viz. four foot , and near four inches ; and a third , giving the Circumference of the Breadth , viz. three foot four inches and an half .
The right Breast we took not off , but we guess , it weighed forty pounds .
I did some weeks since begin a Salivation with her , which lessened her Breasts in circumference some inches ; but she proving not conformable , I durst not proceed to keep up the flux , but was forced to desist .
But she was wonderfully revived afterwards for sometime .
She being weary of that course , I then caused a Caustic to be applied ; upon which the Eschar falling off , yet nothing issued out of the Breast .
Then I caused an Incision-knife to be used , and made an Incision two inches and an half deep ( supposing the Caustic had not wrought deep enough ) but it was to no more purpose ,

