26 Prof. F. 0 .
Bower .
Yal Bedretto ( All ' Acqua , 5265 feet ) .
The plants were exceedingly abundant in this part of the valley , both on the lower grass slopes and close to the stream ; in both places the great majority belonged to the hairy type .
Intermediates of the more hairy kind occurred here and there , generally in patches .
The very smooth type was not common .
Yal Canaria ( Airolo , about 3900 feet ) .
Here the plants , which were only moderately abundant on the grass slopes , were all hairy .
Yalley of the Phone ( at the foot of the glacier ) .
A few plants were growing on the shingle in the river bed , all very hairy .
Yalley of the Rhone ( Ulrichen , 4380 feet ) .
Only a very few plants were found , all very hairy .
Yalley of the Rhone ( Eginen Thai ) .
Plants numerous , both glabrous and hairy occurring together ; a few of the hairier forms of intermediates were also found .
Yal d'Anniviers and neighbourhood of Berisal ( Simplon ) .
According to Mr. Bateson 's observations in the preceding year Biscutella plants were abundant in both these localities ; in the former all the plants were very hairy , in the latter the hairy type predominated , but some hairy intermediates were also found .
" Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
Part III .
Marattiacese .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Regius Professor ot Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Received May 27 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir , of which this is an abstract , deals with the sori of all the four living genera of Marattiaceoe ; the development has been traced in Angiopteris and Marattiafrom the earliest stages to maturity , in Dancea and Kaulfussia from such early condition as the material would permit .
Some of the results from Dancea have been already submitted to the Society in a preliminary statement.* One result of the investigation has been to demonstrate , as regards their development , the substantial unity of type of the sporangia in the four genera .
In all of them a single " superficial parent cell " of prismatic form is to be recognised embedded in the massive spoi^an-gium when young , not in a central position , but directed obliquely * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 141 .
Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
27 towards the centre of the sorus .
By periclinal division this forms internally the archesporium , externally that part of the wall where dehiscence takes place .
The tapetum arises , typically in them all , from the cells surrounding the archesporium .
The dehiscence is in all by a slit in a radial plane , which may widen to a circular pore in Dancea .
In those sori where the sporangia are united laterally there is no annulus ; it is present only where the sporangia are separate , as in Angiopteris .
An interesting feature is disclosed by estimates of the potential spore-production of the single average sporangium in the four genera ; the results in round numbers are , in Angiopteris 1,450 , in Dancea 1,750 , in Marattia 2,500 , in Kaidfussia 7,850 .
It is to be remembered that the usual numbers in Leptosporangiate ferns are 48\#151 ; 64 ; in some Leptosporangiate ferns ( ) the number may rise to 500 .
I have ascertained in Gleichenia , however , that the number may be as high as in Angiopteris .
This large potential output of spores goes parallel with the broad base of the sporangia ; in fact , the Eusporaugiate condition is that best adapted for maturing large numbers of spores in the individual loculus .
Frequent deviations from the type have , however , been observed , as well as variations of size and mode of segmentation of the sporangia , and it is not possible in certain cases to refer the whole sporogenous tissue of one sporangium to a single parent cell .
A special study of the irregularities has been made in , in which genu 's they are most marked ; incomplete septa are frequent , and the sporangia are of very unequal size .
The main features have already been noted in the preliminary statement on that genus , where it has been pointed out that comparison of the details with those of the septate anthers of some Angiosperms shows that there is a remarkable resemblance between the two cases .
Similar irregularities have been noted , though less commonly , in , and , and rarely in Angiopteris .
Those fossil Marattiaceas which are best known as to the details of the sorus have been compared , and the substantial similarity of the sori in certain cases to those of the modern genera recognised .
The facts from fossils and from the modern Marattiaceae have been made the basis for a fresh discussion of the theoretical question , whether the synangium is or is not a result of coalescence of sporangia ?
It is concluded that the palaeophytological evidence leaves the question open as to the priority of existence of forms with synangia , or with separate sporangia , in the JVlarattiaceae .
Notwithstanding that writers of authority have treated the question as decided , that the synangia are a result of fusion of distinct sporangia , it is held with some persistence that it is still open ; the palaeophytological evidence is inconclusive , while the comparative evidence from the living 28 Mr. C. S. Tomes .
On Development of genera will not only accord with , but appears actually to support a view of septation .
For the analogy with septate anthers , where septation must have occurred , and the similarity between the details of these and those in Dancea , and especially the partial septations in both , make it appear probable that in this genus progressive septation has taken place .
It is thought probable that progressive septation has been a feature , at least where the sori are elongated , as in Dancea .
But the question is left over for future discussion whether or not a similar septation , rather than coalescence , may be accountable also for the origin in the first instance of a circular sorus with a plurality of sporangia united together as in Asterotheca , or in Pecopteris unita .
" On the Development of Marsupial and other Tubular Enamels , with Notes upon the Development of Enamel in General .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. , F.R.S. Received July 12 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) It was pointed out by my father , the late Sir John Tomes , that the enamel of marsupials was peculiar in that in the whole class , with the solitary exception of the Wombat , the enamel is freely penetrated by tubes which enter it from the dentine , and are continuous with the dentinal tubes at the junction of the two tissues .
This character is met with sporadically in other mammals\#151 ; for example , in the Jerboa among rodents , in the Shrew among insectivora , and notably in the Hyrax , in which animal the free penetration makes its enamel look quite like that of a marsupial .
Whilst there is a large literature upon the development of ordinary enamel , little or nothing has been written about that of tubular enamels .
The outermost portion of marsupial enamel is always devoid of tubes , and the extent to which the tube system exists varies greatly in different members of the group , so that the same enamel organ is obviously capable of forming either tubular enamel or enamel with solid prisms .
Moreover , the sporadic reappearance of tubular enamels amongst mammals who have for the most part lost this character , and its occasional occurrence in a rudimentary condition as an abnormality in man , point to its not originating in any manner fundamentally different from that of ordinary enamel development ; and it is claimed that the study of its development in marsupials affords the clue to the real nature of enamel development in all animals .

