1873 .
] Mr. W. N. Hartley a new Chromic Oxalate .
November 1873 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council proposed for election was read as follows :\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , M.D. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. a . .
f Prof. George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Secretaries .
{ prof_ Hemy Hudey\gt ; LL D , _ Ph. D. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Prof. Alexander William Williamson , Ph. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Sir George Biddell Airy , K.C.B. , M.A. ; Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart , M.A. , D.C.L. ; Prof. Arthur Cayley , LL. D. ; John Evans , Sec. G.S. , F.S.A. ; Daniel Hanbury , Treas .
L.S. ; Nevil Story Maskelyne , M.A. ; Prof. James Clerk Maxwell , M.A. ; C. Watkins Merrifield , Hon. Sec. I.N. A. ; Joseph Prestwich , V.P.G.S. ; Andrew Crombie Ramsay , LL. D. ; Rear-Admiral G. H. Richards , C.B. ; Prof. George Rolleston , M.D. , M.A. ; Prof. J. S. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. ; William Sharpey , M.D. , LL. D. ; Francis Sibson , M.D. ; Major-Gen .
R. Strachey , R.E. , C.S.I. Dr. Aitken , Dr. Paget , and Lord Rayleigh were admitted into the Society .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , Baron Jean Baptiste Julien D'Omalius d'Halloy of Brussels , Georg Adolph Erman of Berlin , Asa Gray of Cambridge , Massachusetts , Pranz Gustav Jakob Henle of Gottingen , Charles Hermite of Paris , and Otto Struve of Pulkowa , were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Optical Properties of a new Chromic Oxalate .
" By Walter Noel Hartley , F.C.S. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , King 's College , London .
Communicated by Dr. Gladstone , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1873 .
With the view of making a series of spectroscopic observations on coloured salts , I have lately prepared many salts of chromium , and have been successful in obtaining some interesting new substances , one of which is remarkable alike in its chemical constitution , its fine crystalline cha500 Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
[ Nov. 27 , KCa " 1 racter , and its optical properties .
It has the formula !
\#166 ; 3C204.4H20 , and must therefore be called potassio-calcium chromic oxalate .
Preparation.\#151 ; a. By mixing the blue potassium chromic oxalate with calcium chloride : the solutions should be dilute and warm .
The salt is deposited in crystals .
| 3C2(04)+Ca"Cl2 =K\ 3C2 ( 04)+2K Cl. b. By boiling a solution of red potassium chromic oxalate with freshly precipitated calcium oxalate , a solution is made which deposits the new salt , after the following equation ; \#151 ; Cr~ } 2(0,0 , )+(VC , O , = K\#163 ; \#174 ; " .
j 3(Ca O , ) .
\ The former method is preferable .
It was noticed that the crystals became opaque and of a greenish-violet tint when dried over sulphuric acid , though their general appearance is of a brilliant greenish-black lustre .
A basinful of crystals was then divided , one portion being dried by pressure between folds of filter-paper , and the other by standing in a desiccator for thirty hours ; the difference in appearance previously noticed became evident .
Desiccation in vacuo over sulphuric acid , as well as heating to 100 ' C. , renders these crystals anhydrous ; and they have then a decidedly violet colour , lyith a silky lustre ; exposure to the air even while being weighed renders them green again , the green tint commencing at the edges , which shows that they readily reabsorb water .
The analysis of the salt was made by fusing it with 2| times its weight of a mixture of equal parts of sodium carbonate and potassium nitrate .
The filtrate was in some cases neutralized with acetic acid , acidulated with nitric acid , and the chromium precipitated as mercurous chromate , and ignited as usual ; in other cases the chromate was reduced with a drop or two of an alcoholic solution of sulphurous oxide , and the sesquioxide precipitated by ammonia .
The potassium was estimated by fusing the salt alone , dissolving in hydrochloric acid , and precipitating with platinic chloride* Analysis .
Weight of salt .
Dried over grin .
H2 S04 .
Hj O lost .
j ... ... ... ... . .
1 0-961 3*9 per cent. II ... ... ... . . . .
1 0960 4*0 " Heated to 100 ' C. H2 O lost .
Total water .
X. ... ... 0-879 12*1 per cent. 16-00 per cent. H. ... .
... 0-879 12-1 " 16-10 " 1873 .
] Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
501 I. II .
III .
IV .
grm. grm. grm. grin .
Weight of salt taken . .
1*953 1*78 1*34 1*00 Found .
Ca C03 ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-4163 0-3797 0-2842 ----Cr 033 ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-3062 0-2823 0*1942 ----- k !
.* ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
... . .
... ... ... .
... ... .
0-08* Percentage composition .
I. II .
III .
IV .
Ca ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
8-52 8-53 8-48 ----Cr203 ... ... ... ... ... ... 15-67 15-85 15-13 16-38 H203 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
16-0 16-1 16-0 ----K* ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
... ... . .
... ... ... 8-00 Formula of salt K Ca " j 3^ 0i .
4H2 O , Found .
Calculated .
I. II .
HI .
Ca ... ... ... . .
= 8-56 8-48 8-52 8-53 K ... ... ... . .
= 8-35 8-00 ---- ------------- Cr ... ... ... . .
= 11-13 11-15 10-57 10-63 HaO ... ... = 15-41 16-00 16-00 16-10 Solubility\#151 ; 1 part of the salt dissolved in about 22 of water at 16 ' C. , and in 5 parts at 100'C .
It may be noticed that the water found is a little above the calculated amount , just so much in fact as the chromium is too low ; this is not to be wondered at when the singular nature of the salt is taken into account , a salt which at the ordinary atmospheric pressure and temperature loses 4 per cent. , or 1 molecule of water in dry air\#151 ; a substance that can be dried only by crushing between bibulous paper and exposure in an open place to cool air .
The solution , of a greenish-purple colour , when boiled becomes more decidedly green , and assumes its original colour on cooling .
A little calcium oxalate generally separates out during recrystallization , The salt is exceedingly stable , and it crystallizes with the greatest ease from hot or cold , acid or neutral solutions , and can be precipitated in the crystalline state .
It is almost insoluble in strong hydrochloric acid .
The following are the properties of the crystals:\#151 ; When deposited slowly they are formed in clusters , the individual crystals being never more than -^-5- of an inch in thickness and \ an inch long .
They possess a greenish-black lustre , and apparently consist of prisms with a rectangular base ; they reflect white light .
From hot solutions much smaller crystals deposit ; their colour is olive-green in daylight , and * Calculated from 0*424 grm. of platinum .
502 Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
[ Nov. 27 , beetroot-red by gaslight .
Under like circumstances the powdered substance is of the same colour .
Minute crystals , examined in daylight by the microscope , are of a pale green tint ; fragments of large crystals coarsely powdered appear of almost all tints , rich green and blue prevailing .
Larger crystals , deposited by spontaneous evaporation of a cold solution , appear of two colours chiefly , a beautiful blue and rich green , with sometimes a tinge of deep red , their appearance being exceedingly charming .
Occasionally crystals of a good size , seen by reflected light , appear of two colours ; this has been observed in a mass of crystals removed from a glass dish , where they had grown in contact with the glass ; distinct blue and green patches of colour were seen intermingled .
These crystals most likely had not true surfaces , but were covered with smaller crystals , so that light reflected from the large facets became colour by transmission through small crystals .
A quantity of the salt crystallized in isolated prisms in the bottom of a beaker glass was examined by looking directly at the sun ; thus viewed they were ruby-red ; on turning away from the direct rays at an angle of 30 ' they appeared green ; and on moving still further round , some of them appeared blue .
We may thus vary the colour of the crystals by admitting white light to them at different angles .
An experiment was made in order to ascertain whether viewing a crystal through different axes produced alterations in colour .
It was not easy to see how this could be done , because a crystal of an inch thickness would certainly be too large to transmit light sufficiently well .
I devised , however , the following plan , and successfully overcame the difficulty .
Taking a quill tube of good glass free from streaks and bubbles , I drew this out sharply to a capillary size , and ran a minute crystal into it with a little of the mother-liquor ; by blowing into the tube the liquid was slowly expelled , while the crystal was securely wedged into the fine end , and so remained stationary when the tube was turned over .
To make a stage for holding this , a glass slip had a cork bored with a hole cemented to it ; the tube being passed through the hole , could be turned over without displacement from the field of the microscope .
In the first observation the crystal looked opaque ; but here and there an indistinct red light shone through on turning it ; a green tint with a shade of red next made its appearance , the green became full and brilliant ; opacity next succeeded , and then blue with a tinge of green ; finally the full beautiful blue colour .
In each revolution of a crystal there were two periods of blue , two of green , and two of opacity with a tinge of red .
When a crystal so small as to be quite transparent in any position was examined in this manner , it was seen that purely red light was transmitted through its edges .
It is thus rendered very evident that the play of colour is due to pleochroism , or the property which , by virtue of double refraction , some minerals possess of transmitting light of different tints through their different crystalline axes .
I have examined many well-crystallized salts in the manner already described , and there are none which can compare with potassio-calcium chromic oxalate .
The 1873 .
] Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
platinocyanides , most beautiful crystalline coloured bodies , attracted my attention ; but their prominent properties are the converse of my salt ; they reflect two or three different coloured rays , but transmit only one .
Such salts are:\#151 ; Magnesium platinoeyanide ... ... ... ... Mg Cy2 .
Pt Cy2.7H2 O. Barium platinoeyanide ... ... ... ... ... Ba Cy2 .
Pt Cy2.7H2 O , Potassio-magnesium platinoeyanide ... .
Mg K2 .
Cy4.2Pt Cy2.7Ha O. Barium chloro-platinocyanide ... ... . .
5(PtCy4)BaPtCy4Cl2urH20 .
The following I have also examined :\#151 ; G-reen salt of Magnus ... ... . .
2NH3 .
Pt Cl2 , Boseo-cobaltic chloride ... ... Co Cl3.5H3 N .
H2 O , and Claudet 's salts ... ... ... ... . .
Co Cl3.5H3 N. Hg Cl2 .
Haidinger* , however , who examined the magnesium platinoeyanide , found that although to the unaided eye the light transmitted was of a pure carmine-red , yet the dichroscopic lens showed that the colour of thin crystals was distinctly separated into crimson-red and a tint less blue .
The two axes of thin crystals give spectra which do not differ from each other materially , nor from the solution of this salt in particular , nor from chromium salts generally .
X noticed that solutions of the salt , when left to evaporate spontaneously in porcelain dishes , frequently formed crystalline crusts , which adhered to the sides for an inch or so above the liquid ; and it occurred to me that such crusts woidd serve admirably for spectroscopic observations , isolated crystals being too small .
Having purposely prepared a good quantity of the salt in this state , portions were selected , mounted , and examined with th\#169 ; microspectroscope in brilliant sunlight , with the result that three different spectra were observed .
The accompanying sketch shows the relative positions of the transmitted rays .
Red 3 U| i 1 1 1 m Green . .
i l M 1 1 i \#166 ; . ?
Blue \#166 ; I | j WM i TT 1 0-2 0-2 5-6 5 0-2 6-5-9 The red tint , seen when looking at the diagonal to the base of the prism , consisted of one red luminous band only between 0 and 2 on * Pogg .
Ann. vol. xyii .
p. 89 .
504 Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
[ Nov. 27 , Sorby 's scale .
The green rays passing through a short axis consisted of the red band 0-2 , and one green band between 5 and 6-5 , the blue rays passing at right angles to the former being situated between 6*5 and 9 .
Very frequently the blue rays were associated with the red band 0-2 .
If these spectra be combined , the absorption-spectrum common to the solution and to thin crystals is produced .
Examined with a Nicol 's prism and with similar crystals used as analyzers , it was found that this substance is a powerful polarizer .
There is a marked difference when the blue and the green rays are examined with a Nicol 's prism , the former being much more completely polarized than the latter , so that in rotating the Nicol there is an alternation of brilliant blue and perfect darkness\#151 ; if the crystal be thin , of blue and reddish green .
If , however , a crystal transmitting green rays of equal brilliancy be examined , the light is not cut off , but only obscured .
In like manner , if both analyzer and polarizer consist of these crystals , when in a position at right angles to each other , the effect of course is the same as that produced by a Nicol 's prism , viz. only green rays are transmitted .
The green ray is more strongly refracted , and at the same time more absorbed than the blue , in accordance with Babinet 's law ( Pogg .
'Annalen , ' vol. xli .
p. 116 ) .
This was made evident from their apparent change of colour when white light was admitted to them at different angles .
These observations account for the facts already noticed\#151 ; namely that minute crystals appear green even under the microscope , and also that the powder is green .
Let us take haphazard a number of crystals , or fragments of crystals , lying in all directions over each other , and it is easy to see that no blue rays can be transmitted ; for where two crystals cross , the light transmitted is green .
The green rays being more absorbed ( that is to say , travelling with less facility ) than the blue , it is possible to have a blue crystal so thin as to transmit white light through one axis , while green rays would pass at right angles through the other ; under these circumstances the crystals would appear green .
The red colour seen by gaslight is of course due to the suppression of the green and blue by the yellow illumination .
I find that Sir David Brewster* , and also Ilaidinger , have examined the blue potassium chromic oxalate of Gregory ; and many of its properties are those also of my salt .
Brewster f states :\#151 ; " In the smaller crystals , which are generally the best formed , the colour of both reflected and transmitted daylight is blue , but that of candle-light is purplish .
' " The relations of this salt to plain and polarized light may be readily examined and finely exhibited by placing upon a plate of glass a few drops of a saturated solution of it in water .
If the crystals are slowly formed , they will be found of various thicknesses , each thickness exhibiting a different colour , varying from perfect transparency through all shades of * Phil. Trans. 1835 , part 1 .
t Phil. Mag. vol. vii .
p. 435 .
1873 .
] Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
pale yellow , green , and blue in daylight , and through all shades of pale yellow , pale orange , red , and blue in candle-light .
" I find the colour of small crystals by reflected light is not always blue , but varies between blue and green , just as does the new salt under the circumstances already mentioned .
Again , the variations in tint of small crystals is attributed to the differences in thickness ; but it is really due to pleochroism of a character identical with that in my salt .
A crystal powdered up coarsely , and placed under the microscope , no longer presents a blue colour , but consists of a beautiful collection of coloured fragments , decided red , green , blue , and yellow , besides all imaginable intermediate tints , such as neutral green and greenish blue .
These tints change as the fragments roll over in the liquid surrounding them .
This property is not noticed by Haidinger , who , in a contribution to Poggendorff s ' Annalen ' * on the pleo-ehroism of this potassium salt , states that the diehroiscope showed the ordinary image to be green , and the extraordinary blue , the blue tint being the brighter , so that , the colours being brought together in daylight , the blue prevails .
Brewster noticed previously that , the images\#151 ; produced by double refraction in these crystals , the least refracted was blue , and the most refracted green .
Bunsent has obtained different absorption-spectra by passing polarized light through different axes of crystals of didymium sulphate .
Light in traversing a crystal of such a substance as this new compound is both coloured and polarized by the crystal itself ; it is therefore impossible to regard its spectrum by other than polarized light .
We therefore get different kinds of absorption in different crystalline axes , which are manifested in a striking manner by the varying colours the salt presents .
This well exemplifies the fact that pleochroism results from the polarization of light traversing a doubly-refracting coloured medium .
Prom the microscopic examination of many similar new compounds , namely ammonio-calcium , potassio-ammonium , potassio-lithium , potas-sio-thallium , barium , and strontium chromic oxalates , it was found that the efficiency in displaying pleochroism was inversely as the molecular weight of the compounds , because the property depends upon the amount of colour the chromium gives to the crystals .
The proportion of chromium is of course larger when it is associated with other elements possessing small atomic weights .
And whether we have 40 parts of calcium or 406 of thallium in a compound associated with 52 of chromium , is a matter which greatly affects the percentage of chromium in the substance .
It was at first supposed , from the totally different appearance of the salt when precipitated , and when slowly formed in large crystals , that two compounds were obtained , it being a common occurrence to have * Yol .
lxxvi .
p. 107 .
t Pogg .
Ann. vol. cxxviii .
506 Mr. W. N. Hartley on a new Chromic Oxalate .
[ Nov. 27 , two modifications of a chromium salt , as for instance the blue and the green solutions of chromic nitrates and sulphates .
Chemical analysis , however , showed them to be identical in composition , while the crystallization and close examination of many specimens disclosed the nature of the substance .
I have come to the conclusion that this is certainly the most remarkable example of pleochroism at present known .
Note.\#151 ; Received November 7 , 1873 .
I find that the potassio-calcium chromic oxalate is a substance which excels uranium compounds as a test for the purity of white light .
It is well known that uranic salts exhibit dark bands in the blue part of the spectrum , which cannot be seen by gas-light although plainly visible by day ; they are , however , shown with some distinctness by the lime-light .
This chromium compound shows a red tint by gas-light , red and blue by the lime-light , while by the light of magnesium wire or the sun it displays red , blue , and green .
So sensitive , indeed , is this substance that its true colour cannot be seen on an ordinary November morning in London , some crystals appearing blue , others of a colour varying between neutral grey , lilac , and red tints , according to the yellowness of the atmosphere .
To the list of substances examined for pleochroism , I have now to add , besides the minerals well known to possess this property:\#151 ; Sulphate of iodo-quinine .
Sulphate of iodo-cinchonidine .
Sulphate of iodo-quinidine .
Potassio-palladium chloride .
Ammonio-palladium chloride .
Potassium permanganate .
Teriodide of tetrethylammonium .
The powerful polarizing qualities of the first two iodine compounds are well known ; they have been described by Dr. Herapath* and Prof. Stokes .
As they crystallize , however , in thin plates , it is impossible to transmit light through more than one axis ; they cannot therefore be brought into comparison with my substance .
Endeavours to obtain large thick crystals did not meet with success .
Sulphate of iodo-quinidine crystallizes in beautiful orange-brown prisms with a violet lustre ; it is , however , but a feeble polarizer , and therefore does not exhibit pleochroism to any noticeable extent .
The double palladium salts which have been previously examined are beautifully pleochroi'c prismatic crystals exhibiting an orange-brown tint along the principal crystalline axis , and a green in other positions .
It is well seen in crystals | millim. in thickness .
Potassium permanganate is a substance which , seen even in minute crystals , is still opaque .
A very dilute solution was allowed to * Proc. Roy .
Soc. viii .
1856-57 .
Phil. Mag. S. 4 .
vol. iii .
1852 ; iv .
1852 ; vi .
1853 .
1873 .
] Spectroscopic Quantitative Analysis of Alloys .
crystallize on a slip of glass , and crystals small enough to be transparent were examined by daylight with an \#163 ; -inch objective ; no remarkable difference was observed in the colour of different crystals of the same thickness , and the polariscope did not show them to be pleochroic , the two contrasting colours , violet and red , being due to different thicknesses of crystals .
To aid me in the above experiments , Messrs. Howards and Sons , of Stratford , very generously supplied me with the sulphates of cinchonidine and quinidine in a pure state ; and I beg to offer them my best thanks for the kindness .
The iodine compound of the tetrethyl-ammonium occurs in prismatic crystals resembling the sulphate of iodo-quinidme , but exhibits no property of interest .
II .
" On the Quantitative Analysis of certain Alloys by means of the Spectroscope .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. , and William Chandler Roberts , Chemist of the Mint .
Received November 20 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The authors , after referring to experiments which showed clearly that the spectroscope might be employed to detect minute differences in the composition of certain alloys , proceed to give an account of the researches which they had instituted with a view to ascertain the degree of accuracy of which the method is capable .
The image of an electric spark passing between the unknown alloy and a fixed electrode being thrown by means of a lens on the slit of the spectroscope , the phenomena observed were found to vary with the composition of the alloys ; and further , by arranging them together with known check-pieces on a suitable stand , and bringing them in turn under the fixed electrode , the composition of the unknown alloys was determined by comparison with the known check-pieces .
The shape of the electrode ultimately adopted was that represented in the sketch ; and these pieces were held in their places by suitable metallic clips .
Special attention was then directed to the adjustment of the length of the spark , which was found to materially influence the phenomena .
The method adopted consisted in placing the variable electrode in the field of a fixed microscope having a 3- or 4-inch objective , and adjusting the summit of this electrode to coincide with the spider-lines of the eyepiece .
After a series of experiments on alloys of zinc and cadmium of various compositions , the results of which were shown on a curve , more extended trials were made with the gold-copper alloy employed in coinage , which was peculiarly suited to these researches in consequence of the known method of asiTay having been brought to so high a state of perfection ( the composition being determined with accuracy to the part of the original assay-piece of about 7 grains ) , and from the fact that reliance can be

