492 Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell on the Changes of [ Jan. 18 , physical nerve change , so that the expression would become a physiological instead of a psychical one .
Fechner regards the liminal intensity of an increment of sensation as an invariable unit , whilst , as is clearly shown , the liminal increment of the stimulus varies as a function of the stimulus already existing .
This is an entirely arbitrary convention .
If we regard the value of the liminn.1 increment of sensation as a variable depending for its value on the already existing sensation , we may take 2KJ^=KvF=s'orVfocAS ' instead of Fechner 's expression where x represents the stimulus and S the sensation .
This relation is further borne out by the beautiful experiments of Mr. Dewar and Dr. McKendrick , which show that the electric variation in the natural current of the eye varies as the square root of the intensity of the stimulus ; although those authors have attempted to make their results accord with Fechner 's formula , they have only done so by the erroneous use of one of M. Delboeuf 's constants , which gives a very wide range of arbitrary adjustment .
January 18 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Note on the Changes of the fixed Corpuscles of the Cornea in the Process of Inflammation By G. F. Dowdeswell , B.A. Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. [ Plate 10 .
] Since the discovery by Von Recklinghausen of the immigration of pus-corpuscles into the substance of the cornea in inflammation , several 1877 .
] the Cornea in the Process of Inflammation .
observers have alleged that proliferation of the fixed corpuscles of that tissue also occurs ; in other words , that the so-termed leucocytes aie not entirely immigrant , but that some of them are formed in the inflamed tissues .
It is stated by those who take this view of the process , that in a few hours after the establishment of inflammation the fixed corpuscles begin to alter , that their processes are partially retracted and thickened , their outline becoming more distinct , and that at a later period small spherical bodies appear in their substance by a process of endogenous cell-formation ; that with the progress of inflammation these changes increase , the corpuscles losing their stellate form , and assuming the character of endogenous mother-cells which divide by fission .
These observations have all apparently been made upon corneas excised and examined in serum or other fluid , or upon laminae of corneas prepared by the gold method .
Cohnheim and others have denied that the changes are objective , and attribute all the appearances to an active immigration of leucocytes .
A principal objection to this conclusion has been founded on the grounds that the observations commenced too late , when the asserted changes had already occurred .
In the ordinary methods of preparation , the appearances presented during the second and third day of the inflammation are such as might readily be conceived to arise from proliferation of the elements of the tissue ; and it is unquestionably matter of great difficulty to determine with certainty wThether this does occur or not .
The purpose of the present note is to describe a mode of investigating these appearances , by the employment of which satisfactory evidence may be obtained that the process essentially consists in the penetration of colourless corpuscles ( migratory cells ) , in a state of active cell-division , into the cell-spaces of the cornea , where they overlie and obscure the cornea-cells in such a way that , in preparations made by the usual methods , they appear to be incorporated with them .
If , however , a method is employed by which the ground-substance can be destroyed ( as , by potash ) and the corpuscles separated by teasing , it is shown that they are perfectly unaltered , the migratory or wander cells only undergoing cell-division ; so that it is by the presence of the latter alone that the difference between a normal and an inflamed cornea can be recognized .
The appearances presented by these corpuscles in corneas prepared by the ordinary methods , when supposed to be undergoing proliferation , have been so often described and figured that they need not be further referred to here .
Methods adopted in these experiment.\#151 ; Inflammation was induced either by touching the surface with a fine point of nitrate of silver in the usual way ( in which case the ensuing process arrives at its height in about 48 hours , and then gradually subsides , so that by the fourth or fifth day its effects have disappeared ) or ( when it was desired that the Mr. G. F. Dow deswell on the Changes of [ Jan. 18 , process should be of longer duration ) by a seton of silk thread .
The animal having been killed at the proper period , and its cornea excised and immersed in half per cent , solution of gold chloride for 60 minutes , and exposed in a light warm place , when sufficiently coloured a small portion of the inflamed part is placed in a solution of potash till the ground-substance is completely dissolved .
Care is requisite to hit off the exact point for this , a few minutes too much or too little rendering the preparation useless .
If the time of exposure is too short , obviously the ground-substance is not wholly dissolved , and nothing is seen ; if it is too long , the potash begins to act upon the protoplasm , and the corpuscles cannot be separated nor distinguished .
It was found that , if the cornea was put into a 20 per cent , solution of pure potash cold , and then subjected to a temperature of 40 ' C. , 50 minutes was the proper time required for the action of the potash .
When sufficiently acted upon , the cornea is transferred to slightly acidulated water , to stop any further action of the potash , then placed on a slide , if necessary teased out lightly , and preserved in glycerine .
In a preparation made by the above methods a number of migratory cells will be apparent under the microscope , some of which are entangled amongst the processes of the fixed corpuscles .
All these are in a state of active cell-division and assuming diversified forms , but are very readily distinguished from the fixed corpuscles by their being devoid of processes , of somewhat darker colour , and by their presenting a more opaque and solid appearance* .
The fixed corpuscles , with their processes , show no alteration whatever .
As may be seen from the figures ( Plate 10 .
group II .
) , the processes radiate from the bodies in a natural and symmetrical manner , and the ramifications are as perfect as ever .
This would certainly not be so if segmentation had occurred ; for in that case one side at least of each newly divided corpuscle would be devoid of processes .
Nothing approaching to such a condition is ever seen .
In inflamed preparations , as in normal ones , fixed corpuscles are occasionally met with containing two nuclei or a double nucleus ; but this appearance is not often seen , and not more frequently in later than in earlier stages .
In conclusion it may be stated that in the whole number of successful preparations of corneas which have been examined ( amounting to upwards of twenty ) , no single instance has occurred in which any distinct appearance of segmentation can be made out .
The most careful scrutiny of the preparations fails to detect any difference whatever , as regards their forms or aspects , between the fixed corpuscles of inflamed corneas and those of normal corneas prepared in a similar way ; nor would it be possible to distinguish preparations of the two classes from each other , were it not for the presence of migratory cells in the inflamed structure .
In the drawings representations are given both of normal preparations * This is not adequately shown in the drawings .
Dowdesyrell Pvoc .
Roy .
Soc. Vo i. 25.P L.10 .
Gro ujo I \gt ; W. West \amp ; \#166 ; 1877 .
] the Cornea in the Process of Inflammation .
495 ( Plate 10 .
group I. ) and of others at the most active period of inflammation ( group II .
) .
These have all been most carefully drawn under the camera , each fibre and line being actually copied as they appeared in situ in the field of view of the microscope , some processes and other bodies being omitted for the sake of clearness , and the peripheral members of the group sometimes brought nearer to the centre to save space .
Numerous other preparations were made at all stages of inflammation , commencing with five hours , when little or no change was observable , up to five and seven days , when , in the case of inflammation induced by nitrate of silver , the effects had passed off , leaving no recognizable traces .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 10 .
Group I. Corpuscles of the Normal Cornea .
Fig. 1 .
Two corpuscles , isolated , of a vacuolated appearance ; nucleus indistinct , pro-cesses much anastomosing .
Fig. 2 .
Two similar corpuscles .
Fig. 3 .
A single corpuscle , showing reduplication of nucleus and nucleolus , and what might be taken for segmentation of its substance .
Fig. 4 .
Two typical normal forms .
Fig. 5 .
A single corpuscle , with very large and strongly defined nucleus .
Group II .
Corpuscles of a Cornea 48 hours after commencement of inflammation by application of Nitrate of Silver .
Fig. 6 .
A group of fixed corpuscles ( c ) and wander cells ( w ) .
The latter are seen to be of diversified form and in an active state of cell-division .
The appearances which the fixed corpuscles present are all paralleled in the figures of normal preparations , and , notwithstanding the activity of the inflammation , as evidenced by the state of the wander cells , there is no appearance of proliferation nor of any thing abnormal in these .
, Fig. 7 .
A corpuscle with conspicuous nucleus and two wander cells ( w ) clinging to its Fig. 8 .
Two corpuscles , the one vacuolated and with nucleus distinct , the other similar to fig. 3 , group I. YOL .
XXY .

