2 .
Memorandum addressed to the Royal Society .
By T. Wharton Jones , F.R.S. The following is the memorandum in the words of the author : ?
On the 18th of June , 1835 , a memoir , entitled , &lt; 4 On the Ova of Man and Mammiferous Animals , as they exist in the Ovaries before Impregnation , and on the discovery in them of a Vesicle analogous to that described by Professor Purkinje in the Immature Egg of the Bird , " was laid before the Royal Society .
At the time I wrote , I believed myself the first who had observed the vesicle alluded to ; but by a reference to the manuscript in the archives of the Society , it will be seen , from a postscript , that before sending it to be communicated , I had become aware that M. Cost of Paris had some time before announced that he had made a similar observation , as far as concerns the rabbit .
Those who are conversant in such matters are doubtless aware that I was anticipated also by Professor Valentin ; but of this circumstance I was not informed till some considerable time after .
It thus appears that , though I was an independent discoverer of the germinal vesicle of the mammiferous ovum , all the share in the discovery I can lay claim to historically is that of being the first who pointed it out in this country .
There is one point , however , in the anatomy of the germinal ve ?
sicle of the mammiferous ovum of which I feel myself entitled to be recognized , especially by the Royal Society , as contemporaneous discoverer , and that is , the spot on the side of the vesicle .
Feeling this , and having heard at the last meeting of the Royal Society the discovery of this spot attributed solely to the distinguished German physiologist , Professor Rudolph Wagner , I consider it due to the Royal Society and to myself to call to the Society 's remembrance the fact , that , in the memoir above referred to as having been laid before them in 1835 , the spot in question is not only pointed out and particularly delineated , but its physiological importance hinted at .
The laying of a paper before a Society is an act of publication .
With the communication of my paper to the Royal Society in 1835 , the publication of Professor Wagner 's paper in Muller 's Archiv was contemporaneous merely .
It is true , that though Professor Wagner 's observations were only first published in Muller 's Archiv for 1835 , there is a note by the editor , saying that the paper was received by him in 1834 ; but it is also true , ?
and of this , were it necessary , proof could be easily adduced , ?
that my paper was written also in 1834 .
In conclusion , I beg to apologize to the Royal Society for obtruding on their notice what may appear matter rather of personal than general interest .

