168 Action of Light Rays on Organic , and the Photosynthesis of Organic from Inorganic Compounds in Presence of Inorganic Colloids .
By Benjamin Moore , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and T. A. Webster .
( Received December 11 , 1917 .
) ( From the Department of Applied Physiology and Hygiene , Medical Research Committee .
) In a former paper by the present authors* it was shown that sunlight in the presence of certain inorganic colloids , and notably of commonly occurring substances , such as colloidal ferric oxide or hydrate , possesses the power of acting upon water and carbonic acid , and yielding the energy necessary for the production of formaldehyde , from which carbohydrates and other organic constituents found in plants and animals might be built up .
In a later paper it was shown by Mooref that such inorganic compounds of iron occur associated in the chloroplasts of green plants , and especially marked in the lowlier green organisms , and hence that such photo-synthetic processes in which inorganic iron salts played the part of energy transformers might be regarded as taking a part in normal photo-synthesis in the plant .
The present paper records a continuation of these experiments .
The source of light energy instead of sunlight was often the light of a mercury vapour lamp in a silica tube on account of the difficulty from weather conditions of using sunlight during the greater part of the year .
Such a lamp gives certain lines of light in the ultra-violet range possessing a good deal of energy , and this part of the spectrum is the most powerful in producing the effects recorded , for it suffices to expose the solutions in glass tubes instead of silica tubes , or to interpose even a thin plate of mica between the source of light and the solution , in order to cut off nearly all of the effect .
As in the previous paper the test used for the presence of formaldehyde in the experiments with inorganic catalysts was that introduced by Schryver^ in which a pink coloration is produced in presence of formaldehyde by phenyl-hydrazine and potassium ferricyanide in acid solution .
The test is so delicate that it shows quite clearly one part in 2,000,000 of formaldehyde , and wre have found it most satisfactory with continued use .
Some attempt has been * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 163 ( 1913 ) .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 556 ( 1914 ) .
I 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 82 , p. 226 ( 1910 ) ; Report No. 9 , Inspector of Food 's Department of the Local Government Board .
Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
169 made in certain of our experiments to obtain roughly quantitative results by colorimetric comparison with diluted solutions of formaldehyde used as controls .
Three types of experiment have been carried out , viz. : ( A ) a considerable number of inorganic salts in dilute solution in water , and in either crystalloidal or colloidal solution , have been tested as to their activity as transformers in the action of light on water and carbonic acid ; ( B ) the action of light upon formaldehyde at higher concentration has been investigated ; and ( C ) the action of light upon organic bodies of more complex nature , such as carbohydrates , proteins , vegetable and animal juices and extracts , and other substances of bio-chemical interest has been studied .
The results will be described in corresponding sections of this paper .
A. Photosynthesis by Inorganic Transformers .
In the previous work it had been found that oxide of uranium in the colloidal state gave a far greater effect than the crystalloidal salts , and the inference was drawn that the state of aggregation of the colloid was favourable to the photo-synthetic reaction .
Accordingly in our earlier experiments with iron compounds , colloidal ferric oxide was employed .
Continued investigation of the iron compounds has , however , shown that the size of the solution aggregate may easily become too great , and that there is a certain degree of aggregation at which the catalytic action has an optimum value .
Thus , while dialysis of uranium oxide gives a condition in which the photosynthetic effect is much greater than that obtained with an equal concentration of uranium nitrate in crystalloidal condition , dialysis of iron compounds on the other hand gives a condition in which less effect is obtained than with an equal concentration of ordinary ferric chloride .
It is to be remembered , however , that there is often in the case of ordinary solutions of salts of heavy metals a good deal of complex formation approaching a colloidal condition .
This is shown , for example , in the case of solutions of cupric salts by the apparent lack of agreement between the molecular weights as deduced by the freezing-point method , and the degree of ionisation as given by conductivity determinations .
It is shown in the case of ferric chloride solutions by the darkening in colour of dilute solutions on warming , approaching the colour shown by colloidal iron solutions , and persisting after the heated solution has cooled again , for prolonged periods of time .
Also , if a dilute solution of ferric chloride be boiled a precipitation of a part of the iron as ferric oxide is obtained , and the precipitate remains permanent on cooling although the period of boiling is far too short to remove a corresponding amount of hydrochloric acid .
All these facts demonstrate that there Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
are ions and molecules in the ferric chloride solution of greater molecular complexity than the mono-molecular condition .
The explanation then of the greater effect with undialysed ferric chloride , as contrasted with colloidal ferric oxide solution , is that the mass of the complex molecule in the ordinary ferric chloride solution is that which can best take up the light vibrations and absorb the energy , whereas in the colloidal ferric oxide solution the solution-aggregate has become too heavy to take up the light-energy and convert it into chemical energy .
On the other hand , with the uranium salts , the optimum solution-aggregate to act as a transformer for light-energy lies nearer that found in the dialysed solutions than in the ordinary uranium nitrate solutions , and accordingly the former show a higher photo-synthetic activity .
Silicic acid and its salts show the same kind of effect as the uranium compounds , for dialysed silicic acid solution gives a strong photo-synthetic action , while both sodium silicate solution and undialysed silicic acid solution are inactive .
There appear , therefore , to be two factors in the production of photosynthetic activity by a given light source , viz. , ( 1 ) the specific character of the inorganic catalyst or transformer , ( 2 ) the degree of its molecular aggregation in solution .
In view of criticisms that have been made as to the necessity of inorganic catalysts in the solution , and as to the possibility of the ultra-violet rays producing the synthetic effect when passed into pure water charged with carbon dioxide , as also the view that the formaldehyde obtained might be produced from the minute traces of organic matter in the dialysed solutions and not synthetically from carbon dioxide and water , the following critical series of experiments was carried out .
1 .
Water alone , freshly re-distilled , was saturated by a stream of carbon dioxide and then exposed in a quartz test-tube during the whole of a bright summer day on the roof to direct sunlight ; alongside it in a similar quartz test-tube was exposed a 1-per-cent , solution of ferric chloride also saturated with carbon dioxide , and a third test-tube filled with T-per-cent .
ferric chloride saturated with carbon dioxide was kept in a dark cupboard .
Tested at the end , after distilling away from the iron salts , the distilled water tube and dark ferric chloride tube gave a negative result , while the tube of ferric chloride exposed to sunlight in presence of carbon dioxide gave a bright pink colour with the Schryver 's reagent corresponding to about 1 in 500,000 of formaldehyde .
2 .
A solution of 1-per-cent , ferric chloride was made up with distilled water which had been freshly boiled and was free from carbon dioxide ; this Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
171 was exposed during a whole week of bright sunshine in June , 1915 , on the laboratory roof , being contained in a quartz test-tube .
It was then distilled and tested with negative results .
These experiments clearly show that an inorganic energy-transformer is necessary , and that carbon dioxide alone in aqueous solution in sunlight does not form formaldehyde ; secondly , that the formaldehyde is not a decomposition product of traces of more highly organised substances , but is actually built up by the inorganic colloid absorbing the energy of the sunlight and so becoming activated and reacting on the water and carbon dioxide , transferring the energy and producing formaldehyde .
Both the elements hitherto described , viz. , uranium and iron , form higher and lower oxides , and it might , therefore , be urged that the higher oxide became reduced by the energy of the sunlight to a lower oxide with greater energy content , and that this lower oxide parting with its acquired energy to the water and carbon dioxide formed the formaldehyde to which the energy of the sunlight was thus indirectly transferred .
Such a view is of interest because similar changes do actually occur in certain life processes , where various types of micro-organism , such as iron organisms , sulphur organisms , and nitrogen-assimilating or carbophilous organisms carry out similar energy transformations .
The so-called iron bacteria are capable in darkness , as within an iron water-cistern or water-main , of utilising the energy of metallic iron or ferrous oxide , when given out in the process of oxidation to the ferric condition .
The organism is enabled by a linked reaction to utilise for building up from carbon dioxide and water those reduced organic substances which form its body material .
Similarly , the philothionic organisms are capable of utilising the energy of sulphur , or reduced sulphur compounds , to build up organic carbon compounds , and the nitrogen-assimilating organisms fed with organic carbon compounds can link up to the endothermic reactions necessary to convert the atmospheric nitrogen into ammonium salts or nitrites , and from these build up proteins .
In all cases where the energy of light is absent , however , there must evidently have been previously a light-transforming reaction at some earlier period of history , for without this the metal or lower oxides , or sulphur or sulphide would never have been formed upon which the organism not utilising light depends for its store of energy .
In a world cooling down from red-heat , in presence of free oxygen in its atmosphere , all these substances would have been completely oxidised , and so the immense world deposits of pyrites and ferrous oxide and such-like reduced substances , just like coal , shale and petrol , must have originated from previous life processes , accompanied by energy transformations in presence of sunlight .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
It is accordingly of some interest to enquire whether such transformations of sunlight into chemical energy by inorganic transformers are associated with a temporary chemical change from a higher to a lower oxide , or whether the change is a surface action in which the light-energy is converted into chemical energy at the surface of the colloidal aggregate .
Our experiments favour the latter view , for if the lower oxide reacted with the water and carbon dioxide to form formaldehyde , then a greater reactivity might be expected when ferrous salts were employed instead of ferric salts ; this is , however , not the case , for we have found ferrous salts to be entirely inert , nor have we been able by titration with permanganate to show any formation of ferrous salts when ferric salts are exposed in aqueous solutions in presence of carbonic acid .
Moreover , many of the active inorganic transformers which we have lately investigated , as recorded below , do not form higher and lower oxides under the conditions in which we have used them .
It is therefore probable that the energy transformation is one induced by the energy of the light at the surface of the colloid particle upon which probably carbon dioxide concentrates .
A number of other solutions were then tested after exposure to the rays from , a quartz mercury vapour arc .
In addition to the ferric salts and uranic salts , strong positive results were obtained with 1-per-cent , solutions of dialysed silicic acid , and with a 1-per-cent , solution of beryllium chloride ; less active t solutions , but distinctly positive in 1 per cent , solution , were copper chloride and sulphate , nickel chloride , palladium chloride , manganese chloride , erbium chloride .
Negative results were given by ferrous sulphate and chloride , sodium silicate , and undialysed hydrochloric acid solution of silicic acid , zinc chloride , cobalt chloride , potassium chloride and chromate , barium chloride , aluminium chloride , borax and telluric acid .
The above-named solutions were exposed in each case for a period of four to five hours in transparent quartz test-tubes , at a distance of 7 cm .
from a mercury vapour arc in a quartz tube .
B. Action of Sunlight and of Ultra-violet Light upon more Concentrated Solutions of Formaldehyde .
When formaldehyde is once formed by the action of sunlight from carbon dioxide and water , practically all the energy necessary for formation of carbohydrates by the condensation of formaldehyde groups has been absorbed ; for although the heat of combustion of formaldehyde has never been determined , judging from analogy in similar cases , the heat of combustion of six gramme-molecules of formaldehyde should be almost equivalent to that of one gramme-molecule of a hexose sugar .
For example , the Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
energy of formation , or combustion , of two gramme-molecules of any hexose is almost equivalent to that of one gramme-molecule of a biose or disaccharide , and all sugars and starches possess almost equal stores of chemical energy in equal masses .
As has been pointed out by Moore , * it is under such conditions that the typical reactions in living systems occur .
When the total chemical energy of the reacting substances on either side of the equation is large , but the difference on the two sides is small , then typical reversible reactions are seen with the equilibrium point a considerable distance removed from either end-point .
This condition of affairs so characteristic of bio-chemical reactions is due to a labile balance between osmotic energy and chemical energy , and it is for this reason that conjugation with formation of more complex molecules is favoured by higher concentration , whereas dilute solution favours cleavage into simpler molecules .
This point is of great importance in biological synthesis , and for understanding reversal of action within and without the cell , and as it is not yet sufficiently appreciated , an example illustrating it may be adduced .
Taking the heats of combustion as determined by Thomsen , the following equation gives the heat of reaction in the change between glucose and maltose ( K = 100 gramme-calories):\#151 ; C6H12O6 +CeH^Og 7^ C12H22O11 + H2O \#151 ; 33K , ( Glucose ) + ( Glucose ) ^ ( Maltose ) , 6737K + 6737K 13,507K -33K .
Thus the reaction is apparently a slightly endothermic one , as it runs from glucose into maltose ( a rule which holds for all the similar reactions ) , but observe that as the reaction runs in this direction the osmotic energy of the system diminishes , for every two molecules of glucose passing out of the system are replaced by only one of maltose .
Hence for every gramme-molecule of glucose passing into maltose a definite-amount of osmotic energy is set free , which can be converted into chemical energy , and hence make an apparently endothermic reaction run without added energy from without .
The amount of osmotic energy set free by the disappearance of the molecules of a constituent varies with the pressure at which it disappears , and therefore increases with the concentration of the solution , j* and hence it came about that the first successful experimental proof of reversibility was given * ' Becent Advances in Physiology and Bio-chemistry , ' edited by Leonard Hill , pp. 19 -40 .
Arnold , London , 1906 .
t The thermodynamic proof of this is given by Moore in the articles quoted previously .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; B. p Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
by Croft Hill* by the use of exceedingly concentrated sugar solutions , and that all such conjugations occur in concentrated solutions .
Local concentration will have a like effect , and in living cells concentrations on surfaces and interfaces will produce such a result .
In many of the reactions of inorganic chemistry the differences in totals of chemical energy on the two sides possess a high magnitude at ordinary temperatures , as , for example , in the reaction between hydrogen , oxygen and water .
Here the changes in osmotic energy are too insignificant to produce an appreciable effect , and so the reaction runs practically completely to one end or phase .
But , in the type of reaction with which we are here dealing of conjugation or cleavage where the chemical energy change is relatively small , the osmotic change becomes a powerful factor .
In the green cell of the living plant the formaldehyde can be condensed on an interface and there conjugate , although general concentration in the cell is kept at a low level .
If it be sought to imitate this in a solution of formaldehyde , the concentration must be increased so that the decrease of osmotic pressure may yield energy to supply that required in conjugation , or assist energy supply from without , such as light energy , to increase the potential towards chemical union .
This is what has been done in the experiments here recorded , in which a reducing substance has been obtained by subjecting comparatively concentrated formaldehyde solutions to the light of the quartz mercury vapour lamp .
When six molecules of formaldehyde condense to form one molecule of a hexose , there is only one molecule of dissolved material contributing to keep up the osmotic pressure where there were formerly six , and a corresponding amount of osmotic energy has disappeared as such , and been utilised to yield the slightly higher content of chemical energy which the hexose possesses over that of the formaldehyde which went to form it .
The energy so yielded will evidently be proportional to the osmotic pressure at which the formaldehyde molecules disappear , that is to say , to the concentration of the formaldehyde solution .
The osmotic pressure represents the intensity or potential factor of the osmotic energy , and this comes into equilibrium with the intensity factor of the chemical energy , tending to disrupt hexose into formaldehyde and set energy free .
This osmotic energy supply is sufficient to yield the amount required , and hence , in this type of reaction , the light plays mainly the part of a catalyst , * ' Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 73 , p. 634 ( 1898 ) ; vol. 83 , p. 578 ( 1903 ) .
Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
175 and not a provider of energy as in the synthesis of formaldehyde from carbon dioxide and water , or in the synthesis of nitrites from nitrates .
Hence it arises that very dilute solutions of formaldehyde do not yield hexoses under the action of light , and that dilute solutions of sugars do not condense to form disaccharides .
Conversely , if dilute solutions of the higher condensations , such as disaccharides or polysaccharides , be exposed to light , they split up into simple sugars , and these invariably yield formaldehyde , as will be shown in Section C. The first synthetic sugars were obtained by Butlerow , * by Loew , and later by Fischer and Passmore by acting upon concentrated solutions of formaldehyde or other organic substances with caustic alkalies .
Thus Loew used formaldehyde and milk of lime , and later freshly precipitated hydroxide of lead , Butlerow dioxymethelen and caustic potash , Fischer and Passmore acrolein bromide and baryta water .
Such powerful reagents accomplish the condensations and give origin to reducing sugars even in darkness and without need of external supply of energy .
In the absence of the alkali which acts as a catalyst , the reaction towards equilibrium is held in check , or proceeds only at an infinitely slow rate , so that a concentrated solution of formaldehyde can be kept in the dark for an indefinite period without developing any reducing substances .
In nature , no such strong hydroxyl-ion concentration is found in plant tissues as that of the reagents used for synthesis of sugars in vitro as mentioned above ; it is therefore interesting to obtain condensation with light exposure in absence of any high alkalinity .
At the time of our experiments we were unaware of any existing observations on the subject , but we have since discovered a paper by R. Pribram and A. Frank , f in which condensation of formaldehyde and formation of reducing substances was brought about by exposure of concentrated aqueous solutions to ultra-violet light , also a paper by an Italian observer , G. Inghilleri , } who exposed a mixture of concentrated aqueous formaldehyde and 6 per cent , of oxalic acid in sealed glass tubes in sunlight for several months , and obtained a hexose which he identified as the sugar sorbose ( inactive ) .
In both these cases , although the authors do not comment upon it , the law , stated above , of condensation in strong solutions holds .
Formaldehyde itself reduces Fehling 's solution in slight degree after long * Butlerow , ' Liebig 's Ann. , ' Bd .
cxx , p. 295 ; O. Loew , ' Berichte d. D. Chem. Gesellsch .
, ' Bd .
xix , p. 141 ( 1886 ) ; Bd .
xx , pp. 141 and 3039 ( 1887 ) ; Bd .
xxi , p. 278 ( 1888 ) ; Fischer and Passmore , ' Berichte d. D. Chem. Gesellsch .
, ' Bd .
xxii , p. 359 ( 1889 ) .
+ 'Berichte d. D. Chem. Gesellsch .
, ' Bd .
xliv , p. 1035 ( 1911 ) , and 'Monatsh .
f. Chem. , ' Bd .
xxxiii , p. 415 ( 1912 ) .
+ 'Zeitsch .
f. Physiol. Chem. , ' Bd .
lxxi , p. 105 ( 1911 ) , and Bd .
lxxiii , p. 44 ( 1911 ) .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
boiling , though not so readily as any hexose solution .
It was therefore of importance to find , if possible , some indicator which would not be reduced by formaldehyde , but would be reduced by more ' strongly reducing organic substances .
This was found in Benedict 's solution , an alkaline solution of copper sulphate in presence of sodium citrate and sodium carbonate ; this is not reduced at all even on prolonged boiling with formaldehyde , but a solution of formaldehyde after exposure to ultra-violet light reduces it readily , and the same effect is brought about , though much more slowly , by sunlight .
This condensation reaction with formaldehyde differs from the synthesis of formaldehyde from carbonic acid and water , in that it does not require the presence of an inorganic activator .
In the earlier experiments this was not known , and in these the reduction of the copper salt occurred around the colloidal silicic acid , added as an intended activator , showing the interesting fact that the sugar , or reducing substance , had been absorbed by the silica .
Later experiments demonstrated , however , that the reaction proceeds with equal or greater rapidity when a solution of 4-5 per cent , of formaldehyde in water only is exposed in quartz tubes to ultra-violet illumination .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; A solution containing 5 per cent , of formaldehyde and 0'97 per cent , colloidal silicic acid was exposed at 9 cm .
distance to the rays from a quartz mercury vapour lamp for a period of 6 hours .
At the end of the period a distinct reduction , chiefly in the precipitated silica , was obtained with Benedict 's solution .
A control , exactly similar , but kept in the dark , gave no reduction .
A portion of control solution kept warm in darkness also gave no reduction .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; Two quartz tubes were exposed alongside each other for a period of eight hours at 9 cm .
distance from lamp ; one contained 5 per cent , formaldehyde in water only , the other 5 per cent , formaldehyde in colloidal silicic acid solution .
At the end , the tube with silicic acid reduced Benedict 's solution , but to a much less degree than that containing formaldehyde alone , showing that dialysed silicic acid probably acts as an anticatalyst .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; A sufficient concentration of the formaldehyde appears to be reached at about 5 per cent. , in order to develop the maximum rapidity of formation of the reducing substance .
Thus two quartz test-tubes , one containing 40 per cent , and the other 8 per cent , of formaldehyde , were exposed to the quartz mercury-vapour lamp , at the same distance ( 9 cm .
) for the same period ( three hours ) in each case .
Both gave quite a marked reduction , at least as great in the less concentrated solution as in the highly concentrated one .
This result , and that of the succeeding experiments Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
177 ( Experiment 4 ) , does not invalidate the reasoning given above , for 2-per-cent , solution of formaldehyde is already a concentrated solution possessing as high a molecular concentration as a 12-per-cent , solution of a hexose , and the optimum has already been reached .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; In a similar experiment , four quartz flasks of 250 c.c. each were filled respectively with 0'5 , 1 , 2 , and 4-per-cent , solutions of formaldehyde , and exposed to ultra-violet light at 7^ cm .
from the lamp .
As a result of the greater volume in the flasks per unit of surface , the appearance of reducing substance is slower than in the quartz test-tubes , but the 2-percent .
solution showed distinct reduction after seven hours ' exposure ; the stronger 4-per-cent , solution and the two more dilute solutions at this time gave no reduction .
Tested again after 10 hours ' total exposure , the |-per-cent .
solution was still negative , while the 1-per-cent , showed a faint reduction , the 4-per-cent , somewhat more , and the 2-per-cent , still gave the best reduction .
The ^-per-cent , solution only begins to reduce after about 30 hours ' exposure , when all the others are giving a copious reduction .
Control flasks kept at 40 ' C. in thermostat showed no development of reducing power during this period .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; The formaldehyde used in the above experiments had not .
recently been distilled , and contained para-formaldehyde .
In order to test if the simple aldehyde , or its polymer , or both , gave the reducing substance under the action of the ultra-violet light , a portion of the commercial 40-per-cent , solution was distilled , and the first portion coming over , as well as the solid polymer left behind in the retort after distilling over the greater part , were separately made up in aqueous solution , and exposed to light in about 4-per-cent , solution .
The solid was dissolved in distilled water , and the distilled aldehyde was diluted with distilled water .
Both were tested with Benedict 's solution before exposure , and neither gave any reduction .
The two solutions in two quartz test-tubes were then exposed for four hours at 8 cm .
distance , and , on testing , a copious reduction was obtained in both cases .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; This experiment was mainly designed to locate the wave-length of the light causing the condensation .
Two test-tubes were taken , one made of transparent quartz , the other of ordinary soft glass ; the dimensions and thicknesses of wall of the tubes were about the same , the capacity of each being about 35 c.c. Each test-tube received 25 c.c. of the same 4-per-cent , aqueous solution of formaldehyde which had recently been distilled , and the two tubes were placed in equally favourable positions alongside each other at about 5 cm .
distance from the quartz tube of a mercury-vapour lamp .
At the outset the formaldehyde gave no reduction of Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
Benedict 's solution .
After three hours ' exposure the contents of the quartz tube gave a fair reduction of Benedict 's solution , while those of the glass tube still gave a complete negative with this test solution .
At the expiry of 6 J hours ' exposure the contents of the quartz tube gave a copious reduction , but the contents of the glass tube had not yet developed any reducing substance .
At the end of 12 hours the contents of both tubes showed reduction , those of the glass tube to about the same extent as had been obtained in the quartz tube in three hours , while the contents of the quartz tube now gave a heavy precipitate of cuprous oxide when tested by the Benedict 's solution .
The remainder of the contents of the quartz tube were distilled at ordinary atmospheric pressure almost to dryness , leaving a white solid residue in the distilling flask .
The residue was taken up with warm water , in which it readily dissolved , and made up to the original volume .
Both distillate and residue were then tested with Benedict 's solution , and both were found to reduce it readily , the residue containing apparently somewhat more reducing substance than the distillate .
Again , both distillate and residue reduce neutral silver nitrate solution and mercuric chloride solution .
This experiment shows that the short wave-lengths are the most powerful , and that the limit lies at about the shortest wave-lengths transmissible by glass .
Experiment 7.\#151 ; In a somewhat similar experiment two quartz test-tubes were taken , of the same dimensions as above , and the same concentration of formaldehyde was employed , but around one of the tubes as thin a sheet of mica as could be split off was folded so as completely to surround the quartz , and held in position by two loops of thread at top and bottom .
The mica was so thin that it readily folded over the test-tube ( about 3 cm .
in diameter ) without cracking .
Yet this thin layer of mica was so effective a screen that there was not a trace of reduction after a 12 hours ' exposure similar to that given above in glass ; the contents of the unshielded quartz tube showed a distinct reduction after two hours ' exposure .
Experiment 8.\#151 ; Only preliminary experiments have hitherto been made towards the identification of the substance or substances giving the reductions with these metallic salts .
It is natural to suppose that there should be representatives of intermediate condensation products lying on the path between formaldehyde and the hexoses .
Pribram and Frank , in the papers above referred to , believed they were able to identify glycol-aldehyde arising from the condensation of two molecules of formaldehyde , and Inghilleri claims to have isolated the racemic sorbose by means of its osazone .
Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
179 It was evident to us that we were dealing with a complex mixture , and , although there is a quite distinct effect with phenyl-hydrazine in acetic acid solution , quite different from that of formaldehyde , and giving abundance of coloured precipitate , we have not yet succeeded in isolating a crystalline osazone , though we have on several occasions obtained crystals mixed with amorphous smears .
In order to prepare large quantities of material , four quartz flasks , each of about 300 c.c. capacity , were completely filled with a 4-per-cent , solution of formaldehyde , and exposed at a distance of about 4 inches from the lamp for several hours daily for a week .
The result was disappointing , on account of the slowness of action .
The effect appears , like many effects of light , even in clear solutions , to be all concentrated within a comparatively thin layer lying next the incident surface .
Accordingly , as in these larger vessels the volume increases much more rapidly than the exposed surface , the concentration of reducing substance in the solution progresses at a correspondingly slow rate .
At the end of the week there was a fair amount of reduction in all four flasks , but not more than would be obtained in a small quartz test-tube with a single day 's exposure .
In continuation , four quartz test-tubes , each of about 30 c.c. capacity , were filled with part of the contents of one of the flasks , and exposed at 5 cm .
distance for two days .
The contents were mixed and used for the following experiments:\#151 ; Several attempts to obtain an osazone were made by heating with excess of phenyl-hydrazine and acetic acid .
The unchanged formaldehyde interfered , and although attempts were made to overcome this by fractional precipitation , the most that could be obtained was occasionally small microscopic tufts of crystals , mixed with oily and amorphous material .
Changes due to the exposure are evidenced by the deep orange colour and orange precipitate obtained on boiling with the phenyl-hydrazine in the case of the exposed solution , while similar treatment of the unexposed formaldehyde gave only a pale yellow colour in both solution and precipitate .
An attempt was made to remove the unchanged formaldehyde by forming the addition compound with aniline , but unfortunately the reducing substance also precipitated with the aniline .
When added to exposed formaldehyde solution aniline causes a white precipitate as it does with unexposed formaldehyde , but the latter precipitate remains white on heating , while that given by the exposed solution turns a dark orange colour when heated .
The filtrate from the aniline precipitate no longer reduces Benedict 's solution , even when concentrated on the water-bath , neither does the aniline precipitate reduce .
It was not possible to separate from the precipitate anything but formaldehyde and aniline .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
Exposed formaldehyde solutions turn yellow when concentrated by distillation either at atmospheric or reduced pressure and leave behind a yellow syrup with a bitter taste which strongly reduces Benedict 's solution ; unexposed formaldehyde solutions leave a smaller residue of white paraldehyde .
Experiment 9.\#151 ; The condensing action of light is aided by slight alkalinity .
Three quartz test-tubes were taken : in the first was placed a mixture of equal volumes of 4-per-cent , formaldehyde solution and water , in the second and third a mixture of equal volumes of 4-per-cent , formaldehyde solution and of a 1-per-cent , solution of sodium carbonate ( NasCCb ) .
The first and second were exposed for three hours at a distance of 3 cm .
, while the third was kept in darkness in an incubator at approximately the same temperature as that caused by the irradiation , viz. , about 50 ' C. At the end of the period the unexposed solution gave no reduction with Benedict 's solution , and the tube contents exposed in presence of the alkaline carbonate gave practically double the intensity of reduction of those equally diluted with water .
Tested again at the end of 15 hours the contents of the tube kept warm in darkness still gave no reduction , while the other two now gave each a heavy reduction .
Even after an additional period of three days in the incubator the dilute formaldehyde and sodium carbonate solutions kept in darkness gave no reduction with Benedict 's solution .
C. The General Formation of Formaldehyde by the Action of Light upon Organic Substances of Bio-chemical Origin .
The series of experiments leading to the generalisation made in this section were induced by an attempt to construct an emulsion of chlorophyll in extractives from green leaves along with colloidal ferric hydrate so as to produce an artificial system resembling that present in the chloroplast of the green plant , which might then be exposed to light and tested for production of formaldehyde .
Eor this purpose a quantity of grass leaves was washed with water and then extracted with absolute alcohol .
The filtrate was allowed to remain at room temperature in a desiccator over sulphuric acid until the alcohol had evaporated and a green extract remained behind .
This was rubbed up and shaken into an emulsion with a colloidal solution of ferric oxide .
This emulsion was saturated with carbon dioxide and exposed for about four hours to the light of the quartz mercury vapour lamp .
At the end the chlorophyll had bleached , and the ferric hydrate had coagulated so that the whole could be filtered .
The result was surprising as to the intensity of the formaldehyde return ; when the Scliryver test was applied there was at once a deep pink colour produced .
Even after a twenty-five-fold dilution Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
181 a reaction was obtained of about 2 parts of formaldehyde per 1,000,000 , showing an amount of about 1 part in 20,000 in the original emulsion .
This result was not , however , due to the combined action of chlorophyll and colloidal ferric hydrate , for a similar intense result was obtained when an exposure was made of an emulsion of chlorophyll extract alone in distilled water and without any carbon dioxide .
It follows that the formaldehyde must have originated either from the chlorophyll or the other organic substances in the green leaves taken out by the alcohol along with the chlorophyll .
Additional experiments showed us that practically any complex organic substance of biological origin yields formaldehyde when exposed to the action of ultra-violet light , and also\#151 ; though more slowly\#151 ; when exposed to sunlight .
Solutions or emulsions were exposed of all the commoner sugars ( such as glucose , fructose , maltose , lactose , saccharose ) , of glycogen , starch , glycerine , egg-albumen , milk , and various vegetable juices .
After three to four hours ' exposure and subsequent filtration or distillation those all showed the presence of formaldehyde in varying amount .
The more transparent solutions gave the more intense reactions , and amongst these the sugars were most rapidly disrupted by the action of the light .
The action appears to be one of successive hydrolysis ; thus , for example , cane sugar is first inverted , and after an hour or two gives a strong reduction with Benedict 's solution .
The reaction takes place also with sterilised sugar solutions , in sealed glass tubes , exposed to bright sunlight , but the speed of reaction is much less than when a quartz container is used , and the exposure must be continued for several days .
The action of sunlight , and of ultra-violet light , on organic substances has been studied by many observers* and on a vast number of substances .
The production of formaldehyde in a certain number of instances has been noted by different experimenters , but no one appears hitherto to have noticed the generality of the appearance of formaldehyde when any complex substance of vegetable or animal origin is exposed to light vibrations of short wavelength .
This may be due to the employment by us of a more delicate reagent , and to a systematic testing for the formaldehyde in all cases .
Certain of the observers , such as C. Neumann , and I ) .
Berthelot and Gaudechon , appear to consider a catalyst as essential to the reaction , and for The papers on the subject are too numerous to quote separately ; a key to the literature will be found in the following Ciamician and Silber , ' Berichte d. Deut .
Chern .
Gesellsch .
, from 1901 onward ; ' Atti Real .
Accad .
Lincei , ' from 1901 ; C. Neumann and Co-workers , 'Bio-Chem .
Zeitsch .
, ' from 1908 onward ; Y. Henri and Co-workers , Gomptes Rendus Acad , des Sci. , ' and ' Comptes Rendus Soc. de Biol. , ' from 1910 onwards ; and D. Berthelot and Gaudechon , 'Comptes Rendus Acad , des Sci. , ' from 1910 onwards .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
this purpose have used salts of uranium .
The reactions of de-duplication of these organic substances in dilute solutions take place , however , quite readily without a chemical catalyst .
The reactions are exothermic , and the light itself acts as the catalyst .
This production of formaldehyde has several important and interesting relationships which may now be pointed out .
In the first place , it has a practical bearing on all enquiries as to the presence of formaldehyde in green leaves exposed to light , or of chlorophyll solutions , or artificial schemata of various types , exposed to light and afterwards tested for formaldehyde to elucidate the functions of the chloroplast in the green leaf .
Many observers throughout the past generation have laboured at proving the presence of formaldehyde in green leaves exposed to light , but if it is so that practically any organic substance of bio-chemical origin exposed to light develops formaldehyde , then the presence of formaldehyde in green leaves furnishes no proof of its synthesis by sunlight from carbon dioxide and water .
The same holds for all the schemata , for these always contain substances from which : formaldehyde could arise .
But even although no other organic substance save chlorophyll , or any mixture of pure chlorophylls , were present and yet formaldehyde were formed in abundance on exposure to light , this would be of no avail as a proof of photo-synthesis of formaldehyde from the inorganic , for the same change would happen in a solution of cane sugar , and there is no proof that the chlorophyll is not simply behaving like a legion of other organic compounds and yielding formaldehyde by its own decomposition .
' \#166 ; It has recently been shown by Jorgensen and Kidd* that pure chlorophylls exposed as a suspensoid sol in water to light in presence of oxygen , at first bleach , and then yield formaldehyde .
When exposed in presence of nitrogen only or a full atmosphere of carbon dioxide no formaldehyde was produced .
Under natural conditions in the leaf and under all conditions of exposure to light of artificial schemata , used by previous observers , there has always been present atmospheric oxygen , so that this appearance of formaldehyde from pure chlorophyll emulsions after exposure to light confirms the view expressed here as the result of our experiments .
In the second place , the general production of foripaldehyde when these substances resolve themselves under the influence of light into simpler forms possesses a teleological bearing , for if in the uptake of solar energy the first storage from the inorganic be in the stage of formaldehyde , it would be very probable that in the process of unbuilding this step should be retraced .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 p. 342 ( 1916 ) .
Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
183 The general production of formaldehyde by the action of light on biochemical materials may also stand related to the important lethal effects of sunlight and ultra-violet light upon micro-organisms , which is seen in the sterilising action of sunlight upon many pathogenic organisms and in the similar use of ultra-violet light installations for sterilisation purposes .
The relationship of the lethal effects to the wave-length of the light has been studied by many observers .
Downs and Blunt* showed , at an early period , not only that both direct and diffuse sunlight inhibited the appearance and slowed the growth of organisms self-sown in Pasteur 's cultivation fluid , but that this action did not appear when the cultures were preserved behind red or yellow glass screens , while blue or violet glasses allowed light to pass which possessed as much deterrent action as light through clear glass .
Marshall Wardf was the first to invent an ingenious method of making the organisms record their own destruction , which has again been independently re-discovered by two other sets of investigators at intervals of several years .
The method consisted in throwing a spectrum , obtained by sending sunlight , or the light of electric arcs in air , through a quartz spectroscope , upon an agar-agar plate sowed over with the organism .
A number of slots were cut out on the covering lid of a shallow plate like a Petri dish , and some of these were covered with quartz and others with thin glass strips .
The spectra were directed through these on to the agar-agar culture .
The remainder of the surface was protected by an opaque cover of tinfoil .
After exposure for 12 hours the plate was incubated for four days and then the results were photographed .
" When the glass was interposed the only area of destruction was that of the blue and violet , but when the quartz only intervened between source of light and organisms the destruction passed far on into the ultra-violet region .
A quite similar method was used by Barnard and Morgan , $ who found the lethal action in the ultra-violet so intense that the bright spectral lines in the ultra-violet were mapped out as clearly almost as on a photographic plate .
These authors also determined the wave-lengths of the lethal zone of the spectrum , and found its limits to lie between 3287 and 22651 .
Quite recently the work has been independently repeated with similar results by Browning and Buss .
S Some of the authors quoted , especially Marshall Ward , consider the nature of the chemical reaction involved .
Marshall Ward draws attention to the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 26 , p. 488 ( 1877 ) ; vol. 28 , p. 199 ( 1879 ) .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 472 ( 1893 ) ; other papers by Marshall Ward on this subject , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , p. 393 ( 1892 ) ; vol. 53 , pp. 26 and 164 ( 1893 ) ; vol. 56 , p. 345(1894 ) . .
X 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 126 ( 1903 ) ; 'Brit .
Med. Journ. , ' November 14 , 1903 .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 90 , p. 33 ( 1917 ) .
Prof. B. Moore and Mr. T. A. Webster .
oxidising action of blue light upon oils , and considers it probable that the effect is due to such an oxidation of the fat-reserve and not a direct action on cell-protoplasm .
It is highly interesting that the chetnical reactions upon substances of biochemical origin , above described , are also produced by the same short wave-lengths as those which occasion death of organisms , as is shown by the enormous decrease in activity when the light is screened by passing through glass or mica .
Now the substances present in the bodies of the organisms are of those organic types which yield formaldehyde , as shown above , when exposed to the action of light vibrations of the shorter wave-lengths .
It is well known that formaldehyde in high dilution is poisonous to such living organisms and when produced nascently by the action of sunlight , or ultra-violet light , and probably at selective concentrations on interfaces , it is quite probable that the death of the whole organism might so be induced .
The action of the light would be progressive upon the living cell just as it is within quartz containers upon the more complex organic substances , and would manifest itself in a continuous hydrolysis of the more conjugated to less conjugated substances .
The first effect would be upon the state of colloidal aggregation of the system , but concurrently formaldehyde and other organic compounds of simple type would be set free .
It is noteworthy that formaldehyde and other simple related substances , such as would be the first stages in the evolution of the organic from the inorganic , are all highly poisonous to the much later product in evolution , namely , the living organism .
Such simple substances are formaldehyde , formic acid , oxalic acid , hydrocyanic acid , methylic and ethylic alcohols , hydrogen peroxide , and the simpler nitrites and nitriles ; all these are poisonous to the highly organised and labile colloids of the bioplasm , and , probably on account of that very property which makes them essential in the first stages of organic evolution , namely , their high reactivity and the ease with which they take part in additive reactions of organic substances .
For this reason they must undergo change in any living cell whilst still at high dilution , or else they so interlock into the labile system of organic colloids within the cell as to clog all metabolic change .
Hence it is that the energy of light , which is essential to healthy growth and the upbuilding of organic material from inorganic , supplied in a wrong fashion and not shielded in its onset , may reverse these delicate processes and cause death and degeneration of living substance , instead of being the potent agency towards building up fresh material .
The subject is one of enormous and far-reaching importance .
Blue light , Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds .
185 as shown by Marshall Ward , is the most universal and potent natural purifier of our oceans and streams and our supplies of drinking-water .
Light is also the agency which in spring , when the sun attains a certain altitude and less of the actinic light is absorbed by the atmosphere , penetrates the water of the ocean and lakes in sufficient intensity to stimulate the great outburst of vegetable plankton , which initiates the long sequence of swarms of animal life up to the fishes , and supports all the life of the seas .
This is evident , because the spring outburst of floating plant life occurs before there has been any rise in the temperature of the , sea-water .
The bronzing of the skin , caused by exposure to bright sunshine , and the pigmentation of human races in tropical climates , is almost certainly a protective screen against these injurious rays , and Marshall Ward has pointed out that the pigments of those micro-organisms and fungi which can flourish in light always absorb these injurious rays , and allow passage to the reds , greens , yellows , and oranges , which are not injurious Even blue and violet pigments occurring in nature , when carefully examined spectroscopically , are found in many cases to absorb the violet and shorter-waved blues .
The same is true of the colours of flowers , and even of the green colouring matters of the foliage leaves , and it may well be that the function of the chlorophyll , which usually occurs as a thin layer like a skin over the chloroplast , is to temper and screen the light for the really effective transformer lying underneath .
The absence or great diminution of the blue and ultra-violet rays in hazy or sunless weather may also be of great importance in allowing the disease organisms of the higher plants to flourish unchecked , and it is such weather in autumn which often heralds the outbreak of disease and blights .
Summary .
The results are recorded under three sections:\#151 ; ( a ) photo-synthesis by inorganic transformers ; ( b ) action of sunlight and of ultra-violet light upon concentrated solutions of formaldehyde ; ( c ) the general formation of formaldehyde by the action of light upon organic substances of bio-chemical origin .
In the first section , the reactions of a number of inorganic systems in presence of carbon dioxide and exposure to light are investigated , and it is shown that certain of these can build up formaldehyde while others are inert .
The activity is shown to be related to the development of an optimum degree of colloidality , and is not due to formation of higher or lower oxides , but more probably to surface condensation on interfaces .
The second section deals with the condensation of formaldehyde to form 186 Mr. A. Mallock .
Growth of with a Note on reducing substances leading to carbohydrates , and discusses the conditions favourable for such condensations .
The energetics of such a system are treated of in this section , and the effects of general or local concentration are considered .
The equilibrium point in reversible reactions is shown to be dependent on concentration .
In the concluding section a general reversible reaction is described as a result of which formaldehyde rises in all intense reactions of light upon substances of bio- chemical origin .
This reaction in presence of excess of light is an interesting reversal of the process by which all organic matter has been built up from inorganic sources .
The bearing of this process upon the germicidal action of sunlight , and the destruction of living organisms by ultra-violet light , is discussed , and it is pointed out that the simple organic products so formed are incompatible with the life-processes of living organisms , and so lead to their destruction .
Taking such a reaction as travelling in the reverse direction , it is shown that the building up of organic matter from inorganic must have been a necessary precedent to any existence of living organisms on the earth , and that all accumulations of reduced substances possessing stores of chemical energy must have arisen in this manner from storage of the energy of sunlight .
Growth of Trees , with a Note on Interference Bands formed by Rays at Small Angles .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received December 1 , 1917 .
) But little is known about the growth of wood , little that is as to the times and rates at which the growth takes place .
When a tree is cut down , its age and growth in a season can be determined by the number and dimension of the annual rings , at any rate where the annual rings exist and are well marked ; though it not infrequently happens that the rings are alternately weak and strong , so that some doubt may arise as to whether there have not been two periods of growth in one year .
Many tropical trees do not show annual rings at all , and in their case the age of the tree and its growth in a year cannot be found from an examination of a section .
' It would , I believe , be an assistance in Forestry could some fairly simple means be found for measuring rapidly , i.e. , in a few days , or even weeks , the

