An Account of Experiments for Determining the Variation in the Length of the Pendulum Vibrating Seconds , at the principal Stations of the Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain .
By Captain Henry Kater , F.R.S. Read June 24 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 337 .
] In this communication Captain Kater , having noticed the circumstances to which his researches owe their origin , proceeds to detail his investigations , and to describe the implements and apparatus employed in his various inquiries ; the construction of the pendulum and its appendages is minutely explained , as also the rate of its expansion for each thermometric degree , whence is deduced the corresponding correction to be applied to the number of its vibrations .
The operations at each station , with their results , are enumerated at length , and illustrated by numerous tables .
The length of the seconds pendulum for the latitude of London is 39 13722 inches in parts of the scale which forms the basis of the trigonometrical survey ; for the latitude of Unst 39 16939 inches , of Portsay 39-15952 , of Leith Fort 39-15347 , of Clifton 39-14393 , of Arbury Hill 39*14043 , and of Shanklin Farm 39-13407 inches .
The calculation of the latitude of each of these stations is given at length , to afford the opportunity of any further examination desirable on that subject ; but these and the other details relating to calculation do not admrit of abridgement .
Captain Kater concludes this paper with some observations respecting the figure of the earth .
It having been shown by Clairaut that the sum of the two fractions , expressing the ellipticity and the diminution of gravity , from the pole to the equator , is always a constant quantity , and equal to of the fraction , expressing the ratio of centrifugal force , and that of gravity at the equator , it follows that if the decrease of gravity from the pole to the equator be subtracted from this constant quantity , the remaining fraction will express the ellipticity of the spheroid .
The diminution of gravity may be known by finding the difference of the length of two pendulums , vibrating in equal times at the equator and pole , which are to each other directly as gravitation ; but as such experiments cannot be made at the pole , Captain Kater proceeds to describe the means of obtaining the desired result by observations at intermediate stations ; whence it appears that the length of the seconds pendulum at the equator , deduced from the observations at Unst and Dunnose , is 39*00527 inches , and gravitation at the equator 1 6040 feet ; hence the centrifugal force at the equator is -ffof gravitation , or -yof gravity , which last being multiplied by -gives -0086505 for the sum of the fractions , expressing the ellipticity of the earth and diminution of gravity from the pole to the equator .
It appears from this result that , excepting the allowance for height above the sea 's level , the error in the number of vibrations of the seconds pendulum at any particular station does not amount to 11th of a vibration , which is about equal to 400,000th part of the length , consequently gravitation may be determined to this degree of accuracy by the apparatus employed ; and in passing through a country composed of materials of various degrees of density , the pendulum may be expected to indicate such variations with much precision .
Irregularities that are observed in the decrease between given latitudes , from the pole to the equator , are referable to this irregular attraction ; thus the sudden increase of gravitation at Arbury Hill is referred by Captain Kater to the granite of Mount Sorrel in Leicestershire .
Though the details of M. Biot 's experiments are not yet published , the author observes that it affords him no small gratification to learn that the acceleration of the pendulum between London and Unst , computed by that mathematician from his observations between Unst and Formentara , differs only 0'"'6 from the result of his own experiments , -a difference referable perhaps to the superior density of Unst compared with that of the substrata of London .

