Disc ussion of Tide Observations made at Liverpool .
By J. W. LUBBOCK , Esq. F.RS .
Received and Read January 28th , 1836 .
I AM enabled , through the indefatigable perseverance of M. DEssIou , to present to the Society other Tables , in continuation of those published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1835 , Part I1 .
, founded upon the observations instituted by Mr. HUT CHINSON at Liverpool The chief intention of the Tables now offered is to exhibit the diurnal inequality in the height of high water , which is , I believe , insensible in the river Thames , but which at Liverpool amounts to more than a foot .
So that , for example , in January , when the moon is in quadrature , ( neap tides , ) the evening tide may be a foot higher than the morning tide .
Table XXVII .
gives the results as immediately deduced from observation .
rrable XXVIII ; was formed by reducing the argument , ( moon 's transit , ) by interpolation , to the even half-hours , and then taking the differences between the numbers so found and those in Table Ill.* The results exhibited in Table XXVILI .
are extremely irregular : these irregularities were arbitrarily removed in forming Table XXIX .
, which is intended to be used in predicting the phenomena .
As the question of the diurnal inequality of the tides is important , and as the numbers in Table XXVIII .
are so irregular , I have thought it desirable to exhibit them in a diagram , together with the inequalities definitively adopted in Table XXIX .
, in order that the nature and extent of the alterations we have introduced may be perceived .
The diurnal inequality in the interval appears to 1)e insensible .
BERNOULLI'S Theory of the Tides leads to the expressions It =D+E { A cos ( 2 2 a ) + cos ( 2 2 a ' ) } tan 2A sin42 Am cossaP3 E= C M ' cos82 P3 1+ A cos 2p MICos 2 a/ F3 h=D+E { cos 24+A cos ( 2 2 ) } , in which expressions a denotes right ascension , p sidereal time , b declination , m the mass of the luminary , P the sine of the horizontal parallax , Ca constant depending upon geographical latitude , and Da constant depending only on the zero line , from which the heights are reckoned .
The unaccented quantities refer to the sun , and those which are accented to the moon .
h is the height of the water above any given line , and 4 , is a small variable angle to be added with a certain constant to the time of the moon 's transit , in order to obtain the time of high water .
have ascertained that BERNOULLI'S expressions present a very remarkable accordance with observation .
But it must be recollected , that the phenomena of the tides at London and Liverpool cannot be considered as depending ( mechanically ) upon the coordinates of the sun and moon at the transit immediately preceding the times of high water ; and if I had taken in my discussions a transit more remote , the law of the intervals would not have been the same .
This difference in the law of the intervals depends upon the difference in the intervals between the successive transits of the moon .
Hence the law of the intervals , when the discussion is instituted with reference to the transit immediately preceding the time of high water , whether at London , Liverpool , or Breast , depends partly upon the phenomena as deducible from BERNOULLI'S expressions , and partly upon the law of the intervals between the moon 's successive transits , which latter interval may be considered roughly as depending upon her parallax and declination .
For practical tables intended to serve in predicting the phenomena , this is of no consequence ; but in order safely to compare the results of theory with those of observation , it is absolutely necessary first to obtain the law of the changes in the moon 's motion , which may easily be done .
This consideration does not apply to the heights .
I have little doubt from comparisons which I have made , and which I mean to extend , that the results of observation present a very remarkable agreement with BERNOULLI'S theory , and with the formulae in p. 57 , by which this theory is approximately represented .
In this comparison , however , it cannot be expected that the phenomena at any given place are the same ( as LAPLACE seems to irnply* ) as would belong to that geographical latitude , if the figure of the ocean were that of a perfect spheroid , and were not intersected by continents .
I apprehend that the inequalities of the tides at Breast are produced mechanically some time previous , and are not due to the position of the luminaries ( in a certain sense ) at the time of high water .
Mr. DEACON has furnished me with a continuation of Tables A , B , C , D , for the last six months of the year 1835 , which serve to show the degree of congruity in the observations at the London and St. Katherine Docks with each other and with the predicted tides in the British Almanac .

