2 .
" The Scholar 's Lute among the Chinese .
" By ?
Lay , Esq. Communicated by S. H. Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. The Kin , which is the stringed instrument here described , was the one played upon by Confucius and the sages of antiquity , and is therefore held sacred by men of letters .
It is made of the Woo-tung , or Dryandria cordifolia .
It is convex above and plane below , and is wider at one end than at the other ; it has two quadrangular aper ?
tures in the plane surface , which open into as many hollows within the body of the instrument : and it is furnished with seven silken strings of different diameters , which pass over the smaller end , and are distributed between two immovable pegs below .
A bridge within a short distance of the wider extremity gives these strings the necessary elevation and a passage to the under surface , where , by means of a row of pegs , they are tightened or relaxed at pleasure .
The length of the sounding-board is divided by thirteen studs of nacre , or mother-of-pearl , as a guide for the performer ; and they are placed so that the length of each string is bisected , trisected , he .
, that is , divided into aliquot parts as far as the eighth subdivision , with the omission of the seventh , the number of sections being repre ?
sented by the arithmetical series 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 0 , 8 .
Thus the intervals , or magnitudes of the different tones sounded by this instrument , do not accord with those produced on our violin , but agree more with the old Scotch music .
The study of this instrument , and the art of playing upon it , are rendered extremely difficult by the complexity of the Chinese notation of written music , which leads to frequent omissions and blunders .
Thus every air which a Chinese plays has cost him the labour of many months to learn ; and so tiresome is this acquisition , that the author has heard some extemporize very prettily without being able to play a single air .
Their performance , however , is very graceful ; and though the melody be simple , every scope is given to variety by the mode of touching the strings .
The author enters into an examination of the musical theory of the sounds produced by this instrument .

