On the Manufacture of the Sulphate of Magnesia at Monte della Guardia , near Genoa .
By H. Holland , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 13 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 294 .
] The site of this manufactory is about eight miles N.W. of Genoa , at about 1600 feet above the level of the sea , from which the top of the mountain is five miles distant , and elevated about 2000 feet .
The ascent from Sestri is by a deep ravine , the course of a torrent , the eastern side of which is composed of serpentine in vast masses , lying unconformably on primitive schist , and containing talc , steatite , asbestus , and many small veins of pyrites .
On the western side of the ravine are mountains of magnesian limestone .
In passing to the upper end of this ravine , the stratification of the primitive schist appears mixed with chlorite , slate , and other magnesian minerals , , and containing numerous veins or layers of pyrites , both of copper and iron .
The substance of these ores is schistose , as well as the rock in which they lie , and they are so intimately mixed with the same magnesian minerals , as to feel unctuous to the touch .
These , together with a certain portion of magnesian limestone , are the materials used in the manufacture of the sulphate of magnesia , in an establishment originally set up for converting copper and iron pyrites into sulphates of those metals .
The sulphate of magnesia was at first observed only as an accidental product , but has now become the principal object of the work .
For this purpose the pyrites is extracted from the mountain by tunnels , the largest of which is about 200 feet in length , and from 10 to 15 feet wide .
The ore is then broken into small pieces , roasted for about ten days , and being then collected in heaps , is kept moist with water for several months , during which the salts are forming .
The materials are then lixiviated , and after the liquor has been filtered through sand , the copper is first precipitated by refuse iron , after which a portion of lime , prepared from the magnesian limestone of the adjacent mountain , is added , in order to precipitate the iron , and at the same time to make some addition to the product of sulphate of magnesia .
The circumstance particularly to be attended to in this process , is the proportion of lime employed , which in general does not exceed nhrth of the weight of ore .
For if this were added in excess , it would occasion the precipitation of the magnesia along with the metals .
The whole produce of this manufactory , we are told , does not exceed 1I cwt .
per week ; but it is of very good quality , and is used extensively in Italy under the name of Sal Inglese .

