IX .
" Researches on the Action of Ammonia on Glyoxal .
" By Dr. H. DEBUS .
Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL , Received May 21 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) If alcohol be slowly oxidized by nitric acid at ordinary temperatures , besides other substances , glyoxal , C H11 O. , and glyoxylic acid , C02 I O0* , are formed .
I have continued the investigation of these substances , and beg to lay before the Royal Society some of the more interesting results .
Glyoxal , of the consistency of ordinary syrup , is mixed with about three times its bulk of strong ammonia , and the mixture kept for twenty minutes at a temperature from 60 ?
to 80 ?
C. The liquid now contains two organic bases-one in the shape of a crystalline precipitate , which I propose to call glycosine , and the other in solution , to which in this paper the name of glyoxaline will be applied .
Besides these two substances , only a little formic acid and the excess of ammonia can be recognized in the liquid .
Glycosine =C H6 N4 .
The crystals contained in the ammoniacal liquid are collected on a filter and washed with cold water .
By dissolving them in diluted hydrochloric acid , treating with charcoal and adding ammonia to the decolorized solution , the glycosine is obtained as a colourless , crystalline precipitate .
The crystals are little prisms , tasteless , inodorous , and only soluble in a great quantity of boiling water .
They become very electric when rubbed in a mortar .
A little glycosine placed between two watch-glasses and heated on a sand-bath , sublimes without leaving a residue , and produces magnificent prismatic needles , sometimes of half an inch in length .
It forms salts with acids , which generally crystallize well .
The chloride has a great tendency to form double salts with the chlorides of copper , mercury , and platinum .
Chloroplatinate , C , H 6N +2(HC 1 ClPt C1 ) , forms a fine yellow crystalline powder , soluble with difficulty in water .
An excess of water seems to abstract bichloride of platinum and hydrochloric acid .
Glycosine is formed from ammonia and glyoxal according to the equation3(C , 112 02 ) + 4N H3= C , H N , + 6 , Glyoxal .
Glycosine .
Water .
I showed on another occasion , that glyoxal has the properties of an aldehyde .
Its behaviour towards ammonia confirms my former conclusions .
The formation of amarine , from oil of bitter almonds , of acetonine from acetone and ammonia , takes place in a similar manner:3(C , H6 0 ) + 2N H3-3= C2 , H13 N+ 3H 20 Amarine .
3(C H , O ) + 2NH3= C , H1 N2 3H1 0 Acetonine .
In all other known cases , when from an aldehyde or the chloride of an alcohol radical and ammonia , a basic substance is formed , one or two equivalents of ammonia participate in the reaction .
If ammonia and glyoxal decompose each other , four equivalents of the first transfer their nitrogen to one equivalent of the base produced .
The direct derivation from ammonia of a base which contains four equivalents of nitrogen , seems to me to be very interesting .
The rational formula of glycosine is probably C2 H , N4 C2 H2 C , H , C2 H2 being equivalent to H4 .
It is worthy of notice , that in chemical decompositions very often three equivalents of an aldehyde unite and act like one molecule .
I will only mention , as examples , mesitylene , acetonia , thialdine , hydrosalicylamide , and amarine .
Glyoxaline =C3 , H N2 is obtained as binoxalate from the motherliquor of glycosine , if , after expelling the ammonia by gentle heating , an excess of oxalic acid is added .
The binoxalate crystallizes very well and may be purified easily .
The composition of it is expressed by the formula C3 HI N2 + C2 H2 04 .
The base is obtained from this salt by treating it with carbonate of lime , and evaporating the filtrate from the oxalate of lime to the consistency of a strong syrup .
Glyoxaline crystallizes with difficulty in prismatic crystals , radiating from one centre .
It is easily soluble in water , has a strong alkaline reaction , neutralizes acids perfectly , but does not appear to form a compound with carbonic acid .
It melts easily , smells like fish , and evaporates at a higher temperature in dense white fumes .
Chloride of copper forms a precipitate with glyoxaline , which is soluble in an excess of the base .
The chloroplatinate , C3 H11 N2+ HC1 PtCl2 , crystallizes in large red prisms , and is easily soluble in hot water .
The formation of glyoxaline takes place according to the following equation:2(C2 , H,02)+2N H3=C 1N2 +C H20 2 +2H11 Glyoxal .
Glyoxaline .
Formic acid .
Water .
Glyoxaline is homologous with sinnamine .

