III .
" On the Oxidation of Ammonia in the Human Body .
" By H. BENCE JONES , M.D. , F.R.S. , Physician to St. George 's Hospital .
Received June 14 , 1854 .
In the last edition of Professor Lehmann 's Animal Chemistry , vol. ii .
p. 363 , a very decided opinion is expressed against the conclusion to which I arrived in consequence of some experiments published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1851 .
I considered it proved that ammonia was partly at least converted into nitrous acid in its passage through the body .
In opposition to this Professor Lehmann states,1st .
That the method which I employed must of necessity give a reaction resembling that given by nitrous acid ; his words are , " Es ware nun leicht einzusehen dass schweflige Siure , durch welche bekanntlich Iodwasserstoff zersetzt wird , in die Vorlage iibergeht und so jene vermeintliche salpetersaure Reaction bedingt .
" 2ndly .
That when nitric acid was added to urine and it was distilled with phosphoric acid instead of sulphuric acid , no trace of blue colour with starch and iodide of potassium could be obtained .
" Das nach Anwendung von Phosphorsaure erhaltene Destillat giebt aber auch jene vermeintliche salpetersaure Reaction nicht , ja selbst dann nicht , wenn dem Ham vorher absichtlich einige Tropfen Salpetersaure zugesetzt worden waren .
" It appeared to me undesirable merely to reply to Professor Lehmann , that I had expressly stated that the indigo and protosulphate of iron tests were used , and gave as decided proof of the presence of nitrous acid in the urine as Price 's test gave ; and that sulphurous acid could not have produced the same effect as nitrous acid in these tests .
It seemed more desirable to repeat the experiments which had been made in Professor Lehmann 's laboratory on the action of sulphurous acid , and on the effect of using phosphoric instead of sulphuric acid in the distillation of the urine .
I was fortunate enough to obtain the assistance of Mr. Malone to carry on the experiments continuously from day to day , and through the kindness of Dr. Hofmann this was done in the College of Chemistry .
1st .
On the action of sulphurous acid on starch and iodide of potassium and very dilute hydrochloric acid , In England it is by no means well known that sulphurous acid decomposes hydriodic acid .
On the contrary , theoretically it should not liberate iodine , and experimentally not only does it not liberate iodine , but it hinders the liberation of iodine and stops the formation of the blue colour when Price 's test is used and nitrous acid is present ; and if sulphurous acid be added after the blue colour is formed it makes it disappear .
Pure sulphurous acid was prepared , some nitre was fused , and a dilute solution was made , and it was tested by Price 's test ( starch , iodide of potassium and very dilute hydrochloric acid ) , then the dilute nitre solution immediately gave the deep blue iodide of starch ; but when much or little sulphurous acid was added previously to the nitre solution , no blue colour at all was produced ; and when , instead of the nitre solution , much or little sulphurous acid alone was added , contrary to the statement of Lehmann , no decomposition of the hydriodic acid could be obtained .
If instead of pure iodide of potassium it was mixed with iodate of potassa , an immediate blue colour was of course observed .
I can only suppose that in this way Professor Lehmann obtained the reaction which he has attributed wrongly to the action of sulphurous acid on hydriodic acid , unless indeed no sulphurous acid at all was present and the acidity of the distillate was unneutralized .
Dr. Lehmann is however right as well as wrong , in saying that Price 's test for nitric acid fails when sulphurous acid is present .
lThe test fails , not , as he says , because sulphurous acid has the same action as nitrous acid in liberating iodine , but because it has exactly the opposite property of hindering the iodide from being set free even when nitrous acid in small quantity is present .
It is possible that in distilling the urine with sulphuric acid , the distillation , if carried too far , may give rise to sulphurous acid , and that thus Price 's test may fail to detect nitrous acid in the urine .
Moreover , portions of the distillate may be projected against the sides of the hot retort , by which the sulphuric acid acting on the organic matter may be decomposed , and minute quantities of sulphurous acid may be liberated .
This sulphurous acid , instead of decomposing hydriodic acid , causes the reformation of hydriodic acid when nitrous acid liberates iodine in Price 's test .
2ndly .
Lehmann states that experiments were made by distilling urine to which a few drops of nitric acid were added with phosphoric acid , and that then the distillate gave no reaction with Price 's test .
The following experiments were made with every precaution .
Anhydrous phosphoric acid was prepared , and it was found to be free from nitrous acid .
Some healthy urine was taken and some pure nitrate of potassa , in the proportion of two grains of salt to an ounce of fluid , and distilled with phosphoric acid ( ten ounces of urine , twenty grains of nitre , and one ounce of anhydrous phosphoric acid ) .
On concentrating , the neutralized dilute nitrous acid was detected by all the tests , namely , the indigo test , the protosulphate of iron and Price 's test .
In a second experiment , five ounces of urine with five grains of nitre and half an ounce of anhydrous phosphoric acid , gave nitrous acid by all the tests .
The distillation was continued until the contents of the retort were viscid .
In a third experiment , three ounces of urine with a grain and a half of nitre were distilled with three drachms of glacial phosphoric acid ; the distillate neutralized and evaporated gave no trace of nitrous acid ; the same urine with the same quantity of nitre and three drachms of sulphuric acid , when distilled , gave a distillate , which when neutralized and evaporated gave decided evidence of nitrous acid .
In my former paper I showed that by distilling with sulphuric acid when only one-tenth of a grain of nitre was added to each ounce of urine , nitrous acid could be detected .
From these experiments it appears that distillation with sulphuric acid is to be preferred to distillation with phosphoric acid ; but even with this last acid , when a grain of nitre is added to an ounce of urine , the nitrous acid can be detected .
I then endeavoured , by using phosphoric instead of sulphuric acid in distilling urine passed after a salt of ammonia had been taken into the stomach , to detect nitrous acid in the urine .
Two drachms of muriate of ammonia were taken in seven ounces of distilled water .
The urine was collected for six hours afterwards .
Twelve ounces of this urine were distilled with one ounce of phosphoric acid ( anhydrous ) .
The distillate , when concentrated , did not give any evidence of nitrous acid by Price 's test .
The same experiment was repeated with no better result .
In another experiment , sulphuric acid , six drachms to twelve ounces of urine , was used instead of phosphoric acid .
The distillate as soon as it was obtained gave the slightest precipitate with chloride of barium insoluble in nitric acid , showing that a trace of sulphuric acid was carried over into the receiver .
The distillate was made alkaline with pure carbonate of soda , evaporated , and nitrous acid was immediately detected by the indigo and iron test , as well as by Price 's test .
A portion of the distillate left exposed to the air , on the following day had lost the power of liberating iodine .
This arose from the nitrous acid passing into nitric acid .
Pure nitre gives no colour with starch , iodide of potassium and dilute hydrochloric acid , but when fused it produces the liberation of iodine immediately .
If the solution of fused nitre is exposed to the air it loses this property , but regains it when the solution is evaporated to dryness and refused and again dissolved .
In another experiment six ounces of urine passed before the muriate of ammonia was taken were distilled with half an ounce of sulphuric acid , the distillate was highly acid , and gave a slight precipitate with chloride of barium ; it was made slightly alkaline , evaporated to a small residue , and then gave no evidence of nitrous acid .
Then two drachms of muriate of ammonia were taken in seven ounces of distilled water , eight ounces of urine passed four hours afterwards were distilled with half an ounce of sulphuric acid .
The distillate was fractional ; the first portion gave no colour with starch test ; it contained a minute trace of sulphurous acid .
The second portion was highly acid ; it was made slightly alkaline , evaporated nearly to dryness , and then gave most positive evidence of nitrous acid by Price 's test , and also by decolorizing a deep solution of indigo .
Thus before the salt of ammonia was taken no nitrous acid could be detected in the urine , whilst after the ammonia nitrous acid was proved to be present , not only by Price 's test , but by the indigo test also .
In conclusion , it results from these experiments , -lst , That in Price 's test sulphurous acid produces exactly the opposite effect to nitrous acid , and even hinders nitrous acid from liberating iodine from hydriodic acid .
2ndly .
That phosphoric acid , when mixed with urine containing nitre and distilled very low , does liberate nitrous acid ; though when used instead of sulphuric acid , it does not enable the nitrous acid to be detected so readily as when the latter acid is employed .
Hence the experiments performed in Professor Lehmann 's laboratory by Herr Jaff6* , do not invalidate Price 's test for nitrous acid in the way Professor Lehmann supposes ; and by again repeating some of my former experiments , I still arrive at the conclusion that when ammonia is taken into the body nitric acid may be detected in the urine , but that the quantity which can be made to appear is so small that the most delicate method is required for its detection .
This however is no proof that a much larger quantity may not be lost in the process for obtaining it from the urine .

