]\gt ; of Light by Rain , Cloud , By A. MALLOCK , F.B.S. ( Received June 11 , 1919 .
) The effects of the diffusion of light by small particles may broadly divided into two classes , according as dimensions of the particleH are or small compared with the wave-length of the light .
In present note only the first of these classes is considered .
Rain , cloud and .
all consist of small spheres of water distributed at random in the air , and with very different degrees of concentration .
Their linear dimensions may exceed a tenth of an inch , in the case of rain , or be less than a thousandth of an inch in cloud and fog .
The action of individual spheres on incident light is iven in the theory of the rainbow .
Any direct ray from the source of is scattered but not uniformly , partly by external and partly by internal reflection ; ) when so many drops are contained in a given volume that none , or only a very of them , receive any direct light , each drop acts as a separate source , scattering such light as it receives from the others in every direction uniformly .
Let a source of light be situated within an indefinibely extended cloud , and let the drops be perfectly transparent , so that there is no real loss of light by absorption , and consider the illumination at such a distance from the source that no direct rays operate .
Since the total quantity of light passing through every spherical surface about the source is constant , it is clear that the illumination will vary inversely as the square of the distance from the source , and will be the same the of a small perfectly white plane surface ( which may be called a proof-plane ) at the same distance when fully exposed to the direct rays .
As to the rate at which direct illumination is reduced as the distance increases ; suppose that drops of diameter are contained in the volume If these were all placed side by side they would stop all direct rays , if ' as in reality they scattered at random through , some will screen others , and it becomes a question of probabilities to determine how far this screening action increases the chance of direct radiation reaching * Since the drops are circular in section , and since a hexagon is the regular figure ) nearly approaching a circle which can cover an area without overlap , the number of drops required to cut off all direct rays will exceed in the ratio of area of circle to that of the inscribed hexagon , but as in the present note the order of ) agnitmle rather than its exact value is considered , it is unnecessary to introduce this coo { iicient .
Mr. A. Mallock .
the .
side of the volume .
The problem is the same as the determination of the number of empty spaces which would probably be left on an area diyided into equal squares , when were thrown on it random .
The can be made into parcels in various ways , and these may falJ on any combination of the areas taken 1 , 2 , 3 , , at a time .
Questions of probability are rather notoriously liable to be estimaCed , but I believe that in this case the most likely result is that half the squares will be empty .
Also , that in the case of being probable number of empty squares is It may be noticed that , however small the quantity of water per unit volume , it is always possible to divide that quantity into a sufficient number of drops to cover the unit area , in the cases here considered , the permissible smallness is limited by the condition that the diameter must not be less than , say , ten -lengths , or roughly of an inch , and since the atmosphere at ordinary temperature contains about one part in 100,000 of water vapour , if this were condensed in the form of spheres inch in diameter it would require a column of air 20 inches long to contain a sufficient number of drops to stop , when placed side by side , all direct radiation , or to stop half the direct light when distributed at random in the same volume .
If the length of the ( or thickness of the stratum ) which halves the direct be denoted by may be taken as the coefficient of transparency of any collection of drops of constant size .
For drops a tenth of an inch in diameter would be 10,000 inches , and generally , the same obstruction to direct occurs when varies as the diameter of the drops .
On the assumption that no light is lost in the act 'of reflection , the diffused light at a distance from the source will vary as .
Thus , in the case of an unlimited sheet of or shower illuminated by the sun the tness of the proof-plane , if it faces the source of , is always constant in whatever position in the cloud it is observed , when within only a small multiple of from the boundaries ( front or back ) , part of the illumination , or loss of illumination , is by direct radiation , and part by diffused light or its ciency .
In such posit , ions the proposition .
that stars cannot be uniformly scattered through all space or that light is in some way lost in transmission , or that the greater number of the sta1s give no , or again , more improbably , tIlat visible space is bounded by something impervious to light .
Unless one or other of these alternatives were true , starlight vould be brighter than sunlight in nearly the same proportion as daylight from white clouds exceeds the light from the full moon .
when the distance from the source is great compared to the thickness of the cloud slteet .
of Light by , Cloud , or Fog .
brightness is affected by the hich that normal to ] proof-plane makes with the direct rays .
If a cloud contained a source of and was surrounded a reflector , the illumination of the enclosure would be every where constant and of the saule intensity as the source itself .
The diffusion of by cloud , etc. , follows Che same laws as the of heat in a nearly perfectly conducting body , and with this restriction regarding conductivity the same propositions apply to both as as steady flow is concerned , but since in the case of light the rate of conduction is the velocity of light , the variatio1l of flow in terms of time has no practical importance in this connection .
* The diffusion of light and heat in a perfectly .
sphere or in a long prism for ample , be compared .
If the sphere contains the source the Cness of the proof-plane turned to face the source is everywhere inversely as the square of the distance from the source , but that part of the intensity , vever , which depends on nsion is modified as the point of observation approaches within a few multiples of from the surface .
In the analogous case of the diffusion of heat , sinlilar changes of temperature would be if the proof-plane were backed by a substance impervious to heat .
When close to the surface , and with its back to the source , the intensity depends entirely on difTusion from that part of the sphere which lies between the ) the boundary facing it , which part is itself losing by direct radiation into space .
If the proof-plane is gradually turned so as to face the source , the temperature at the same time rises gradually to its full yalue .
The same of which determine the intensity for an internal source apply when the source is external , but in either it would ) difficult to compare the results of experiment with theory .
Such a parison , however , for prism or a bar , one end of which was exposed to a constant source of light , or kept at a constant high temperature while loss by radiation was on from the sides , could easily be made .
The effects of a cloud could be copied a tube .
an enlul'ion of colourless oil and water lit from above .
The intensity the section distaut from the surface would be proportional to would nearly uniform across that section if the lateral dimension of the smaJl compared to .
In an actual experiment the loss of * Fourier ( ' Traite de Chaleur , ' chap .
IX , p. 430 ) lecognises two coefficients of cunduction , which he calls the " " penetrnbilit6\ldquo ; and the \ldquo ; of the substance .
The first relates to radiant heat , and the second to ordinary conduction .
In the dili.usion of light the " " penetrabilito\ldquo ; and " " permeabilite\ldquo ; are identical . .
A. Mallock .
rellection and absorption would have to taken into account , and would resented in the exponent by an additional term on the properties of the fluids forming the , or of the bar .
Returning to the subject of the of by rain , , the following Table shows the effect of a shower or cloud in obscuring the direct light of source .
The difficulty of seeing objects a stratum not times in epends chiefly on the diminished contrast between and shade caused diffusion , and not on loss of definition ; the sun , for instance , can often be seen perfectly defined through a layer of cloud which reduces its light to a very small fraction of its unshaded intensity .
The quantities used in the computation of the Table are:\mdash ; Unit 1 I. Diameter of drop .
II .
number of drops in volume ' requisite to balve the directly transmitted light .
II1 .
1Length in inches of a column of the cloud of section- of the cloud of section which drops .
IV .
1Ditto in feet .
Thickness of the cloud in line of sight .
Water-content of cloud in volume htness of proof-plane exposed to direct from the source ( supposed distant ) .
Ditto .
Due to direct at distance from the lit boundary of the cloud .
Number of drops per unit volume of cloud .
VI .
Average distance between the drops .
These are related as follows:\mdash ; , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) ( 6 ) It has been ( as a not possible proportion ) that 1/ 100,000 .
of Light by , Cloud , or Fog .
here is an obvious connection between the opacity of a shower and the rainfall ; for the size , concentration , and velocity of the drops overn the latter , while the opacity to direct rays depends on the and concentration only .
If is the rate of rainfall and the velocity of the drop , ; and it llay be noted that a rainfall of in .
per day is equivalent to ?
in .
per sec. As far as I know , *there are no experiments or observations on the size of the drops which constitute rain , cloud , or fog ( although when the drops are very small some eyiaence on this point can be from the subtense of the halos they produce ) , nor has the velocity of moderate sized rain drops been measured .
The theoretical work of Stokes , in which viscosity is posed to control the retardation , to the exclusion of the inertia of the surrounding air , applies only to very minute particles .
If the equation is applied ) the results given in the ) , it will be seen that has been greatly overestimated , and that in the case of rain * Since this passage was itten my attention has been to the papers , which bear on the subject : Lenard , 'Meteorologische Zeitschrift , ' 1904 , p. 249 ; Schmidt , 'Meteorologische Zeitschrift , ' 1909 , p. 183 ; ( 3 ) Wiesner , ' Akad .
Sitzber vol. 104 , I , p. 1397 ( 1895 ) .
Lenard and Schmidt give determinations of the velocity of falling drops in terms of their diameter .
The methods employed were quite different , but the results are in substantial reement .
Sehmidt compareq his own and Lenard 's values with those given by a mula of the type velocity , radius drop ) .
The constants have been chosen bo as to make the formula agree with experiment for smnll values of As increases there is a considerable and growing divergence between the of the forluul the actually measured .
S 272 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
A of the Line the drops cannot forlll 1/ 100,000 of the total .
For , though the velocity of drops a tenth of an inch in diameter not been neared , oxdinaly observation of heavy rain will that it is not less than 10 .
per sec. , and thns with would be not less than .
] ) sec. , ?
, 100 in .
per rlay .
are no measures , I know , * of rainfall per second , or any short intervals , but it is not } possible a raCe of 10 in .
) day , or even more , be reached .
It may be inferred , however , that eyen in the heaviest rain is rarely as great as The case rather different for nlist , where the velocity of the drops is very small , but evenl when a is so densc as to make a street-lamp only visible at a distance of 10 .
( the densest while fog in my experience ) it will be found that either the drops must have ) much less than a thousandth of an inch in diametel or much less than TURE : A Study of the Line of Excited by By the Hon. .
J. sTIiuTT , , Imperial College , S. Kensington .
( Received June 17 , \mdash ; Lecture delivered June 19 , 1919 .
) ONTENTS .
PAGB S 1 .
Introductory 272 S 2 .
The Sodium ) Lamp 274 S 3 .
Radiation of the Lamp .
Minute Structure of the D Lines S 4 .
Resonance with D Light S 6 .
Breadth of the Resonance D Lines 278 S 6 .
Resonance Radiation at the First Ultra-violet Line 280 S7 .
Resonal ) and the Zeeman Effect 281 S 8 .
Stimulation of D Light by xcitation at the First Ultra-violet Line 282 S 9 .
The Two D Lines Separately Considel.ed 283 S 10 .
Polarisation 284 .
Connection between D Lines nd the Band Spectrum 285 of hitherto unpublished Experimental l 286 S1 .
lntroductory .
It was nised in the early days of spectrum analysis by Stokes and Kirchhoff that the absorption of by a sodium flame or by sodium vapour Wiesnel gives an account of the rainfall at Buitenzorg , and has measured the late of rainfall over intervals of .
) to 15 minutes .
In one case the rate of rainfall of nletres ) day nearly year ) recorded as lasting over minutes .

