]\gt ; Optical Properties of at the Critical Point .
By CLARENCE ( Communicated by Prof. J. T. Hewitt , F.R.S. Received July 11 , 1912 .
) Clausius has shown*that , assuming the molecules of a substance are spherical perfect conductors , Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory leads to the relation ' where is the dielectric constant as defined by Maxwell , and is the ratio of the volume actually occupied by the molecules to that apparently occupied by the molecules .
Therefore since the electromagnetic theory of light requires that the dielectric constant , should be very approximately equal to the square of the refractive index for light of infinite wave-length .
Dealing with unit volume of a substance of density volume of the molecules in unit volume , and , therefore , true density of the molecules ; that is , the mass of unit volume of molecules without intermolecular spaces .
The reciprocal is the true volume of mass of the molecules .
Were the absolute weight , , of a molecule of the substance known would be the true volume of a molecule .
Since the ordinary molecular weights of chemistry are relative numbers , the molecular refraction is proportional to the true volume of the molecules in a grammolecular quantity of the substance .
Since the magnitude of van der Waals ' equation is also proportional to the volume actually occupied by the molecules , it follows that constant .
'Warmetheorie , ' 1879 , vol. 2 , p. 94 ; .
also Maxwell , ' Electricity and Magnetism , 1872 , on conduction in compound media .
Optical Properties of Substances at the Critical Point .
367 This relation , which was first established by Guye , * has been tested thol.oughly by Traube .
In the case of a large number of organic liquids hydrocarbons , alcohols , ethers , esters , acids , aromatic and hydro-aromatic substances ) , the mean value of the constant is .
True it is that the values in individual cases differ considerably from the mean , those of carbon tetrachloride , benzene , chloro- , bromo- , and iodobenzene being particularly low , and those of methyl alcohol , ethyl alcohol , and acetic acid being somewhat high , but that the average experimental value , , of the constant must be near the true value is rendered probable by the following considerations .
Guye has examined inorganic and organic substances , and finds that , although their critical temperatures lie between the extreme values and absolute , their critical pressures between 30 and 115 atmospheres , and their molecular refractions between and , yet the mean value of the ratio of the molecular refraction to the critical coefficient , is , 75 per cent. of the values between and If molecular refraction , and 403molecular refraction , therefore ; or , since , where is the critical volume of a -molecular quantity , therefore The value is alnlost exactly the mean of the values of namely , obtained by for ethyl ether , ethyl acetate , [ $nd benzene , and deduced by in another mamler .
S Considerable reliance , therefore , may be placed on the value for the ratio of to the molecular refraction .
Theoretically , the specific refraction , ' of a substance should be independent of the temperature , pressure , and state of .
This has been shown to be very approximately the case by the experiments of Lorenz Prytz , Bleckrod Chappuis and Biviere .
Assuming , therefore , that the specific refraction is constant for all temperatures up to the critical point , Traube 's equation , after dividing both sides by the value of the molecular weight , can be written ' Ann. Chim .
Phys 1890 , [ 6 ] , vol. 21 , p. 206 .
' Ann. der Phys 1901 , vol. 5 , p. 552 .
' Ann. Chim .
Phys 1890 , [ 6 ] , vol. 21 , p. 211 .
S ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1895 , vol. 16 , p. 1 ; 1900 , vol. 32 , p. 125 .
'Wied .
Ann 1880 , vol. 9 , p. 70 .
, 1880 , vol. 11 , p. 104 .
' Journ. de Phys 1884 , [ 2 ] , vol. 4 , p. 109 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1884 , vol. 37 , p. 339 .
'Ann .
Chim .
Phys 1888 , [ 6 ] , vol. 14 , p. 5 .
Mr. C. Smith .
Optical Properties of [ July 11 , where now refers to unit mass of the substance and is the refractive in dex at the critical temperature .
Since therefore , whence ; that is , all substances at the critical point the refractive The validity of the assumption on which this deduction rests , namely , that the specific refraction is constant for all tures , must be verified experimentally , but , accepting it as true , data are available for alculating the value of for different substances .
When the critical density , , of a substance is known , cau be calculated from the equation ( 1 ) If is unknown , can be calculated approximately by using Mathias 's relation here d is the density of the liquid at a nperature , well below the normal boiling point , and Equation ( 1 ) then becomes .
( 2 ) The data used in the accompanying tables have been taken mainly from ' Landolt-Bornstein Physikalisch-Chemische Tabellen ' ( 1905 ) .
Some of the critical densities are the experimental values , others have been calculated by the Law of the Rectilinear Diameter .
The experimental determination of the critical density is a matter of extreme difficulty .
Moreover Young has shown*that Cailletet and Mathias 's law holds accurately only for pentane ; for other substances the diameter is curved , and therefore the critical density cannot be determined graphically with any great degree of accuracy .
Now , the values of should be , theoretically , those of the absolute refractive indices calculated for light of infinite wave-length .
However , the data for such calculations are not very abundant .
As a first approximation in this introductory paper , then , the refractive indices at the critical point are those , lelative to air , calculated for the lin .
The value , , of Traube 's constant is calculated from the molecular refractions of substances at for the line .
For the line , therefore , the constant will have a slightly different value , but since the last step in the calculation of the critical refractive index is the solution of a square root , the error introduced by calculating for the line ( instead of the line , with which the theoretical 'Phil .
Mag 1900 , vol. 50 , p. 291 .
1912 .
] Substances at the Critical Point .
value , , of corresponds ) will be small in comparison with the probable errors in the values of the critical densities .
The results collected in the accompanying tables show that the refractive indices of the most diverse substances at the critical temperature approximate very closely to the theoretical value .
In the tables , Columns I and the temperature and the critical temperature respectively , in degrees centigrade .
Columns II and V give the densities of the substances at the temperature and the critical temperature respectively , refelred to water at .
Column III shows the refractive index for the line at the temperature ( and at the normal pressure in the case of gaseous substances ) .
The calculated values of are given in Column Column shows the difference of from the theoretical value , Table I.\mdash ; Gases and Vapours .
The densities in Column II are those of the fases at and 760 mm. Table II .
\mdash ; Inorganic Liquids and Condensed Gases .
370 Optical Properties of at the Critical Point .
Table III.\mdash ; Organic Liquids .
A study of the preceding tables shows the remarkable constancy of the critical refractive index .
In the majority of cases the difference from theoretical value is well within 1 per cent. , whilst the greatest erence is only .
No matter whether the substance under consideration is a difficultly liquefiable gas like oxygen , having a refractive index and a density at , or an easily condensible like sulphur dioxide , or a heavy organic liquid like methyl acetate , a density and refractive index , no matter whether the critical refracbive index is calculated for a substance in the liquid or in the gaseous state , the value of approac'nes very nearly to the theoretical value , There can be little doubt , therefore , as to the truth of the statement that all substances have the same refractive index at the critical point .
The preceding examples have not been selected ; substances have been taken at random , as the data for the calculation of have been available .
Some apparent exceptions have been discovered , which are given in Table At the present stage of the investigation it is impossible to give any satisfactory reason for these discrepancies .
It is noteworthy , however , that the substances in Table are either aromatio substances or contain a halogen .
Evidently the whole subject of the variation of the refractive index over a range of temperature extending up to and beyond the critical temperature requires experimental treatment .
This field of investigation the author wishes to reserve .
If the equality of the critical refractive indices of substances is verified by experiment , consequences of importance can be deduced .
Some of these are the evaluation of and of the critical density , and the temperatures of comparison of molecular volumes ; moreover , doubtless the fact that the velocity of light is the same through all substances at the critical point will lead to important conclusions in connection with the netic theory Optical Investigation of llised Nitrogen , etc. Table VII .
Percentage difference .
( liquid ) Chloroform ( liquid ) Chlorobenzene Bromobenzene Iodobenzene of light and the electronic theory of the constitution of matter .
These developments , however , are reserved for later treatment , after the fundamental assumption has been tested by experiment .
Optical Investigation of llised Nit'rogen , Argon , and some of the simpler Organic Compounds , of Low Melting Points .
By WALTER WAHL , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received June 21 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) Nothing is known about the crystallographic properties of the elements gaseous at ordinary temperatures and of many of the most simply constituted organic bodies .
As it is not probable that the preparation of well-developed single crystals , nor the measurement of such crystals by the methods now used for crystal measurements , would be successful , some observations on the solid forms of these bodies by crystallo-optical methods have been undertaken and will be described in this paper .
The experimental difficulties are too great to permit of an investigation as complete as that which may be undertaken with substances crystallising at ordinary temperatures , but in spite of the character of the results obtained , they throw

