II .
" Results of hourly Observations of the Mag , netic Declinationi made by Sir Francis Leopold M'Clintock , R.N. , and the Officers of the Yacht 'Fox , ' at Port Kennedy , in the Arctic Sea , in the Winter of 1858-59 ; and a Comparison of these Results with those obtained by Captain Maguire , R.N. , and the Officers of H.M.S. ' Plover , ' in 1852 , 1853 , and 1854 , at Point Barrow .
" By Major-General SABINE , R.A. , President .
Received December 21 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) NWhen about to undertake a voyage to the Arctic Sea in 1857 , in the yacht 'Fox , ' in search of the ships of Sir John Franklin 's expedition , Captain M'Clintock requested that the Royal Society would supply him with such information and instructions as might enable him to make the best use of the opportunity which the voyage was likely to afford for the prosecution of magnetical and meteorological observations .
As the present communication is limited to a discussion of the hourly observations of the declination made by Captaini M'Clintock and his officers from December 1 , 1858 to March 31 , 1859 inclusive , the portion of the instructions with which Captain M'Clintock was supplied which relates to such observations forms an appropriate introduction .
It is followed by a full statement from Captain M'Clintock himself of the circumstances under which an observatory was established on the ice at a distance of 220 yards from the ship , and hourly observations maintained during five months of the arctic winter , being only discontinued when , on the return of a more genial season , the services of both officers and sailors were required in prosecuting the more immediate objects of the expedition .
On the return of the 'Fox ' to England , the observations were sent , through the Royal Society , to the Woolwich establishment for the reduction and publication of magnetic observations .
The results of the observations treated of in this paper are discussed in comparison with those obtained from similar observations made by Captain Maguire and the officers of IJ .
M.S. 'P lover ' at Point Barrow , on the shore of the Arctic Sea , 1200 miles distant from Port Kennedy ( Captain M'Clintock 's Station ) , in the winters of 1852-53 , and 1853-54 , published in the Phil. Trans. for 1857 , Art .
xxiv .
The first point established conclusively by this comparison is , that , after due allowance has been made for the difference in the antagonistic force of the horizontal portion of the earth 's magnetism by which any disturbing action on the declination-magnet is opposed at the two stations , the intensity of , the disturbing force is considerably less at Port Kennedy than at Point Barrow-that is to say , less at the station which is nearest to the points of 900 of dip , and of the maximum of the total terrestrial magnetic force , than at the station which is more distant from those points .
The indication thus derived from the magnetic record at the two stations accords with the fact of the far greater frequency of the aurora at Point Barrow , where in the two winters its appearance is recorded on six days out of every seven , whilst the proportion at Port Kennedy is not more than one day in four .
For the purpose of examining the periodical laws of the disturbances at Port Kelnedy , those which exhibited the largest differences from their respective normals of the same month and hour , amounting to between one-fourth and one-fifth of the whole body of the hourly observations , were separated from the others , and were subjected to analysis in the customary manner .
It is thus shown that both at Port Kennedy and at Point Barrow the disturbances so treated form themselves into distinct categories of easterly and westerly deflection , the curve representing the easterly deflections having the same general form and single maximum as that of the easterly deflections at Kew , exhibited in P1 .
XIII .
fig. 1 of the Phil. Trans. for 1863 , Art .
XII .
; and the westerly curve having the same general form and double maximum as is seen in fig. 2 of the same Plate , representing the westerly deflections at Kew .
A remarkable correspondence is pointed out in regard to the hours at which the maxima of easterlv and westerly deflection take place at Port Kennedy and Point Barrow .
The maximum of easterly deflection occurs at the same hour of absolute time at the two stations ; and the maximum of westerly deflection at the same hour of local time at the two stations .
The author concludes by taking a general review of the phenomena of the solar-dlurnal variation , particularly in the vicinity of the dip of 90 ' , where the geographical and magnetical directions of the magnetic needle are often strongly contrasted .
At Port Kennedy the normal direction of the magnet is 350 to the east of south , and at Point Barrow 410 to the west of north : the contrast at the two stations in this respect is therefore nearly as great as can exist in any part of the globe , wanting only 60 of 180 ' , or of being diametrically opposite .
The solar-diurnal variation at these stations furnishes an apt illustration of the author 's exposition .
He further takes the occasion of the phenomena of the disturbance diurnal variation at Port Kennedy , and at Nertschinsk in Siberia , to show __ the caution which is lnecessary in endeavouring to derive the epochs of the decennial period from the magnitude of the diurnal range of the declination-magnet , and the preference due to the variation in the amount of the disturbances in different years .

