]\gt ; : XV .
On the Specific Heat and oth er , sicat aracters of JIixtures of Tethylic Alcohol and Water , and on certain relations exisfing the Heat of a Nixture or Solution and the Heat evolved or absorbed ) their formation , .
A. DUPR , Ph. D. , Lecturer on at Westminster Hospitat .
WILLIAM ODLING , Received Apri14 , \mdash ; Read lsfay 16 , 1872 .
THE pure methylic alcohol was prepared to the following process , devised by Mr. .
Rectified wood-spirit is mixed with its own bulk of a saturated solution of calcium chloride , the mixture is heated to and allowed to stand over night .
The layer of oil found floating on the surface is carefully removed , and the fluid underneath is mixed with about one volume per cent. of a saturated solution of lead acetate .
An amount of sulphide of ammonium , not quite sufficient to ecipitate all the lead , is next added , the precipitate , which carries down much colouring-matter and many minute globules of oil , is filtered off , or allowed to subside , and the clear fluid is distilled .
To this distillate caustic soda in coarse powder is added , and after , some time it is diluted with water and again distilled ; much resinous matter is thus lemoved , and the acetate of methyl is decomposed .
specific gravity of this second distillate is now brought to about ( if necessary , by treatment with potassium carbonate ) , after which it is mixed with one fourth of its bulk of a saturated solution of bisulphite of ammonium .
The mixture is allowed to stand for several days , and is then filtered and distilled from a water-bath ; to the distillate a little sulphuric acid is added , and it is then redistilled , also from a water-bath .
Finally a excess of caustic soda is added , and the liquid is once more distilled , when pure methylic alcohol passes over , which is rendered anhydrous by seyeral distillations over caustic lime .
The purity of the spirit is tested by oxidizing 20 of it with an excess of bichromate of potassium and sulphuric acid , when it should yield nothing but carbonic acid and water .
The spirit thus prepared was perfectly miscible with water in every proportion ; it had at C. a specific ravity o , boiled at C. at a pressure of millims. , and had a specific heat of between the temperatures of and SECTION SpeciJic Heat .
The mixtul , the specific heat of which is to be estimated , is enclosed in a small annular brass vessel , which can be closed hermetically by means of a .
In the inner cylindrical space a -wheel is fixed , .
as a stirrer when the vessel is * For tho method employed for the preparation of mixtures of the exact desired , scc Scction PIDCCCLXXII .
2 heat of mixtures of ethylic alcohol and water Transactions , , owing principally to the difficulty of keeping the temperature of the steam-oven stant for a sufficient of time when the vapour of methylic alcohol , instead of steam , is used for heating .
Methylic alcohol has , however , too a boiling-point for the successful application of the former method .
From the data obtained the specific heat of the mixture is calculated by help of the following formula:\mdash ; wherein is the specific heat sought , the water value of calorimeter and contents ( water , thermometer , and calorimeter itself ) , temperature of calorimeter at the temperature of calorimeter at end , dded , temperature of steam-oven , weight of mixture employed , water value of annul brass vessel , temperature of calorimeter at end , without correction .
In the Table the experiments marked with an asterisk were made with methylic alcohol of one preparation , those not so marked spirit of another preparation .
TABLE I. Amount of water in calorimetcl Water value of imeter 8 grms. ater value of annular brass vessel ( ) was 6.8337 grms. in all experiments with an asterisk , and glms .
in the others .
Water value of immersed part of thermometer Time occupied in each experiment , ) to minutes .
PIIYSICAL CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES Spirit 10 per cent. Mean specific heat of spirit of 10 per cent. Spirit 20 per cent. lIean specific heat of spirit of 20 cent. Spirit 30 per cent. Mean specific hcat of spi1it of 30 cent. Spirit 40 per cent. Mean specific heat of spirit of 40 per cent. Spirit 50 per cent. Mean specific hcat of of 50 per cent. tempcraturc of air .
, correction DR. A. DUPRE ON THE SPE CIFIC HEAT AND OTHER Spirit 60 per cent. specific heat of spirit of 60 per cent. per cent. Mean specific heat of spirit of 70 per cent. Spirit 80 per cent. Mean specific hcat of spirit of 80 per cent. Spilit 90 per cent. Mean specific heat of spirit of 90 per cent. Spirit 100 per cent. Mean specific heat of absolute methylic alcohol 5 PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES AND SOLUTIONS .
TABLE IL SECTION II.\mdash ; Heat produced by the of Methylic Alcohol and Water .
The amount of heat produced is estimated as follows : \mdash ; An annular vessel made of thin brass , such as described in the section Specific Heat , and capable of holding about 100 cub. centims. , is immersed in the water of the calorimeter .
The vessel has two openings provided with short tubes , which reach above the surface of the water when the whole body of the vessel is submerged .
Through cne of these tubes passes tightly a rod connected with an efficient stirrer moving up and down the annular space ; the other tube rries a small glass funnel which can be closed by a stopper .
The experiment is conducted as follows:\mdash ; One of the two liquids is weighed out in the brass vessel , the other is weighed out in a thin glass bulb , the quantity of liquid remaining in the bulb when it is emptied , and that which adheres to the sides of the small funnel , which experience had shown to be a very constant quantity , being allowed for , so that the exact amount of liquid necessary is delivered into the brass vessel .
The brass vessel is now fixed in its proper position in the calorimeter , which is then filled with water a little below the temperature of the room ; and the glass bulb containing the other liquid is also immersed in the calorimeter .
After the ] apse of fifteen minutes , the water in the calorimeter having been stirred from time to time , the temperature of the various fluids has become equalised .
The glass bulb is now taken out without touching it with the hand , and its contents are poured lapidly through the funnel into the brass vessel ; the funnel is closed , and the two fluids in the brass vessel thoroughly mixed by means of the stirrer .
The temperature of the water in the calorimeter , which is constantly stirred , reaches a maximum in from 4 to 5 minutes ; it is observed during 2 or minutes longer , and any observed is added as a correction to the temperature reached .
As , however , the whole rise is small , this correction usually amounts to very little , and frequently to nothing .
From the data thus obtained the heat produced by mixing the liquids in the brass vessel is calculated , the water value of the mixture in the brass vessel being of course added to the water value of the calorimeter and contents .
SECTION III.\mdash ; Boiling-points .
For methods and instruments employed in estimating the boiling-points , specific gravity and rate of expansion , and the compressibility* ( Sections III .
, V. , and see the paper " " On the Specific Heat and other Physical Characters of Mixtures of Ethylic Alcohol and Water by A. DUPRE , Ph. D. , and F. J. M. PAGE , B.Sc. , Phil. Trans. 1869 , p. 591 , Sections III .
, , and Table .
gives the boiling-points found , the barometer standing at millims. The third column gives the boiling-points calculated on the assumption that they are to the weight of the * Instead of using an air-pump for forcing air into the apparatus , an iron bottle containing liquid carbonic anhydride was employed .
The water in the apparatus being covered with a layer of oil , to prevent absorption of carbonic anhydride , any desired pressure could easily be by simply turning the screw-valve of the iron bottle to the requisite extent and time .
PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES AND SOLUTIONS .
337 TABLE CTION 1.\mdash ; Capillary Attraction .
The capillary attraction is estimated as follows:\mdash ; A somewhat wide glass cylindel , the of which is accurately glound , stands on a metal frame with three levellingscrews , by means of which the rim of the cylinder can be placed perfectly horizontal .
On the rim rests a stout metal bar , through which are .
drilled three holes exactly at right angles to the lower face of the bar , so that a tube or screw fitting into one of these holes will stand vertical when the of the cylinder is horizontal .
Two of these holes carry capillary tubes ; in the third a long fine sclew , pointed at both ends , can be screwed up and down .
A mark is etched on each tube , and by depressing or raising the tube the liquid under examination is always made to rise exactly to this mark ; the influence of any irregularity in the bore of the tube is thus avoided .
The experiment is conducted as follows:\mdash ; The perfectly clean capillary tubes are put into .
respective holes in the plate , and this is placed on the levelled rim of the cylinder .
The mixture to be examined is pouled into glass , and a small quantity of the liquid is sucked through each of the tubes by means of a suction-tube .
The height of the tubes is then adjusted so that the lower part of the menisci just touches the marked point of the tubes .
The screw is now carefully sclewed down until the point just touches the surface of the liquid in the cylinder ; this contact can be made with the utmost nicety .
It now only remains to determine the vertical distance between the upper point of the screw and the lowest part of the two menisci in the tubes , when , the total length of the screw being known , the elevation of the liquid in the capillary tubes becomes .
The vertical distances are measured by means of a very excellent cathetometer , which allows the reading of millim. Table .
gives the results obtained .
Column 1 gives the percentage of methylic alcohol by weight .
Columns 2 and 3 give the observed heights of the threads in millims. Columns 4 and 5 give the heights supposing water stood at 100 millims. Column 6 gives the mean of columns 4 and 5 .
Column 7 gives the length of a column of water equal in weight to the thr , of TABLE Specific Gand Rate of Expansion .
The mixtures are made by accurately weighing out the required quantities of absolute methylic alcohol and water .
This is done in two separate flasks , which are afterwards joined together , , by a short india-rubber tube ; and the ough mixture is effected bylepeatedly pouring the fluids from one flask into the other through the tube .
In some of the mixtures a considerable rise in temperature takes place , but as the mixing is effected in a closed vessel no loss of alcohol is expelienced .
The flasks , still kept connected , are allowed to cool ; the mixture is put into a bottle , which should not be less than three quarters filled , and the air is exhausted ffom the bottle .
In this state the bottle is allowed to stand over night , by which means the air dissolved in the mixture is got rid of without appreciable loss spirit .
Table .
gives the observed specific gravities of the nlixtures at the temperatures of and C. , water at C. , taken as the unit , together with the calculated specific gravities at and the difference between the observed and calculated specific gravities .
Table .
gives the expansion of 100 volumes of the mixture when heated from to C. , calculated from the data of the previous Table .
The figures in column 4 are calculated on the assumption that the expansion is proportional to the volumes of the constituents , the contraction taking place on mixing being allowed for .
To facilitate this calculation ( as also the compressibility ) , Table VIII .
gives in columns 2 umes oCHABACTERS OIXTU 1 a temperature of C. , in 100 volumes of a spirit of the strength given in column 1 .
Columns 4 and 5 give the combined volumes of the two , before and after mixture respectively ; and , lastly , column 6 gives the differences between 4 and 5 , thus showing the amount of contraction having taken place in the formation of 100 volumes of the various mixtures .
The figures in this Table are calculated from those given in Table By help of this Table the numbers contained in column 4 , Table , have been calculated thus : Let .
be the volume per cent. of water contained in the mixtulc at C. , the volume per cent. of methylic alcohol present at the same tule , and the amount of contraction which has taken place in formation of 100 volumes of this mixture at C. , Then 100 volumes of this mixture at C. would occupy at volumes , on the assumption that the expansion is proportioned to the volumes of the constituents .
The capacity of the specific-gravity bottle employed was at C. cub. centims. , at C. cub. centims. This bottle was brought to the exact temperature desired by immersion in a waterbath of special construction , for details of which see Philosophical Transactions , lS69 , p. 608 .
DR. A. DUPR ON THE HEAT AND OTHEiR TABLE TABLE VIII .
Compressibility .
Table IX .
gives the compressibility of the various mixtures for the pressure of one atmosphere .
The numbers in column 5 are calculated on the assumption that the compressibility of a mixture is proportional to the volumes of constituents .
To the compressibilities found directly , is always added as a correction for the compressibility of the iezom tree .
PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES AND SOLUTIONS .
Weight of water contained in piezometre at C. grms. 1 millim. of capillary gauge cub. centim. All lelations pointed out in the former paper , as existing between the various properties of mixtures of ethylic alcohol and watel , find their parallel in the mixtures now under consideration .
Certain sets of properties come to a maximum deviation from the calculated mean at the same strength ; in some cases the values found are always below , in others vays above the calculated mean ; and in both tures the rate of expansion shows the same singulal peculiarity , viz. of being certain mixtures below , for others above the mean .
Undoubtedly all the various physical characters of mixtures must , to a certain extent , be dependent on each other , and no explanation of the relation existing between any two of them can be leceived which is not compatible with every other property observed .
The relation existing between some of these eems , however , to be more intimate and direct than it is veen others .
Thus in this , as in the previous ture , the specific heat and the heat evolved during mixture not only come to a maximum deviation from the mean in mixtures of the same strength , but all mixtures the same amount of heat during their formation possess a specific heat elevated to the same amount above the mean ; and , moreover , the numerical relation between these two values is the same mixtul.es of every degree of strength .
Hence , if the heat evolved in the formation of 5 grms. of any of the mixtul.es be divided by , the elevation of the specific heat of this particular mixtm.e above its calculated mean value is Between the boiling-point and the capillal.y attraction a somewhat similal .
lelation is found .
If in this case the observed depression of the capillal.ity of any mixture below its calculated mean value be divided by ( the capillarity of pure water taken as 100 ) , * In the paper on Mixtures of thylic Alcohol and Watcr , previously quoted , the numbers in the corrcsponling column ( column 2 , Table XIII .
) should be divided by four .
It been pointed out above that an intimate relation exists between the heat evolved during .
the formation of a mixture and its specific heat .
This relation may be formulated as follows , in accordance with the principles of the mechanical theory of heat , as first inted out by HOFF in 1858 Ueber einen Satz der mechanischen rmetheor und cinige desselben ; von G. KIRCHHOFF Pogg .
Ann. vol. xiii .
p. 177 ) .
Relation existing between the specific heat of mixtures and the heat evolved during their formation:\mdash ; 1 .
The difference between the number of heat-units evolved during the mixing of given weights of substances at the temperatules and respectively is equal to the difference between the number of heat-units required to raise the mixture , and that required to raise the two constituents taken separately , the lower to the higher temperature , provided the condition of the mixtures when they have been brought to the same temperature is the same in both cases .
Or let and be the units of heat evolved by mixing and at the temperatures and respectively , , and the specific heat of the mixture and its constituents and respectively , then 2 .
If more units of heat evolved at the higher than at the lower temperature , the specific heat of the lesulting mixture will be below the calculated mean ; on the other hand , the specific heat of the mixture will be above the calculated mean , if the greater number of heat-units be evolved at the lower tempelature .
3 .
The absorption of a lesser number of heat-units will be of equivalent to the evolution of a greater number , while the absorption of a greater number will be equivalent to the evolution of a smaller number of heat-units .
Eth , y lic Alcohol and Water .
In the formation of 5 glms .
of a 10 cent. mixture of ethylic alcchol and water are erolved , at a temperature of C. , units of heat .
C. , 7.97 \ldquo ; Difference PHYSICAL tRACTEBS OF AND SOLUTIONS .
raise 5 grms. of the mixture from 1 C. to requires ) units .
grms. water through same interval . . .
) .
alcohol , , , , . . .
Total for constituents separately . . .
, , Difference between mixtul.e and constituents . . . .
In the formation of 5 grms. of a 30 per cent. mixture are evolved , at a temperature of C. , units .
C. , C. , To laise 5 grms. of this mixture from to lequires units , to , , To aise 3 watel from to units . .
alcohol , , , units lequired to aisc constituents , , To raise glms .
water from to lequires .
alcohol , , , , Total units required to raise constitucnts , , 22162582difference in units of heat evolved .
, , , , required .
, , : , evolved .
, , , , required .
The differences betwcen theol.y and experiment are , therefolc , in the abov at , extremely small and quite within the limits of almost unavoidable experimental error .
The number of units of heat evolved during the mixing of ethylic alcohol ater becomes therefore less the the tempelature at which the takcs place .
Assuming , then , that the above given formula ( No. 1 ) is COl.rect , it is easy to calculate a temperature at which of alcohol and water would not be accompanied by evolution of heat .
becomes when Let be the units of heat evolyod in the formation of 5 grms. of xtule at the temperature , then the , at which no heat is cvolved on mixing , will be On making this calculation for the various mixtures examined , this temperature was found to be , and C. for mixtures of are due to dissociation .
For evely given temperature an may exist between the free alcohol and water on the one hand , and the compound formed between the two on the other .
A lise in be accompanied by dissociation of some of the compound present , and consequent absorption of heat ; a fall of temperature , on the othel hand , would then be accompanied by leunion and consequent liberation of heat , whereby the apparent specific heat of the mixture would be augmented .
The same idea has ah.eady been advanced by DLEB , and also by MARIGNAC , to account for the obselved deviations of the specific heat of many mixtures from their calculated mean value .
A closer examination of some of the other properties of these alcoholic mixtures does not , however , tend to confirm this supposition .
Thus , as is well known , considerable contraction in volume follows the mixing of alcohol and water ; but this contraction is not , as be supposed , in any degree proportional to the amount of heat evolved .
Thus the maximum contraction takes place in a mixture containing about 45 per cent. of alcohol , whereas the maximum amount of heat is evolved at an alcoholic strength of about 30 ccnt .
The maximum elevation of the specific heat above its calculated mean value is also observed at this strength of 30 per cent. ; and hence , in order to reconcile the above theory with fact , we must assume on the one hand that the amount of combination taking place at any given temperature is greatest when 30 parts of alcohol are mixed with 70 pal of water , and on the other that a given rise of temperature will produce in this mixture of alcohol and water a gleater amount of decomposition or dissociation than in any other .
We should thus have the maximum amount of chemical action and the feeblest union both .
with one and the same proportion of alcohol and water .
The rate of expansion .
of the various mixtures seems also opposed to the supposition that dissociation is the cause of the high specific heat observed .
It is to be supposed that the greater the amount of dissociation the more nearly would the specific gravity observed correspond to its calculated value .
In other words , the rate of expansion of all the mixtures should be above its mean value , and this excess should stand in some relation to the observed elevation of the specific heat .
following Table will show that this is by no means the case .
It gives for spirits of 30 , 20 , and 10 per cent. strength by weight , the specific gravities as found and as calculated for the temperatures , and C. The specific gravities for the temperatures , 10 , 20 , and 30 are taken from the Tables of : CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES AND SOLUIIONS . .
The specific vity of the 30 per cent. spirit thus really OftcheS 1 more to its calculated value ; in the case of the 20 per cent. spirit this still perceptible , is , however , considerably less , both absolutely and ) ally .
Finally , with the 10 per cent. , the phenomenon is actually ) observed specific gravity radually 1 .
from the specific gravity as calculated ; and so far from any dissociation indicated , the opposite rather seems to takc place .
It may be well here to recall to mind that 5 grms. of a 30 per cent. spirit , when heated from to C. , lequire about 25 units of heat in excess of would bc ncccssftl.y to raise the constituents separately through the same excess amounts to about 21 units with the 20 per cent. spirit , and to about 13 units in the of the 10 per cent. spirit .
No apparent connexion , therefore , seems to exist between the rn of expansion and the high specific heat .
Alcohol and Water .
The great volatility of methylic alcohol presents considerable difficulties to the accurate estimation of the various properties of these mixtures , mole culally as the specific heat and the heat evolved on mixing .
In to this , the evation of the specific heat of the various mixtures above the calculated value is but small , and thercforo even slight errors will have a much greater influence on any ations based on difference between the values as found and as calculated . .
, , , Difference Endeavours to estimate the heat evolved at higher tempelatures led to still less satisfactory results .
At the end of every experiment the mixture was found to be weaker in spirit than it should have been , from the amounts of vater and alcohol taken ; and this loss of alcohol of coulse diminished the amount of heat evolved .
This loss took place the xing was effccted in a closed vessel .
Nevertheless these experiments show distinctly that less heat is evolved at the higher temperature .
Calculating , as in the previous mixture , the temperature at which no heat would be on , the following tempelaturcs obtained : , l75o , , and for strengths of 10 , 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , 60 , 70 , 80 , and 90 per cent. respectively ; the mean of these tempelatures is 15 C. These temperatures differ apparently somewhat widely , and yet the maximum deviation from the mean found corresponds to a small error only in the estimation of the specific heat of the corresponding mixture .
Thus the maximum differences are found at an alcoholic strength of 20 and 80 per cent. The specific heat of these two mixtures as found is and whereas the pecific heat .
to the above mean temperature of bc and ; the difference in either case is less than of the total value .
glance at Table II .
will show that in this , as in the previous mixture , thelate of expansion seems incompatible with the supposition that the high specific heat observed is caused by dissociation .
weak and for strong mixtures the rate of expansion is below the mean , for mixtures of middle strength above the mean ; in the first two cases the amount of contraction is reater , in the last case it is less , the higher the temperature .
The specific heat does not , ever , show auy corl.esponding change .
PIFYSICAL CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES ADD SOLUTIONS .
Water and Prussic Aci C one part .
one part .
Specific heat of prussic acid 2940 , , mixture found .
8317 calculated 6470 In the formation of 5 grms. of this mixture are absorbed , at a temperature of C. , units .
Difference To heat 5 grms. of the mixture from to requires units .
, , of water requires units .
, , prussic acid requires Difference Ethylic Alcohol and Bisulphide of Carbon* .
parts .
Specific heat of bisulphide .
2381 alcohol . . .
5790 , , mixture found 3903 calculated 3666 In the formation of 5 grms. of this mixture are absorbed , at a temperature of C. , units . .
, Difference To heat 5 grms. of the mixture from to requires units .
, , the constituents separately from to , , Difference , , Solutions of Potassium Chloride .
K Cl one molecule , or per cent. thirty molecules , or Specific heat of solution , according to THOXSON , 850 .
*Bussr and BUIGXET , Ann. Chem. Phys. [ 4 ] , 5 .
K Cl one molecule , or per cent. fifty molecules , or Specific heat of solution , according to THOMSON , 904 .
In the formation of 5 grms. of this solution are absorbed , at a temperature of units of heat .
Difference To heat 5 grms. of the solution from to requires units .
To heat the water alone , , , , , , Solution of Sodium Chloride .
Na Cl one part .
parts .
Specific heat of the solution , as calculated from THOMSON'S Tables , 8747 .
In the formation of 5 grms. of this mixture are absorbed , at a temperature of C. , units of heat . .
, .
, To heat 5 grms. of this solution from to requires units .
To heat the water alone , , , , , , units .
Solutions of Potassium Nitrate .
K one molecule , or per cent. fifty-six molecules , or per cent. Specific heat of this solution , calculated from THOMSON'S Tables , 909 .
In the formation of 5 tgrms .
of this solution are absorbed , at a temperature of units .
Difference PIIYSICAL CIIARACTERS OF NIIXTURES AND SOLUTIONS .
To heat 5 grms. of this solution from to requires units .
To heat the water alone , , , , , , K one molecule .
or per cent. molecules , or Specific heat of this solution , calculated from THOMSON'S Tables , 943 .
In the formation of 5 grms. of this solution are absorbed , at a temperature of units .
Difference To heat 5 .
of the solution from to lequires units .
To heat the water alone , , , , , , The data for the heat absorbed in this and in the preceding solution are taken from GRAHAlf , OTTO'S ' Chemie , ' vol. pal , by H. KOPP .
Solution of Potassium drate .
K one molecule , or per cent. thirty molecules , or Specific heat of solution , according to THOMSON , 876 .
In the formation of 5 grms. of solution are evolved , at a temperature of units .
Difference To laise 5 grms. of solution from to requires units .
To raise the water alone , , , , , , Every one of the preceding mixtures conforms with proposition 2 , and most of them also fairly enough with proposition 1 , the only signal exception the mixture of ethylic alcohol and bisulphide of carbon .
A very close correspondence can only be expected where all the necessary data have been estimated with accuracy and at the required intervals of temperature .
Some amount of error is , however , unavoidable ; and that mixture which is least affected by such small errors , will serve best to bring out the real connexion existing between the various properties .
Now none of the eight sets of mixtures considered equaIs the mixtures of ethylic alcohol and water in this respect , and we find accordingly that these most nearly conform to the .
These mixtures have therefore been chosen , not only as the best illustrations of the law , but also as a guide in tracing similar relations between the corresponding properties of other mixtures and solutions , relations which , being in those cases more liable to be masked by small experimental errors , might otherwise have been overlooked .
This calculation will serve not only as a check on the accuracy of the various experimental data involved , but may in certain cases enable us to calculate the specific heat of an element in a condition which this could not be directly determined .
If , for example , we can estimate the heat evolved or absorbed at two different temperatures during the combination of two elements , of which one is , say , in the nascent state , the specific heat of the element in that condition could be calculated .
Lastly , these considerations show how important it is to give , in all cases in which the heat of combination \amp ; c. is estimated , not only the quantities of substance employed , but also the exact temperature at which the experiment was performed .
Without this the results are well nigh valueless .
Let be the weight of a mixture , and the weights of its two constituents , and the units of heat evolved at the temperatures and , of which is the lower , and and the specific heat of the mixture and of its two constituents and respectively ; then , if and are known , we have If heat is absorbed in the formation of the mixtures , and may be taken as representing the units of heat absorbed at and , and the above equation becomes correct if the signs for and are reversed .
The specific heats of the four solids above considered , calculated with the help of this formula , are as follows:\mdash ; Potassium chloride from the weaker solution 147 stronger , , .
135 \ldquo ; as estimated by KOPP directly .
173 Sodium chloride calculated 229 as estimated by KOPP .
214 Potassium nitrate from the weaker solution .
227 stronger , , 192 as estimated by KOPP 2388 Potassium hydrate calculated 274 Potassium bydrate has not yet been directly estimated PHYSICP L CHARACTERS OF MIXTURES AND SOLUTIONS .
In the Plate the abscissae represent the percentage by weight of alcohol .
PLATE XLVII .
Upper Half .
Curve 1 .
The ordinates give the specific heats , water taken as 100 .
Curve 2 .
The ordinates give the boiling-points in degrees Centigrade , at millims. pressure .
Curve 3 .
The ordinates give the capillarity in millims. , water Curve 4 .
The ordinates give the expansion for 10,000 volumes .
Curve 5 .
The ordinates give the compressibility in millionths .
Under Half .
The ordinates in Curves 1 to 5 have the same significance as in the upper half , except that they give the deviation of the numbers found from the theoretical mean instead of the numbers themselves .
Curve 6 gives the heat produced by mixing , the ordinates representing units of heat .
Curve 7 .
The ordinates give the deviation of the specific gravity from the mean , for 1000 volumes of mixture , at a tempel.ature of Centigrade .
The zero line represents the mean value of all the properties .
The points directly ascertained by experiment are marked either by a circle or a cross .

