498 On the Existence of Cell Communications between Blastomeres .
By Cresswell Shearer , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received January 30 , \#151 ; Read February 15 , 1906 .
) [ Plate 18 .
] Several years ago in following the development of the larval excretory organs of the Serpulid Eupomatus , I had in the course of the investigation to section a large number of the gastrula stages of the egg of this worm .
From time to time , in some of these sections I noticed delicate strands of protoplasm traversing the segmentation cavity or portions of this space , connecting one cell with another , or one blastomere with its neighbour .
These connections were similar in many respects to the " filose " strands described by Andrews ( 1 ) , which he has observed joining the blastomeres , in a number of Metazoan eggs during life .
I also noticed they were sometimes present in advanced stages where their filose character was somewhat different from their appearance at an earlier date .
I paid them little attention at first , considering them the result of the action of the fixing reagent in coagulating the albuminous fluid of the blastocoel , or what was still more probable , to the imperfect penetration of the reagent , and the consequent necrosis and disintegration of the protoplasm in the interior of the egg .
Meeting with them again and again in the course of the work , and under conditions that seemed to show they were not due to either of these causes , I was led to make a few experiments to determine if possible their nature and significance .
Their presence , I found , was well marked , in eggs preserved with any of the good fixatives , especially those that act rapidly , such as the Osmic acid mixtures , and Corrosive-acetic .
The action of these is sufficiently different to preclude the strands being therefore of the nature of ordinary coagulation artifacts .
On the other hand , it was impossible to ascribe them to the breaking up of the protoplasm and imperfect fixation , as in many of the eggs in which they were present all the finer histological details were well preserved , and in some cases the various phases of mitosis plainly shown .
Their observation on the living egg I found difficult on account of their transparent nature during this state , and also on account of the difficulty of examining the interior of the segmentation cavity satisfactorily in the whole egg under the high power of the microscope .
By placing Existence of Cell Communications between Blastomeres .
499 a light cover glass supported at its four corners by means of wax feet , over a few eggs in a drop of sea water on a slide , it is possible to hold the eggs in any position , and study them if necessary for hours under an oil immersion lens .
By pressing down the cover glass , the eggs can be flattened slightly without causing any serious injury or displacement of the cells .
It is then possible to closely examine the interior of the blastocoel .
In preparations of this kind , delicate strands can be seen in some cases connecting the blastomeres , their appearance being much the same as in fixed material with the exception that they are less granular and finer in appearance .
Unfortunately this method of examination may be held to cause their formation .
The fixation of the sections from which the accompanying drawings ( Plate 18 ) were made was in all cases good , Flemming , Hermann 's fluid , or Corrosive-acetic being used.* The sections were cut in the ordinary way in paraffin ; very dilute paracarmine being used as a stain .
Fig. 1 , is taken from a section of an egg of three hours after fertilisation , and fixed with Flemming 's strong solution .
A fine strand of protoplasm is seen connecting one blastomere with another across the segmentation cavity .
The granules of the protoplasm of one cell , are traceable without break in continuity throughout the course of this strand , into that of the other .
By examining the consecutive sections through this egg , it can be readily determined that this strand does not represent a ridge on the wall of the cavity so cut as to appear as a strand in the section .
It is quite plainly in the middle of the cavity , running freely from one wall to the other .
In this and the subsequent sections the darkly staining egg membrane is seen surrounding the egg , and is remarkable in for its thickness , remaining about the egg till a relatively late stage in development .
Fig. 2 , is also taken from a Eupomatus egg , some four hours after fertilisation fixed in Flemming 's solution .
Here several strands are seen irregularly crossing the cavity , one strand being shown cut across in the section .
In the cavity a number of granules are seen .
Fig. 3 , is from an egg somewhat similar to that from which the last section is taken .
In one of the cells a conspicuous mitotic spindle is shown cut across .
The large cells ( marked en in the figure ) on the lower side of the section subsequently become the entomeres , while the dorsal cells with which they connect , become the " apical rosette " cells , which are plainly * It is worthy of note that Wilson ( 17 ) , in comparing the appearance of living with fixed protoplasm , comes to the conclusion that its treatment with suitable reagents " does not materially distort or pervert the normal structure , but gives on the whole a remarkably faithful picture of the structure existing in life,3 ' ( p. 5 ) .
Mr. C. Shearer .
On Existence of [ Jan. 30 , present at a slightly later stage .
In living material , strands such as these are seen to arise as the gradual separation of the cells takes place to form the segmentation cavity ; so in some cases they would seem not to be new formations , but the stretching of former connections .
For instance , the strand in fig. 1 , can be sometimes seen to form as the cells are separated by growth , by the drawing out of their former point of contact , their ends being in touch with one another at an earlier date .
Fig. 4 , is also taken from a section of a egg , but this time fixed with Hermann 's fluid .
In this case a distinct ridge is cut across , but no cell boundary can be distinguished .
The protoplasm granules are continuous without interruption from one cell to the other .
Fig. 5 , is a section of a partially-formed gastrula of Eupomatus .
Here one of the endoderm cells has joined two of the ectoderm cells .
But at the point of contact no cell wall can be distinguished .
The upper of the two ectoderm cells making the connection , probably belongs to the " apical rosette cells , " and the entomere with which it forms the connection is possibly the cell shown in fig. 3 ( marked en ) at a later stage .
This connection may have remained unbroken from the first .
Fig. 6 , is a gastrula of Eupomatus fixed with corrosive and acetic .
The ectoderm and endoderm are joined by strands which are continuous with cells in each layer .
These strands may represent mesenchyme cells , but at this stage they would seem to be joined alike to cells in both germ layers .
Fig. 7 , is a section similar to some of the first .
The strands in this case are decidedly filose in character .
Fig. 8 , is a section of a gastrula of Polygordius fixed with Corrosive-acetic .
A large entomere is seen continuous with a conspicuous cell of the ectoderm .
Numerous other examples could be given , but it is unnecessary to add to their number , as in all cases the strands are of quite the same nature .
There can hardly be any doubt that they are similar if not identical with the filose filaments described by Andrews ( 1 ) , as already mentioned , and which he expressly states sometimes " varied from fine filaments to broad bridges .
" He has observed them on the living eggs of a number of Echinoderms , Annelids , Molluscs , and Nemertines , and traces of their presence in preserved eggs of Amphioxus and Amphibia .
He says , " the most delicate filose displays were seen near the polar bodies during the first and second cleavages .
The egg put forth fine protoplasmic threads that branched and reached up towards the second polar body , and the filose phenomena in it led to the assumption that it was a flowing mass of protoplasm " ( p. 5 ) .
According to Andrews , who believes they " furnish a medium for co-ordinating the 1906 .
] Cell Communications between activities of the parts of the embryo , " they form as thread-like pseudopodia of the hyaloplasm similar to the way Radiolaria and Eoraminifera throw out this layer in the formation of their long and delicate processes .
In some cases and possibly in all cases except where they form as already mentioned as the drawing out of established connections , my own observations also lead me to believe they are essentially of the nature of pseudopodia .
In the living egg they are plainly seen to possess pseudopodium-like movements , varying in shape and size from time to time .
As in the pseudopodia of Gromiaoviformis , the classical object of study , the granules of one thread are plainly seen to pass into another where they touch or overlap , so the granules in the protoplasm of the blastomeres can be traced along these strands from one cell to the other .
Frequently the strands have a beaded appearance not unlike the appearance of the pseudopodia in Orbitolites after stimulation .
In the Annelid Podarke , the egg of which is about the same size as that of Eupomatus , and has a form of cleavage as far as I can determine very similar step for step , it is interesting to note that Treadwell ( 13 ) , in speaking of the 40-cell stage , says " strands of protoplasm can be plainly seen reaching across the cleavage cavity " and " protoplasmic connections do exist between blastomeres of relatively late cleavage stages " ( p. 410 ) .
His text-figures 3 and 4 , show two strands crossing the segmentation cavity from the apical rosette cells and joining two of the entomeres , here , as Treadwell suggests , possibly the contact between them from an early stage has never been broken .
During segmentation , the egg of Eupomatus seems to have alternate periods of rest and rapid division .
During the periods of rest the cell boundaries seem to fade out , and the nuclei become large and peculiarly opaque .
Cutting sections of eggs in one of these resting periods , no matter how well fixed , it is next to impossible to distinguish cell outlines , and in the early stages the egg looks not unlike a multinucleated mass of protoplasm .
I have noticed that the first signs of the assumption of the period of division are shown , by the reappearance of the cell outlines , when the cells seem drawn apart from one another to some extent .
It is at this time that the filaments are most obvious and numerous .
When the period of active division has fully set in they are seldom seen.* Frommann ( 2 ) years ago drew attention to fine lines running between the * These periods of rest and active division are used as applying to the appearance presented in preserved material .
I am not certain that they are to be distinguished during life .
As far as I have observed , growth is steady , although material preserved at intervals shows these alternating periods of what I have termed rest and division .
502 Mr. C. Shearer .
On Existence of [ Jan. 30 , blastomeres of Strongylocentrotus eggs , which had been preserved first in weak and then in strong alcohol .
These threads seem to be outside the cell membrane as far as one can judge from his figs. 14 and 16 .
They look not unlike coagulation artifacts , and it is doubtful if they are really protoplasmic in nature .
Hammer ( 4 ) has recently described bridges of protoplasm that connect blastomeres at the ends of their planes of contact .
These are most obvious in the two-cell stage , a delicate bridge joins the blastomeres at each end of the cleavage plane .
I have frequently observed these connections on the eggs of Pomatoceros where they are well marked .
But the best examples are furnished by the eggs of Phoronis .
In the two-cell stage they are plainly evident , and on the living egg one can readily trace with the high power of the microscope , protoplasmic granules continuously from one cell to the other through these bridges .
Klaatsch(6 ) has described somewhat similar connections , on the egg of though he represents bridges connecting the cells along the course of the cleavage planes as well .
In the gastrula of Amphioxus he shows all the cells connected by delicate lines .
They however look not unlike the result of shrinkage during preservation .
Both Hammer and Klaatsch discuss the possible influence of these cell communications in co-ordinating the activities of the individual cells .
The results of experimental embryology of the last decade amply show that such influence must exist , and that it is impossible to hold that in the growing organism the cell lives an isolated existence .
Wilson ( 16 ) in speaking of the results of his work on the mechanical separation of the blastomeres of Amphioxus , states , " There must be a structural continuity from cell to cell that is the medium of co-ordination , " and that it is this that " is broken by mechanical displacements of the blastomeres .
" Townsend ( 12 ) , has shown how in plants very delicate strands can transmit the influence of the nucleus from cell to cell .
In the plasmo-lysed root-hairs of Marchantia the protoplasm is broken up into balls , some of which only are nucleated , the nucleated portions alone are capable of utilising the starch they contain and of surrounding themselves with a new cell wall .
But some of the non-nucleated portions are sometimes connected with a nucleate portion by long delicate strands or threads , they then , as the result of this connection with the nucleus , elaborate cell walls ; if this strand is however broken they lose this power and soon die .
While it is well known that the nucleus plays the essential part in the formation of new products chemical or morphological of the cytoplasm , it is remarkable to find this power capable of being transmitted from one mass of protoplasm to another , or as in the case of the leaf-hairs of Cucurbita , from 1906 .
] Cell Communications between Blastomeres .
503 cell to cell by means of such delicate threads .
It is highly probable that the strands described here between blastomeres can play an important part in a similar manner .
In nearly all plant tissues , the cell walls are traversed by delicate strands or intercellular bridges of protoplasm .
The work of Gardiner ( 3 ) , Kienitz-Gerloff(5 ) and Meyer(7 ) , has conclusively proved among plants how wide-spread and universal is their distribution .
It is almost possible to speak therefore of plants as multinucleated masses of protoplasm or Syncytia .
Meyer ( 7 ) , as the result of his studies on Volvox , comes to the conclusion that " Plasmaverbin-dungen zwischen alien Zellen eines jeden Individuum dadurch vorkommen , dass das thierische und pflanzliche Individuum charakterisirt ist , dass es eine einheitliche Cytoplasmamasse besitzt , dabei eine einkernige Zelle , eine vielkernige Zelle oder ein System von Zellen sein kann , deren Cytoplasma ein zusammenhangendes Ganzes bildet , " p. 212 .
Among animals , undoubted cases of true syncytia occur not infrequently in the centrolecithal eggs of Arthropods .
Here the nucleus takes up a central position , dividing into two , four , eight , and sixteen or more cells , while the egg as a whole has remained unsegmented .
The nuclei make their way to the surface of the egg there taking up their respective positions ; at a later stage only after this has taken place , does the cytoplasm split up into as many cells as there are nuclei .
In Peripatus , according to Sedgwick ( 11 ) the cleavage takes place as in centrolecithal eggs , but the segmentation nucleus divides at the periphery instead of the centre of the egg .
The first division separates the opaque area into two portions that lie closely applied to one another .
A careful examination , however , shows " that the furrow has not completely separated the two segments from each other , but that they are connected by strands of protoplasm forming a loose network between them , the embryo at the gastrula stage , and in all the earlier stages of development , is a syncytium , " p. 24 .
Sedgwick holds that even in later stages , and also in Vertebrates , the entire body is one continuous syncytium .
" The primitive streak , the walls of the coelom , and the neural crest , and parts of the ectoderm , are growing points where nuclei , not cells are produced .
" He cites in particular the case of the third nerve in Selachians , which he claims along with other nerves is differentiated as a portion of a continuous reticulum .
Amongst adult epithelial and connective tissue cells connections or bridges were earl } described by the old school of histologists as Max Schultze ( 1864 ) , Bizzozero ( 1872 ) , Banvier , Flemming ( 1876 ) , Heitzmann ( 1883 ) and recently Schiiberg ( 9 ) has added a long contribution to the subject in which many of these early results are confirmed .
VOL. lxxvii.\#151 ; b. 2 o 504 Existence of Cell Communications between Blastomeres .
Against either Meyer 's or Sedgwick 's theory , cases can be cited of cells in the body , as the blood cells , the mesenchyme of many Invertebrates , which are quite free ; but perhaps the force of these and similar facts is removed when we consider that fixed and specialised tissue cells , such as the squamous epithelium of the cornea , are capable of assuming the character of leucocytes and wandering free as the response to injury .
Certainly in view of all the evidence that has been gradually accumulating , our conception of the cell theory needs remodelling on some such lines as Meyer has laid down .
This has clearly been pointed out by Sedgwick ( 10 ) and Whitman ( 14 ) .
In the words of Sachs ( 8 ) cells are " merely one of the numerous expressions of the formative forces which reside in all matter .
" LITERATURE .
1 .
Andrews , Ethan Allen .
" Filose Activity in Metazoan Eggs , " ' Zoological Bulletin , ' vol. 2 , pp. 1\#151 ; 13 , 1898 .
2 .
Frommann , C. " Beitrage sir Kenntnis der Lebensvorgange in tierischen Zellen , " 'Jen .
Zeitschr .
f. Naturw .
, ' vol. 23 , pi .
24 , pp. 389\#151 ; 412 , 1889 .
3 .
Gardiner , W. " Continuity of Protoplasm in Vegetable Cells , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 174 , 1883 .
4 .
Hammer , J. Aug. " Uber einen primaren Zusammenhang zwischen den Furchungszellen des Seeigeleies , " 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' vol. 47 , p. 14 , 1896 .
5 .
Kienitz-Gerloff , F. " Die Protoplasmaverbindungen zwischen benachbarten Gewebselementen in der PHanze , " ' Botanische Zeit .
, ' 1891 .
6 .
Klaatsch , H. " Die Intercellularstrukturen an der Keimblase des Amphioxus , " ' Sitzber .
k. preuss .
Akad .
Wiss .
, ' Berlin , 1898 .
7 .
Meyer , A. " Die Plasmaverbindungen , " 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' vols .
11 and 12 , 1896 .
8 .
Sachs , J. " Lectures on the Physiology of Plants .
" 9 .
Schliberg , A. " Untersuehungen liber Zellverbindungen , " ' Zeit .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 74 , pp. 155\#151 ; 325 , 1903 .
10 .
Sedgwick , Adam .
" On the Inadequacy of the Cell Theory , " 'Q .
J. M. S. , ' vol. 37 , p. 87 , 1894 .
11 .
---- " The Development of the Cape Species of Peripatus , Part II , " 'Q .
J. M. S. , ' vol. 27 , 1886 .
12 .
Townsend , C. O. " Der Einfluss des Zellkerns auf die Bildung der Zellhaut , " ' Jalirb .
Wiss .
Bot. , ' vol. 30 , 1897 .
13 .
Treadwell , A. " The Cytogeny of I'odarke Verrill , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, vol. 17 , pp. 399\#151 ; 476 , 1901 .
14 .
Whitman , C. O. ' The Inadequacy of the Cell Theory of Development , ' Woods Holl Biol. Lect. , 1893 .
15 .
Wilson , E. B. The Cell in Development and Inheritance , ' 2nd edit .
, New York , 1900 .
16 .
---- " Amphioxus and the Mosaic Theory of Development , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, vol. 8 , p. 595 , 1893 .
17 .
--- " On Protoplasmic Structure in the Eggs of Echinoderms and some otliei Animals , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, ' vol. 15 , Suppl. , p. 1 , 1899 .
Shearer .
Boy .
Soc. Broc .
J3 .
Vol. 77 .
Plate B Shearer del .
1-7 E UP O MAT US .
8 POLYGORDIUS .
Wesb , N\#187 ; wmaax Growth and Activity of the Mammary Glands .
All the figures have been drawn under an oil immersion , 2 mm. obj .
No. 0 .
Fios ^5 .1,2 , 3.\#151 ; Sections of Eupomatusegg .
Fixed in Flemming , x 600 .
4 .
\#151 ; Section of Eupomatusegg .
Fixed in Hermann solution , x 600 .
5 .
\#151 ; Section of gastrula of Eupomatus .
Fixed in Flemming , x 600 .
6 .
\#151 ; Section of a gastrula of Eupomatus .
Fixed in Corrosive and acetic .
7 .
\#151 ; Section of Eupomatus egg .
Fixed in Flemming , x 600 .
8 .
\#151 ; Section of a gastrula of Polygordius .
Fixed in Corrosive and acetic .
x 600 .
x 600 .
An Experimental Enquiry into the Factors which Determine the Growth and Activity of the Mammary By Miss J. E. Lane-Claypon , I).Sc .
( Tajik ! .
) , and Prof. E. H. Starling , F.B.S. ( Received February 12 , \#151 ; Read March 1 , 1906 .
) ( From the Physiology Laboratory , University College , London .
) [ Plate 19 .
] ?
The correlation between the mammary glands and the other organs concerned in generation presents perhaps the most striking example of the interdependence of the growth and activities of different organs of the body .
Although the manner in which this correlation is brought about has been the subject of speculation for many years , especially among medical men , it is only quite recently that any attempt has been made to apply experimental methods to its explanation .
In the case of the mammary glands we have organs which are present in both sexes , and at birth are in the same immature condition .
In both sexes there is frequently , during the few days after birth , an enlargement of the glands and an actual secretion of fluid , which is known as " witch 's milk .
" This state of activity disappears at the end of the first or second week , and till puberty the glands remain in the same undeveloped condition .
At this period in Man the first difference appears between the mammary glands of the two sexes , a rapid growth taking place in the female , and accompanying the commencement of the ovarian functions .
During adult life there is apparently at each cestral period a slight and * In this investigation the operations and inoculations were carried out by E. H. Starling , and the preparation of the extracts and the microscopic examination of the glands by J. Lane-Claypon .
2 o 2

