Some Observations Of the Effects of Touch and Friction .
The Operations and Effects of Touch and Friction having been lately much taken notice off , and being looked upon by some , as a great Medical Branch , for the curing of many diseases and infirmities ; it will perhaps not be unseasonable to mention ( here also ) some Observations relating thereunto ; which may give an occasion to others , to consider this subject more , than has been done heretofore , and to make further there Observations and Trials concerning the power of the same .
And First , the Illustrious Lord of Verulam , in his History of Life and Death , Histor .
6 .
~ .
3 .
observes , That Motion and Warmth ( of which two , Friction consists ) draws forth , into the parts , New Juice and Vigour .
And Canon .
XIII .
he affirms , That Frictions conduce much to Longevity .
See the same , Connex. ix .
~ .
26 .
&amp;c. Secondly , The Honourable Robert Boyle , in his Usefulness of Experimental Philosophy , sect 2 .
ch .
15 .
considering the Body of a Living man or any Animal , as an Engine , so composed , that there is a conspiring communication betwixt its parts , by virtue whereof a very slight impression of adventitious matter upon some one part , may be able to work , on some other distant part , or perhaps on the whole Engine , a change far exceeding , what the same adventitious matter could do upon a Body not so contrived : Representing , I say , an Animal in this manner , and thence inferring , how it may be altered for the better or worse by motions or impulses , confessedly Mechanical , observes , How some are recovered from swouning fits by pricking ; others grow faint and do vomit by the bare motion of a Coach ; others fall into a troublesome sickness by the agitation of a Ship , and by the Sea-air ( whence they recover by rest , and by going a shore .
) Again , how in our Stables a Horse well-curried is half-fed : How some can tell by the Milk of their Asses , whether that day they have been well curried or not : Arguing hence , that if in Milk the alteration is so considerable , it should be so I kewise in the Blood , or other Juyces , of which the Blood is elaborated , and consequently in divers of the principal parts of the Body .
Where also ( upon the authority of Piso)he refers the Reader to the Brasilian Empiricks , whose wild Frictions , as unskillfully as they order them , do strange things , both in preserving health , and curing diseases ; curing Cold and Chronical ones by Friction , as they do Acute ones , by Unction .
Thirdly , The learned Dr. John Beale , did not long since communicate by some Letters ; First , that he could make good proof of the curing or killing a very great and dangerous Wen ( that had been very troublesome for two or three years , ) by the application of a dead mans hand , whence the Patient felt such a cold stream pass to the Heart , that it did almost cause in him a fit of swouning Secondly , that , upon his brothers knowledge , a certain Cook in a Noble Family of England ( wherein that brother of his then lived ) having been reproached for the ugliness of his Warty hands , and returned for answer , that he had tried many remedies , but found none , was bid by his Lord , to rub his hand with that of a dead man ; and that this Lord dying soon after , the Cook made use both of his Lords advise and hand , and speedily found good effect .
( Which is also confirmed by what Mr. Boyle relates in his lately mentioned Book , of Dr. Harvey 's frequently successful trial , of curing some Tumors or Excrescencies , by holding on them such a Hand .
) Here is Friction or Touch , to mortify Wens , to drive away swellings and Excrescencies : And why not to repell or dissipate Spirits , that may have a dangerous influence upon the Brain , or other parts ; as well as to call forth the retired ones into the habit of the Body , for Invigoration ?
Thirdly , that a Gentleman , who came lately out of Ireland , lay at his House , and informed him of an aged Knight there , who having great pain in his feet , insomuch that he was unable to use them , suffered ; as he was going to bed , a loving Spaniel to lick his feet ; which was for the present very pleasing to him , so that he used it mornings and evenings , till he found the pain appeased , and the use of his feet restored .
This , saith the Relator , was a gentle touch , and transpiration ; for he found the Spirits transpire with a pleasing Kind of Titillation .
Fourthly , that he can assure of an honest Blacksmith , who by his healing hand converted his Bars of Iron into Plates of Silver ; and had this particular faculty , that he caused Vomitings by stroaking the Stomach ; gave the Stool by stroaking the Belly ; appeased the Gout , and other pains , by stroaking the parts affected .

