411 A Method of Measuring the Pressure Produced in the Detonation of High Explosives or by the Impact of Bullets .
By Bertram Hopkinson , F.R.S. ( Received October 17 , \#151 ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) If a rifle bullet be fired against the end of a cylindrical steel rod , or some gun-cotton be detonated in its neighbourhood , a wave of pressure is transmitted along the rod with the velocity of sound .
If the pressure in different sections of the rod be plotted at any instant of time , the abscissae being distances along the rod , then at a later time the same curve shifted through a distance proportional to the time will represent the then distribution of pressure .
Also the same curve represents the relation between f the pressure across any section of the rod and the time , the scale of time being approximately 2 inches for 10-5 seconds .
In particular it represents the relation between the total pressure applied to the end of the rod and the time , and the length of the curve represents the total duration of the blow .
If the rod be divided at a point a few inches from the far end , the opposed surfaces of the cut being in firm contact and carefully faced , the wave of pressure travels practically unchanged through the joint .
At the free end it is reflected as a wave of tension , and the pressure at any section is then to be obtained by adding the effects of the pressure wave and the tension wave .
At the joint the pressure continues to act until the head of the reflected tension wave arrives there .
If the tail of the pressure wave has then passed the joint the end-piece flies off , having trapped within it the whole of the momentum of the blow , and the rest of the rod is left completely at rest .
The length of end-piece which is just sufficient completely to stop the rod is half the length of the pressure wave , and the duration of the blow is twice the time taken by the pressure wave to travel the length of the end-piece .
Further , it is easy to see , as is proved in detail in the paper , that the momentum trapped in quite short end-pieces will be equal to the maximum pressure multiplied by twice the time taken by the wave in traversing the end-piece .
Thus by experimenting with different lengths of end-pieces and determining the momentum with which each flies off the rod as- the result of the blow it is possible to measure both the duration of the blow and the maximum pressure developed by it .
This is the basis of the experimental method described in the paper .
A steel rod is hung up as a ballistic pendulum , and the piece is held on to the end by magnetic attraction .
412 Mr. B. Hopkinson .
Pressure Produced the A bullet is fired at the other end , and the end-piece is caught in a ballistic pendulum and its momentum measured .
The momentum of the rod is also measured .
Most of the experiments described in the paper were made with lead bullets with the object of checking the accuracy of the method .
On the assumption that a lead bullet behaves on impact as a fluid the time taken completely to stop it , which is the duration of the blow , is equal to the time which it takes to travel its own length , and the maximum pressure is equal to the mass per unit of length in the section of greatest area multiplied by the square of the velocity .
The experiments showed good agreement between the observed and calculated values of the maximum pressure as is shown in the following table :\#151 ; Velocity of bullet .
1 Maximum pressure .
Calculated .
Observed .
ft./ sec. lb. , K 2000 43,500 42,600 1240 15,700 16,70i\gt ; 700 5,450 5,320 The observed duration of the blow is in the case of the highest velocity about 6 per cent , greater than the time taken by the bullet to travel its own length .
This discrepancy is to be accounted for partly by the fact that the bullet is really not absolutely fluid , but is also in part due to the non-fulfilment of some of the conditions postulated in the simple theory ol the method .
It seems probable that the principal source of error of the latter kind is that the pressure applied by the bullet is not uniformly distributed over the end .
Experiments with rods of different diameter show that the larger ones give larger estimates of the duration of the impact .
Having established by experiments on lead bullets that the method of experiment is capable of giving within a few per cent , both the maximum pressure and the duration of very violent blows , experiments were next made on the detonation of gun-cotton .
Cylinders of dry gun-cotton l^inch x lj inch and weighing about 1 oz. were detonated with fulminate at a distance of about f- inch from the end of the steel rod .
The results may be expressed by saying that the average value of the pressure during a period of 10~5 seconds in the neighbourhood of the maximum is about thirty tons per square inch .
The absolute maximum is of course considerably higher .
The pressure has practically disappeared in 1/ 50,000 second , Detonation of High Explosives .
4IS that is at least 80 per cent , of the impulse of the blow has been delivered !
within that time .
Experiments were also made with gun-cotton in contact with the rod , but owing to the permanent deformation of the steel , which would have the effect of deadening the blow , the results in this case cannot claim to be precise .
They lead , however , to the conclusion that the maximum pressure at the surface of contact is at least double what it is when an airspace | inch thick is interposed .
The results obtained for gun-cotton , though lacking in precision , throw some light on the nature of the fracture which is produced by the detonation !
of this explosive in contact with a mild steel plate .
They show that the* pressure of the gun-cotton may be regarded as an impulsive force in the-sense that only very small displacement of the steel occurs during its action .
Its effect is to give velocity to the parts of the plate with which it is in .
contact , the remainder being left at rest .
In a plate 1 inch thick the velocity given by a slab of gun-cotton of about the same thickness is roughly 200 feet per second .
The resulting strain depends upon the ratio of this velocity to the velocity of propagation of waves of stress into the material , , and , assuming perfect elasticity , shearing stresses of the order of 100 tons per square inch may be produced in a plate of this thickness .
In static tests on mild steel the metal flows when the shearing stress is of the order of 10 tons per square inch , and no materially greater stress can exist .
But if the rate of straining is sufficient , the viscosity of the flowing metal becomes important , and the shearing stress may approximate to the value corresponding to perfect elasticity .
The shearing stress is accompanied by tension , which under such circumstances may be sufficient to break down the-forces of cohesion .
Thus the steel is cracked in spite of its ductility , just as pitch may be cracked by the blow of a hammer .
From the measured duration of the pressure produced by gun-cotton it may be inferred that the velocity of shear required to crack mild steel is of the order of 1000 radians-per second .
The shattering of the plate by the gun-cotton probably occurs during the time that the pressure is acting\#151 ; that is within two or three hundred-thousandths of a second\#151 ; and before the plate has had time to be sensibly deformed .
The bending of the broken pieces , which is always found when mild steel is broken in this way , occurs subsequently , and is due to the relative velocities which remain in the different parts of each piece of the-plate after the plate has been broken and the pressure has ceased to act .

