1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
IV .
" Further Experiments on the Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
" By H. Marshall WARD , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Botany , Royal Indian Engineering College .
Received February 13 , 1893 .
On December 15 , 1892,1 read to the Society a short account of my experiments* proving that the light of a winter sun and that of the electric arc rapidly destroy the life of the spores of the anthrax bacillus , and showed that the bactericidal action is really direct , and not due to elevation of temperature or to any indirect poisoning or starving process incident on changes in the food materials .
I also mentioned that the evidence goes to prove that the effect is chiefly if not entirely due to the rays of higher refrangibility in the blue-violet of the spectrum .
The experiments have been continued with special reference to these latter points , and confirm the general conclusions in every detail .
Not only so , but the further results prove that the inhibitory and deadly effects of direct insolation are not confined to Bacillus anthracis , but also extend to other bacteria and even to the fungi ; and throw some light on several problems which have presented themselves during previous investigations .
E experiments with Screens of Coloured Glass .
I will first describe some experiments made during December to February with coloured screens of various kinds ; premising that the methods employed in preparing and exposing the plates , \amp ; c. , have been the same as those referred to in the previous communication .
Ten pieces of glass of various colours were selected , and each carefully examined as to thickness , transparency , and spectroscopic properties , and labelled so that all notes could be readily compared and contrasted .
Perhaps the best method of presenting the comparative peculiarities of these glasses is that employed in the following table ( p. 24 ) .
These pieces of glass were all of a size convenient for clamping over the outside of the stencil plate put on to the Petri 's dish , and in which the letter or figure is cut ( see p. 394 of previous paper ) .
* See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , No. 318 , p. 393 .
Table I. N amber and colour of glass .
Thick- ness .
Transparency in contact .
Transparency at 45 ' .
General spectroscopic characters .
Absorption bands .
Other peculiarities .
Remarks .
Blue 1 in .
Tt Excellent Excellent Much of all rays pass Marked bands in red and yellow Green very bright at less refractive half ; other half weak Superposed , these cut off f more re- Blue 7 ... . .
tV J ust read / Very good All but yellow- Broad band blocks More refrangible 1 frangible red , all print orange through off yellow-orange ; strong band in red green weakened ; blue - violet un- ' orange-yellow , and f more refrangible { A } altered j green Yiolet 2 . .
Invisible Fair only Some of all rays Band in yellow , Chiefly red , green , and Glass a long oblong , pass ?
and some blue violet transmitted \#163 ; -inch thick at one absorbled end , thinning off to .f^that the other .
Superposed with blue 1 , great loss of blue Ruby 3 ... .
Ruby 5 ... .
A A Excellent Invisible Excellent Scarcely see Cuts off all yellow and green to violet Cuts off all beyond *.\#171 ; Only red and yellow pass Only lets first J of 1 These two super-f posed , same as Olive 4 ... .
A Almost per- to read first J of red red through j ruby 5 alone Almost per- All to green pass , , , All violet and blue fact fact and a trace of ( or nearly so ) cut Orange 6. . .
A Excellent Excellent blue-green Only red , orange- out Cuts off all beyond yellow , and i first half of green Green 8. . . .
A Just see by Yery good green through All but red and in- Cuts out most of day digo-violet pass to some extent , but especially green orange-red and blue-violet , but a little less refrangible blue Ordinary 9 .
Ordinary 10 \amp ; tV Perfect Perfect Perfect Perfect All pass All pass ! . .
passes Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 16 , 1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
Table II ( p. 26 ) summarises the results of a series of experiments made with these glass screens , and shows at a glance all the essential points brought out in the experiments .
The first column merely gives the number of the experiment .
Column 2 is occupied with the tabular number of the particular glass screen employed , and is more fully elucidated by reference to the properties summarised in Table I. In column 3 we have the kind of plate employed .
In all cases the ripe spores were used , and it only remains to add that it makes no essential difference to the result whether agar , or gelatine , or a mixture of both , supplies the food material , except that agar is , of course , much the most convenient medium for incubation .
With regard to Experiments 11 and 12 in this table , the backs of the lids of the Petri 's dishes were slightly blackened in the smoke of a candle , in order to reduce the internal reflection , and I ought to state that numerous trials have shown that this does not seriously affect the results .
It has the disadvantage , however , of sometimes causing black spots on the plates , owing to the condensed water drops carrying off some of the soot ; of course this spoils the neatness of the cultures , and , I confess , I was surprised that nothing worse happened in spite of the slight acidity of these drops .
Columns 4 and 5 simply give the dates of making and exposing the plates .
Data are given in the column of remarks , from which the reader can judge of the hardships to which the plates are often exposed in the intervals\#151 ; during sunless days and at night\#151 ; and these will be referred to later on .
In column 6 we see how long each plate was exposed to the direct rays of the clear sun , and it is only necessary to add that four hours of really bright sunlight is usually quite sufficient ; indeed , as reference to the previous communication shows ( p. 394 ) , excellent results have been got with exposures of two hours to a December sun .
In column 7 are given the number of days that the plates were incubated at 20 ' C. after exposure .
In those cases where a positive result was obtained , the time when the letter was distinctly visible is recorded : where no letter , and therefore no bactericidal action , was observed , the plates were incubated until the growth of the anthrax was thick and decisive .
Then comes the column summarising the results , and showing at the same time what letter was employed .
It only remains to point out that no bactericidal action was detected behind the screens of experiments No. 2 ( olive ) , No. 4 ( ruby ) , No. 6 ( ruby ) , No. 7 ( olive ) , No. 9 ( orange ) , No. 11 ( ruby ) , and No. 12 ( green ) , and if we compare the data in Table I , this can be put as follows :\#151 ; There is no perceptible bactericidal action behind any of the glass Table II .
Number of Nature of Kind of Date Date Hours of experi- ments .
screen .
plate .
made .
exposed .
sunshine .
i Yiolet 2 Spores and Dec. 25 Dec. 25 and 9 gel .
agar 26 2 Olive 4 \gt ; \gt ; 99 99 99 3 Blue 1 \gt ; \gt ; 99 99 99 4 Ruby 3 99 99 99 99 5 Ordinary 10 Spores agar Dec. 31 Jan. 4 4 6 Ruby 3 99 99 99 99 7 Olive 4 99 99 99 99 8 f Blue 1* 1 { Bluel* l [ Blue 7 J Spores agar Dec. 31 J Jan. 10 1 \ and 11 / 6 9 Orange 6 99 99 5* 99 10 Ordinary 9 99 99 99 99 11 Ruby 5 Spores agar , smoked back Jan. 8 Jan 10 and 6 11 12 Green 8 99 99 ) ) 13 Yiolet 2 Spores agar , smoked agar 99 99 99 back 14 I Olive 4 99 99 99 99 ox oi CO crv Days incubated .
" Result .
Distinct , though blurred M , owing to softening of gelatine No trace of E Sharp H No trace of X Good C No letter E No letter X Remarks .
Exposed 4^ hours each day .
The failures wrere incubated as long as possible In dark at 12 ' C. , Dec. 31\#151 ; Jan. 4 , and germinated .
Jan. 4\#151 ; 6 , 0\#151 ; 2 ' C. in and out Good H No trace of H Dried up without germination at first ; good M eventually No trace of E No trace of X Sharp E No trace of C No. 8 , only two blues over one half .
All at 12 ' in laboratory from Dec. 31 \gt ; to Jan. 10 .
Then 2'\#151 ; 5 ' in and out .
Exposed 1 hour Jan. 10 , and 5 J hours on 11th !
Over 9th , at 10 ' C. Other [ intervals , 2*5\#151 ; 5 ' C. U Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments the [ Feb. 16 , 15 Half blue 1 ; half violet 2 Spores agar Jan. 27 Jan. 27 to Feb. 1 6 16 Green 8 it Ti n 6 17 Half ordinary 10 ; half orange 6 f } f ) 6 18 No screen 6 19 Ordinary 9 Spores agar Feb. 1 Feb. 1 to 4 inclusive n 20 Green 8 \#187 ; #\#187 ; TJ n 21 Half under superposed blue 1 and violet 2 ; half under green 8 Feb. 4 Feb. 4 to 6 inclusive 12 Area under blue quite clear .
that under violet has some colonies Traces of inhibition in centre of plate , but no letter Area under ordinary glass quite clear ; orange showed a faint trace of effect on 2nd day , but grown over on 3rd Good figure 4 ( in duplicate ) Excellent U No letter 2 hours ' sunshine on Jan. j 27 , and 4 hours ' on Feb. 1 .
Interval dull .
Temperature averaged 10\#151 ; 12 ' G. Exactly same conditions as * No. 15 An interesting result was obtained .
On the 27th , after 2 hours ' exposure , I inadvertently shifted the stencil plate , and fixed it anew ; two imprints were visible on the 3rd , a less sharp one corresponding to the 2 hours ' sun of Jan. 27 Germination centripetal , and U very faint at first , then sharp There was some evidence of slowing , however See Table I , re violet 2 0Q to ^1 X893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthraci Prof. Marshall Ward .
on the [ Feb. 16 , screens which transmit the red , orange , and yellow , hut cut off the blue and violet , rays .
The green screen ( No. 12 ) will have to be considered separately , and remains doubtful for the present .
On the other hand , distinct positive results were obtained in the following experiments :\#151 ; No. 1 ( violet ) , No. 3 ( blue ) , No. 5 ( ordinary ) , No. 8 ( blue ) , and No. 10 ( ordinary ) ; in other words\#151 ; The bactericidal action is marked behind the glass screens which transmit most or all of the blue and violet rays , ivhether they cut off the red , orange , and yellow rays or not .
These results may be expressed still more shortly by saying that the bactericidal action of the sun 's rays is due to those in the blue-violet half of the spectrum , a result perfectly in accordance with the evidence obtained by working with the spectrum thrown on the plates .
As is well known , however , it is possible to test such a generalisation by using screens of other kinds , and my experiments with these are interesting , as showing not only the accuracy of the above conclusions , but also that the light is effective after passing through considerable thicknesses of water .
Experiments with Screens of Chemical .* I employed saturated solutions of cupric oxide and of potassium bichromate : as is well known , the first cuts off all the red , orange , and yellow rays as far as the line b ( in the green ) , while the second cuts off the blue-violet from the line b onwards .
On January 10 , I made two plates of spores in agar , poured from the same tube , and alike in all respects : they remained at 8\#151 ; 10 ' C. till the 12th , when each was exposed .
One was covered with a stencil in which the letter T was cut , put behind a screen of ammoniated cupric oxide , the glass faces of which measured each inch , and the solution inch ; the other , with an exactly similar letter T , behind a screen of potassium bichromate , measuring inch in thickness of each glass , and inch of the solution .
They were exposed to the south , side by side , on the 12th and 13th , both dull days , with a gleam of sunshine for about one hour and two hours respectively .
A large concave mirror was also placed so as to throw more light on each , as equally as possible .
The temperature rose to 20 ' C. occasionally , but not beyond .
On the 14th they were exposed for three hours to dull diffuse daylight , there being no sunshine .
* Such screens have been used , e.g. , by Janowski ( " Zur Biologie der Typhus* bacillen , " ' Centralbl .
f. Bakt .
, ' vol. 8 , 1890 , p. 167 ) , but both his methods and results were different .
It is inferred that the red rays are active , but his screen ( a solution of fuchsin ) probably allowed transmission of violet rays , as I have convinced myself by spectroscopical examination .
1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
29 On January 16 , the plate behind the thick blue screen showed an extremely faint letter ; that behind the thinner and much more transparent orange screen , a letter , perhaps as distinct , but also extremely faint .
The inhibition here was very slight indeed , and the effects were obliterated after a few hours ' further incubation ; moreover , I found that with a stronger solution of the potassium bichromate than I could use in the very cold weather , the inhibiting rays are kept out altogether .
On January 14 an agar plate of anthrax spores , made the previous day and kept for twenty hours at 5\#151 ; 7 ' C. , was exposed for five hours to brilliant sunlight behind a thick screen of ammoniated cupric oxide ; the light had to traverse the two glass faces of the screen ( each _3_ inch ) , and that of the plate\#151 ; the bottom of a Petri 's dish\#151 ; as well as the solution , which was t7-q inch thick .
When held up to the sun , the latter was just plainly visible through the deep violet blue solution ; but the letter T of the stencil plate covering the culture was perfectly invisible .
On the same date , and exposed for the same time , side by side with the above culture , an exactly similar plate poured from the same tube , \amp ; c. , was put behind a screen of potassium , which was so transparent that the letter ( also a T ) of the stencil plate was distinctly visible through it .
Moreover , this screen was only inch thick , and each glass face inch .
On January 16 , i.e. , after little more than twenty-four hours ' incubation , the plate from behind the blue screen , showed a perfectly sharp letter T , whereas there was no trace as yet on that from behind the orange screen ; the latter plate , however , showed an extremely faint letter after two more days ' incubation , proving that the rays transmitted through the potassium bichromate solution were slightly inhibitory , though very much less so than those passing the ammoniated cupric oxide .
Further experiments , in which the two screens were interchanged , only confirmed these results , and carried them a step further , showing that the light passing through the blue solution , whether in the thick or the thin screen , always gives a sharp and clear letter , whereas that through the orange solution , exposed side by side , and for the same time , is always very faint , if it comes out at all , and it only appeared in my earlier experiments , when , owing to the low temperatures , the bichromate solution was too dilute .
Not only so , but the very dim blue light ( as estimated by the eye ) which traverses the thick screen of copper salt is far more bactericidal than the much brighter orange light transmitted through the thinner screen .
In other words , the more refrangible blue rays are the effective ones in destroying the life of the spores .
Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 16 , Experiments with Spores and Food Material on Separate Elates .
In order to test still further the accuracy of my previous conclusions , that the bactericidal action of the sunlight is direct , and not due to secondary effects , owing to changes in the food material , I carried out the following modifications of the experiments .
Agar tubes of anthrax , cultivated for several days at 25 ' 0 .
, were selected and examined for spores ; those were selected which exhibited a rich crop of thoroughly mature spores .
As is well known , it is possible to remove from such cultures the thick , yellowish , creamy layer of spore material without taking any appreciable quantity of the agar , and great care was employed to accomplish this successfully .
Having shaken up these spores in sterile distilled water in a test-tube , I poured a few drops of the infected liquid into each of several Petri 's dishes at 70 ' C. , in a hot-air oven at that temperature , and replaced the dishes to allow the water to evaporate into the hot air during the cooling down of the whole .
After two or three hours the water had evaporated completely ; or , if not , the oven was heated up again to 70 ' , and the drying completed , leaving a thin film of dry spores sticking to the bottom of the glass dish .
All bacilli and immature spores were of course killed by the high temperature , and only the thoroughly ripe and resistant spores left alive .
These plates were then wrapped up with suitable stencil plates , \amp ; c. , exactly as in my previous experiments , and exposed to sunlight , as before described .
For each plate of spores alone thus prepared , I also made a corresponding plate of agar alone , and exposed these side by side with the plates of spores .
Obviously , if the bactericidal action was , it ought to be manifested on the cultures of spores alone , if those spores not killed by the light could be made to develop in a thin layer of fresh agar poured on the plates after exposure ; whereas , if indirect , and due to changes in the agar , the effect ought to be visible by spreading a thin layer of fresh spores over the agar which had been insolated .
If both effects occur , then both sets of plates should show the positive results .
Of course this was a case where negative results with both plates could not be used for any useful conclusions ; for it is quite conceivable that the destructive light-action might not occur in dry spores , or that some volatile body* might be formed in the agar , which was rapidly dissipated in the water used for the sowing of fresh spores after insolation ; or again , the agglutinated layers of dry spores might shelter one another from the sun 's rays , and so inter* E.g. , it is not inconceivable that hydrogen peroxide might be formed from the moisture in the agar .
1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
31 fere with the results obtainable when the spores are distributed through a matrix of agar .
Finally , it was possible that the aerobian dry spores would not germinate with a layer of agar 'poured over , although I employed the thinnest coverings possible .
On the other hand , positive results with the dried spores would be conclusive as to the main point at issue ; the actual results seem to me to set the matter at rest , for they prove that the action of the solar rays is direct on the ri/ pe spores , and that the food material of the culture media is not appreciably concerned at all ( see Table III ) .
Passing over a number of experiments where gelatine was employed , and which were rejected because this medium is too soft and runs too easily to yield good prints , I select the following:\#151 ; On January 20 two plates of plain agar were made as thin as possible ; one ( Table III , A ) had a stencil C , the other ( Table III , B ) an H , for its letter .
On January 22 two plates were also made as follows:\#151 ; Two Petri 's dishes were heated to 130 ' C. in the hot-air oven : when the temperature of the oven had fallen to 90 ' C. , each plate received a few drops of sterile distilled water strongly infected with anthrax spores , and the fluid was distributed as evenly as possible over the base of the hot dishes .
The whole was then left to cool , when each dish had a thin film of the dry spores sticking to it .
One ( Table III , C ) was covered with a stencil letter H , the other ( Table III , D ) with a small B. All four plates were exposed daily till January 27 , but the weather was so dull that they received practically no sun on the 20th to the 26th inclusive ; the 27th was very bright , however , and each plate had at least five hours ' good insolation that day .
At sundown I distributed spores in water on the two pure gelatine plates , and a thin layer of gelatine over the two plates of pure spores .
On the 29th the letter H was clearly visible on the one plate of the dried spores ( Table III , C ) , and the B faintly marked and blurred on the other ( Table III , D ) , proving that spores had been killed over the area\#151 ; H and B\#151 ; exposed to light , but not elsewhere ; whereas the two plates made with agar only were uniformly covered with the anthrax growth , showing that the spores had germinated equally all over , and therefore that the agar exposed to the sun ( on the areas C and H ) was not rendered incapable of supporting their growth .
On January 27 I made two thin plates of agar only , without spores , and two plates of spores only , dried at 70 ' C. , as described above .
Two of these plates ( Table III , E and G ) were exposed forthwith at 1 p.m. , and received over two hours ' direct sunlight .
Each was then\#151 ; about 3.30 p.m.\#151 ; put in the incubator , after receiving a charge of gelatine ( on the spores ) and of spores in water ( on the agar ) respectively .
Table III .
Number of plate .
Kind of plate .
Date made .
kDales exposed .
Hours of sunlight .
Days incubated .
A Agar only Jan. 20 Jan. 20 to 27 inclusive 5 2 B 99 99 99 5 2 C Spores only dried at 90'\#151 ; 60 ' C. Jan. 22 Jan. 22 to 27 inclusive 5 2 D 99 99 5 2 E Agar only Jan. 27 Jan. 27 , 1 p.m. 2 3 F 99 99 Jan. 27 to Feb. 1 6 4 a Spores only dried at 70'C .
99 Jan. 27 , 1 P.M. 2 2 H tt 99 Jan. 28 to Feb. 1 4 2 i Agar only Jan. 29 Jan. 31 and Feb. 1 4 3 j 99 Jan. 31 to Feb. 4 inclusive 9 . .
K 99 99 Jan. 31 to Feb. 3 4 4 L Spores only dried at 70'\#151 ; 60 ' C. 99 Jan. 31 to Feb. 4 inclusive 9 . .
M 99 99 Jan. 31 to Feb. 3 4 2 N 99 99 Jan. 31 to Feb. 1 inclusive 4 2 0 Spores only dried at 70'C .
Jan. 31 Feb. 1 , 1 p.m. , to Feb. 10 2 P 99 99 Feb. 1 , at 1 p.m. , to 10 2 Results .
Negative Letter H distinct Y ery faint 1 etter B Negative Sharp and distinct letter C Negative No trace letter Faint , but distinct H Perfectly sharp and clear \#166 ; + .
Letter Z coming up very slowly Excellent letter E Remarks .
The spores were germinating all over , and no results were obtained on keeping longer Glelatine was used to pour over \gt ; * the exposed spores , but it ruus too much for good prints It had 2 hours ' good sun on Jan. 27 and 4 hours ' Feb. 1 ; intervening days dull Used gelatine , and it ran badly on the 29th Agar was used The light was reflected from mirror below It had 4 hours ' good sun direct on Feb. 1 , and 5 reflected from a mirror below on the 4th Kept longer , but the germination proceeded quite evenly all over Exposed exactly as No. J , of which it is the reciprocal This is reciprocal to No. K , and treated exactly in same way Treated exactly as No. I , of which it is reciprocal The internal reflection had caused wide-spread inhibition around Similar inhibition observed around 05 o 5- p S. I1 s- s [ Feb. 16 , 1893.1 Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
On the 29th the spores had germinated all over on both plates , and the results were negative .
This was probably in part due to the exposure being too short .
Nothing was gained by keeping the agar plate another day .
Of the other two plates , the agar preparation ( Table III , F ) was exposed again daily till February 1 inclusive : this latter date was the first sunny day ensuing , the intervening ones being dull or wet .
The other spore plate ( Table III , H ) was not put out till January 28 , as it was not quite dry on the 27th ; it received the same exposure otherwise .
On February 1 there were at least four hours ' good bright sunshine more probably , only I allowed for interruptions by clouds .
Other details may be seen by referring to Table III , E to H. On February 3 no trace of a letter could be detected on the agar plate ( Table III , F ) , and the spores sown thereon were germinating evenly all over ; whereas a perfectly sharp and distinct C was visible on the spore plate ( Table III , H ) , although it had only been in-solated for four hours instead of six .
It is not necessary to detail all the confirmatory experiments , and I will conclude with the following:\#151 ; On January 29 I made three plates of agar alone and three of spores ( Table III , I to N ) , drying off the latter at 70 ' to 60 ' C. All were left till January 31 , because the 30th was a very dull day .
They were all put out on the 31st , but did not receive more than 15\#151 ; 30 minutes of interrupted sunshine at midday .
February 1 was a bright day , and each plate had at least four hours ' direct sun .
One of each of the plates ( Table III , I and N ) was then incubated , after receiving its reciprocal charge\#151 ; agar on the spores , spores on the agar .
The others were left for further exposure .
On February 3 the agar plate showed no trace of its letter ( a small B ) , whereas the spore plate showed a beautifully sharp + , the shape of the area exposed , and over which the ripe spores were killed .
February 2 was a dull day , and the 3rd rainy , so that the remaining plates got no sun until February 4 , which was a beautifully bright day , giving me at least five hours ' clear sunshine .
Two more plates , however ( i.e. , one of each kind , Table III , K and M ) , were put into the incubator at 8.30 A.M. on the 4th , and had therefore only received the four hours ' real sunshine credited to the preceding plates , though of course they had been exposed to two more days ' diffused daylight .
See Table III .
I have recently modified this procedure , however , to try to obviate the following difficulty .
I found that it is very difficult to pour the agar , Ac .
, over the film of insolated spores without sweeping some of the non-insolated ones over the area left uncovered , and vice versa ; and , again , it is not VOL. LIII .
D 34 Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 16 , easy to wash a perfectly even layer of spores over the insolated agar or gelatine .
Further , a critic might object that sowing spores on the upper surface only of the insolated agar might yield negative results , because the light-action does not extend through the entire thickness of the plate , or because some volatile body is formed which is washed off with the sowing .
My new procedure is as follows :\#151 ; I make , for instance , two plates of dried spores only , and two of agar only , all as before .
I then expose one plate of each kind , and keep the others in the dark .
After exposure I remove the stiff and moist film of non-exposed agar from its own plate , and superpose it on the exposed of dried spores in situ .
Reciprocally , X remove the film of exposed agar , and superpose it on the non-exposed film of dried spores .
This prevents any wash or displacement , and ensures at the same time that the agar shall present in contact with the spores that face which was next the source of light .
So far I have been unable to observe any appreciable effect on the agar , though the dried spores exposed for an equal period are killed in abundance .
Whether exposure to more intense sunlight will make it necessary to modify this must await experiment .
Preliminary Results with the Spores of Fungi .
Results substantially the same as the above are obtainable with other Schizomycetes , but it was interesting to see whether anything of the kind occurs with the spores of true Fungi .
The time of year has , for many reasons , been unfavourable for very numerous experiments , but the results so far are extremely encouraging , and should , I think , give a stimulus to close enquiry into the whole subject .
I have so far employed the following species :\#151 ; taceum , Aspergillus glaucus , Potrytis cinerea , Ghalara Oidium lactis , Nectria cinnabarina , Mucor Saccharomyces pyriformis .
and a " Stysanus " conidial form met with some months ago as a saprophyte on Pandanus .
On making agar and gelatine plates of these as before , I have obtained positive results with Oidium ( 5 cases ) , Ghalara ( 1 case ) , Saccharomyces ( 4 cases ) , Stysanus ( 2 cases ) , and negative results with Aspergillus ( 5 cases ) , Penicillium ( 2 cases ) , Mucor ( 2 cases ) , Nectria ( 4 cases ) , and Botrytis ( 2 cases ) .
It seems worth noting that , in all the forms which have given me a positive result right off , the spores , as seen in masses , are either hyaline and colourless , or , in the case of the Stysanus , with a faint tinge of buff ; whereas those which gave negative results are either of some very pronounced colour , as Aspergillus , , and Nectria , or ( Mucor and Botrytis ' ) of a dull , yellow-brown hue .
1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
Theoretical .
It remains to be seen whether any explanation can be given that meets all the facts .
The following suggestions seem fairly deducible so far .
The spore is , in its fully ripe condition , a remarkably passive body , and contains a smaller or larger store of reserve food materials , generally of an oily or fatty nature .
It is commonly conceded that the ripe spores of bacteria contain a highly refringent substance like oil , and we know from the almost universal occurrence of fat-like oils in the spores of Fungi and other plants , including pollen grains , that such bodies constitute a very common form of reserve material .
Not only so , but the resistance of spores to ordinary processes of staining and of sterilisation is intelligible if they contain fatty substances* This , of course , does not exclude the importance of the membrane and the other contents of a spore in regard to its power of resistance. .
It appears at least possible that the bactericidal action of the light is due to its destructive influence , in presence of oxygen , on the fatty matters or other oxidisable substances forming the reserve materials of the spore .
Duclaux* has at any rate shown that vegetable oils , such as olive and palm oils , are rapidly oxidised if exposed to light , and , although we ought to be very careful in deducing any explanation of physiological phenomena directly from chemical experiments , we have here the significant fact that it is the lays known to be so commonly concerned in promoting chemical changes which are concerned in destroying the spores .
The spores are , in their passive resting state , to a certain extent comparable to a flask of oil exposed to oxidation in the sunlight .
Moreover , the bacilli , which contain little or no fat , and the protoplasm of which is far more accessible to the light , are found to resist the bactericidal action of the light to a much greater extent than the spores .
Of course , it may turn out that the action of the light is more profound than the simple explanation offered assumes , and that the physiological properties of the protoplasm are deeply concerned , but I cannot help thinking that if this were the case we ought to obtain more evidence of the action with the actively growing bacilli than seems to be forthcoming from the results of the experiments .
In any case , it must be allowed that the solar action is direct on something which is readily oxidisable in the spore : if the action were on the protoplasm one would expect to find the vegetative bacilli succumb more easily than the spores .
* Duclaux , * Ann. Inst. Pasteur , * vol. 1 , 1887 , p. 353 .
Duclaux says the oxidation is the more rapid the more finely divided the oil is .
See also Ballantyne , 4 Journ. Soc. Chem. Ind. , * 1891 , p. 29 , and Hartley , * Journ. Soc. Arts , * 1893 , p. 286 .
D 2 Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 16 , The assumption that the action is direct on some oxidisable body , like a fat , in the spore would help us to explain a good many facts , and among others the death of the protoplasm , if insolation is complete , because we know how intolerant of traces of acids Bacillus anthracis is , and inhibition and attenuation if the insolation is incomplete , and the protoplasm not so far injured that it cannot work up the remnants of reserve materials left .
That this point is one well worth further investigation is too obvious to dwell upon here , and I hope to succeed yet in discovering what is the body destroyed .
Literature .
There are , so far as I can discover , very few statements to hand as to the influence of light on spores other than bacteria , * and their germination ; and , indeed , as shown by Elfving 's excellent summary of the literature in his ' Studien uber die Einwirkung des Lichtes auf die Pilze , ' as to the influence of light on Fungi in general .
It has been the custom to regard the effects of light on the Fungi as not essentially different from those on other plants ; in accordance with De Bary 's general statement to that end on pp. 352\#151 ; 353 of his 4 Comp. Morphol .
and Biol. , ' Engl .
Ed. , 1887 .
Zopf ( ' Die Pilze , ' 1890 , p. 199 ) believes that light , as a rule , exerts no influence whatever , either on the germination of the spores or on the development of the mycelium , though he himself quotes De Bary 's and Wettstein 's statements to the contrary , and I have myself observed similar cases .
De Bary ( ' Ann. des Sc. Nat. , ' vol. 20 , 1863 , p. 40 ) found that the zoospores of certain Peronosporeae are inhibited by light in their germination , e.g. , P. macrocarpa and , a fact I should correlate with their delicate walls and want of protective colour screen .
On the other hand , De Bary ( 'Ann .
des Sc. Nat. , ' IV Series , vol. 20 , 1863 , p. 54 ) showed experimentally that the pustules of TJromyces appendiculatus appear preferably on that side of the leaf which receives most light , and this is indicated by their occurrence on the upper faces of these organs , facts quite in accordance with the deep orange-red colour of this fungus .
In TJromyces and others of these orange Uredineae , the colouring matter is associated with fatty drops ( Bachmann , " Spectroskop .
Unters .
von Pilz-farbstoffen , " in ' Progr .
des Gymnas .
zu Plauen , ' Ostern , 1886 , pp. 9 , 21 ) , and shows two absorption bands , one on the boundary between the green and the blue near F , the other in the blue between F and G , and the whole of the violet beyond G is cut * The literature , so far as bacteria are concerned , will be found in * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 51 , 1892 , p. 237 , and vol. 52 , 1893 , p. 393 .
1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
out .
Other Uredinete exhibit the same phenomena , as Bachmann and Zopf ( ' Die Pilze , ' p. 145 ) showed .
In sliort , the whole series of red , orange , and yellow pigments of fungus spores and flowers are at least calculated to act as screens which cut off more or less of the blue end of the spectrum , and they agree remarkably throughout in this particular. .
" 'Hoffmann ( ' Pringsh .
Jahrb , / II , p. 321 ) observed that the spores of Uredo destruens germinated as well in light as in dark , whereas those of Agaricus campestris , in one case , germinated better in the dark than in the light\#151 ; both cultures side by side.* Light did not interfere with the germination of Fuheterosporium ( a red form on Rye ) , Trichothecium roseum , Penicil Uredo destruens , and U.segetum .
Here , again , we have the red-yellow pigments predominating , and , I suggest , acting as screens .
With regard to Penicillium , it must by no means be concluded that the peculiar bluish-green hue gives us any information as to the rays transmitted to the interior of the conidium : the spores of Aspergillus appear yellowish by transmitted light , though , like P , they are blue-gieen by reflected light , when seen in large masses .
Low ( 'Yerhandl .
d. Zool.-bot .
Gesellsch .
in Wien , ' 1867 ) also finds no effect of light on Penicillium and Musor stolonifer : so far as Penicillium is concerned , this confirms Hoffmann , and my own attempts with it and with Aspergillus glciucusare in accordance .
Wettstein ( ' Sitzungsb .
d. Wiener Akad .
, ' 1885 , B. 41 , p. 39 ) found that light inhibits the germination of the very delicate conidia of lihodomyces Kochii , a parasite in the human alimentary canal .
As regards my own older experiences with germinating spores , I have a vivid recollection of the great difficulties experienced in 1886 with the conidia of PhytopUhora infestans , and although the meaning of the facts observed was not then clear to me , reference to my paper on this fungus in the ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sc. , ' vol. 27 , N.S. , 1887 , p. 422 , proves that the idea of increased oxidation under the influence of intense light had already suggested itself to me .
During my investigations into the biology of the orange-yellow Uredine , Hemileiavastatrix , the fungus of the Coffee-leaf disease , on the other hand , the impression is equally clear that little or no difficulty occurred with germinations of any of these orange-coloured spores , even in the intense tropical light of Ceylon .
Many similar , but less vivid , impressions of the connexion between light and germination occur to me , but little can be said as to their value now .
L. Klein ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1885 , Ho. 1 , p. 6 ) found that , as Rindfleisch ( ' Virchow 's Arch. f. path .
Anat .
, ' B. 54 ) had already observed , the * At the same time , there is possibly a slight confusion here , for De Bary states ( p. 352 ) that the germination of A. campestris has never been certainly observed .
Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 1G , conidia of Botrytis cinerea will not develop in daylight .
If the conidial branches are not completed before sunrise , the whole process stops till the darkness comes on again , and this , no matter when the sowings are made .
Klein also proved that this inhibition is due to the blue-violet rays , and is in abeyance in proportion as they are removed .
Here , then , we have the light action effective in preventing the storage of the spore materials , just as it is in germination in preventing their return into the area of metabolic activity .
Sorokin found ( ' Botan. Jahresbericht , ' 1874 , p. 214 ) that if fresh horse-dung is placed under screens of white glass , bichromate of potassium , and ammoniated cupric oxide , in the light , for twenty-five days , and compared with one another and with specimens in the dark , the feeblest crops of fungi were obtained in the blue light .
Laurent ( ' Comptes Rend .
Soc. roy .
de Bot. de Belgique , ' T. 28 ( 2 ) , 1889 , p. 162 ) exposed spores of Ustilago carlo in glass flasks to direct sunlight , in July , and found eight hours ' insolation killed them ; whereas the controls were all right , and sixteen hours ' insolation behind a screen of quinine sulphate , cutting off the ultra-violet , did not prevent their germination .
The spores of Aspergillus niger , A. glaucus , Botrytis cinerea , and Cladosporium proved much more resistant .
The spores of Fenicillium were also found to succumb to insolation .
Elfving found ( ' Studien i'ber die Einw .
d. Lichtes auf die Pilze , ' 1890 , p. 105 ) that intense sunlight in summer inhibited the germination of Aspergillus , but even several days or weeks of insolation did not kill the fully ripe spores .
If they had begun to germinate , however , the first germinal stages were very sensitive to sunlight ; and they were equally sensitive when just developed , i.e. , just before ripening .
The whole tenor of Elfving 's work , which is more particularly concerned with the vegetative mycelia and the weight of substance developed , is to show that light inhibits the metabolic processes the younger the tissues are , and the more the absorbed food materials approximate to the raw state .
This is not contradictory of my idea that the light destroys such substances as oily reserve materials directly in presence of oxygen , and there is nothing surprising in the action being facilitated on the germination of the spore\#151 ; no doubt the most dangerous moment is that when the material begins to pass into the area of metabolic activity in the germinal hypha .
The consideration of the above and other facts led me to formulate to myself the following hypothesis :\#151 ; No plant exposes a reserve store of fatty food materials to the danger of prolonged or intense insolation without a protective colour screen , calculated to cut out at least the blue-violet rays , as these rays would 1893 .
] Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
39 otherwise destroy the reserve substance by promoting its rapid oxidation .
Colours of Fungi .
One of the most interesting cases for onr purpose is the colours of the spores of Fungi.* I find very little information as to the correlation between the habits of Fungi and the colour of their spores ; but a somewhat hurried examination of the matter has yielded the following information:\#151 ; Taking the higher Hymenomycetes first , since more attention has been paid to the colour of their spores , as is well known , the large genus of Agaricus is usually broken up into five groups , according to the prevailing colour of the basidio-spores .
I confine myself to the British species .
Of the white-spored Agarics ( Leu ) I find that Stevensont mentions about 400 , and of these the vast majority are found in woods , and many of those occurring in pastures seem to me to be probably well sheltered by the herbage .
Cook* notices that they are in contrast with the dark-spored groups in not growing on dung or in rank places .
As regards the next set , the Hyporhodii or pink-spored forms , it appears not without significance that , while some grow in open woods , about two-thirds are found in more exposed situations .
Mr. Plowright was under the impression that the spores of these Hyporhodii germinate easily ; if this is so the fact is significant .
The Dermini , with yellowish to clay-coloured spores , present mixed features ; it seems to me that not quite half grow in more or less woodland places , often very open , while a little more than half grow in more exposed situations .
It must be noted , however , that the colours of the spores in this group vary more as to shade than in any of the others .
The fourth group of Agarics are the Pratelli , with spores of very various shades of purple tinged with black or with fuscous hues , and passing into brown , violet , slaty , and even pink hues .
The majority by far grow in exposed places .
There is a curious remark in Stevenson , regarding these Pratelli : " It is to be observed that the spores vary in colour according to the colour of the ground on which they are deposited .
" This seems clearly to indicate that these spores respond to the kind of light they receive , and seems worth pursuing further .
Lastly , we have the black-spored , none of which are * Elfving ( loc. cit. , p. 53 ) suggests that the coloured pileus of some Hymeno-mycetes may act as colour-screens , and the matter wants investigation .
f ' Hymenomycetes Britannici , ' 1886 .
X 'Handbook of British Fungi , ' vol. 1 , p. 5 .
Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 16 , typically wood-fungi , and nearly all of which grow in open exposed situations , on dung , \amp ; c. If I sum up the foregoing remarks about the genus Agaricus , it amounts to this : There are nearly 800 British species described , and of these 400 or so are white-spored , and nearly all grow in the shade of woods , the remainder chiefly in the long grass of meadows , \amp ; c. , the remaining moiety , a little short of 400 more , have spores of various colours ( pink , yellow , brown , purplish , and black , \amp ; c. ) , and grow for the most part in places more exposed to the light .
Generally speaking , the same seems to hold good for the other genera of Agaricini .
Coprinus has black spores , and grows in exposed places on dung , and similarly with the rusty-spored Bolbitius .
Lactarius , Russula , and Gantharellus have white to yellowish spores , and grow in woods .
At the same time there are difficulties .
The genus Gortinarius is a large one , of about 130 species , with yellowish spores , and all , or nearly all , grow in woods ; whereas a white-spored genus , comprising a little over fifty species , has half of them growing in grassy places .
It may be that a closer examination of the habits and spores will help us to explain several points , and it is interesting to note the following remark anent JS .
( Fr. ) , a form growing on the downs : " The spores have a pale umber and Stevenson says the same.f Again , summing up , the other genera of Agaricini number about 400 species , of which somewhat more than half are white-spored , and all typically woodland forms , except about twenty-five species of Hygro-phorus : the other moiety have coloured spores , principally tawny , and it is not easy to generalise about them , except that most grow in the shade .
I have been able to get very little information about the colour of the spores in Polyporei , but in the genus Boletus there are about forty species , the spores of which vary in colour considerably .
Most of them are shade forms , but at least five occur in the open : their spores are ochre , yellow-brown , and green-brown .
I can only find one form with white , or rather sub-hyaline , spores\#151 ; it grows in pine woods .
As regards Polyporus , the colour of the spores is rarely known .
P. ccesius is said to have pale blue spores it grows on dead firs .
Several have white spores\#151 ; all wood species .
Passing over a number of forms which need investigating in this connexion , we may glance at the genus Glavaria .
Out of more than forty species , I find fifteen with white spores , and these seem pretty * Cooke , loc. cit. , vol. 1 , p. 198 .
f Loc .
cit. , vol. 2 , p. 78 .
J Stevenson , loc. cit. , vol. 2 , p. 198 , quoting W. G- .
S. as authority .
1893.J Action of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
41 equally divided between woods and pastures .
It seems likely that the bright colours ( often yellow ) of the hymenophores standing npright among the blades of grass are of importance in this genus , but the matter requires looking into .
Uredinese are all orange to orange-brown , and remarkably brilliant and well screened .
Moreover , we have information as to the optical properties of their colouring matters , \amp ; c. , as already stated.* It is surely a significant fact that these bright orange Fungi are especially leaf parasites , exposed to the full sunlight , direct or reflected , during their whole course of spore formation , \amp ; c. TJstilagineoe are all dark spored ; they look black in the mass , but the colour is oftener a warm brown , and seems admirably adapted to their habits .
The conidial forms are developed in shade on the ground .
Ascomycetes require more examination as regards the colours of the spores , but it is well known that many asco-spores are dark-coloured or tawny , and the Nectrias and P show how thoroughly well screened the developing asci are .
The reds of the Nectrias have been examined by Bachmann and Zopf ; these colours may well be correlated with the exposure of the perithecia and conidia in winter .
The dark colours of the Sphceiacece and their allies are also probably of use as screens , and the similar coatings to Sclerotia , which contain large stores of reserves , may also be mentioned .
There are certainly many more cases which seem to be explained by the hypothesis ; but I will now turn to a few difficulties .
I suppose the yellow stroma of sufficiently shields the asco-spores in the sunken perithecia , but it seems difficult to explain the purple stroma of the allied genus nor can I explain some other cases of purples and blues as yet .
Bachmann , whose work on the spectroscopic analysis of fungus pigments I have already referred to , investigated these colours from all parts of the plants concerned , and dealt with spores only , or almost only , in the case of Uredinece .
Consequently I cannot utilise his other results directly .
At the same time it is worthy of notice , that on looking over Bachmann 's forty-two absorption-spectra of colours of Fungi\#151 ; including reds , violets , and orange hues\#151 ; it is significant that the extreme blue-violet , from the line G onwards , is cut out entirely in all but two cases , in each of which the absorption begins on the violet side of G. The extreme red , near the line A , seems always to be absorbed also .
Then we find differences .
The red pigments of Russula , Cladonia , * Rath ay thought the colours of Uredinece attracted insects ( ' Denkschr .
d. K. Akad .
d. Wiss .
, Wien , ' 1882 , vol. 46 ) .
Prof. Marshall Ward .
Experiments on the [ Feb. 16 , Agaricus peziza , Gompkidius cut out most or all of the blue and green entirely , and in some cases , in fact\#151 ; sanguined\#151 ; only allow red and a little orange to pass at all .
Now comes a curious point with regard to the violet pigments of Cortinarius , Agaricas , and Lactarius .
According to Bachmann , they cut out all the red below the line B , and all the indigo-violet beyond the line G- , together with more or less of the blue-green .
Stranger still , the violet pigment of Lactarius deliciosus cuts out everything beyond the lice D except a little blue between F and Gr , and transmits most of the red-orange and yellow .
Bachmann himself points out that two colouring matters , a yellow and a violet , occur side by side , and he also refers to the transient nature of some of these violet colours , which tv/ rn yellow with age .
Since such cases may be common , we must not accept a violet pigment without close examination , for it may be due to a mixture , or to superposition , or to other causes , and is by no means necessarily a colour screen in the sense that the orange and red pigments of others are .
The orange-yellow pigments of the spores of several Uredinese show spectra very uniform in type .
The indigo-violet from Gr onwards all goes out , and strong absorption bands are formed in the blue between F and Gr , and again at the line F. Most of the red , orange , and green are transmitted .
Bachmann shows that the oily masses in these spores of Uredineae are true fats , and the orange colouring pigments are associated with them .
In connexion with , the easy germination of such spores , it is interesting to note that these orange-coloured fatty drops pass into the germinal hyphse .
As regards the colours in Phycomycetes , we know almost nothing of use in the present connexion .
The spores and sporophores are often coloured with yellow or orange pigment , e.g. , Pilobolus , diacece , but , although Zopf says ( \#163 ; Die Pilze , ' p. 148 ) these colours are also associated with fats , they still require spectroscopic investigation .
Pollen .
Another very interesting case is that of pollen , the microspores of the flowering plants .
It is obvious that the pollen grains are often exposed for many hours to intense insolation in the concave cup of the corollas of many flowers and on the bodies of bees and other sun-loving insects .
Now a pollen grain is just such a storehouse of fatty oils as , according to my view , ought to be protected from the destructive rays , and in the vast majority of cases the deep orange colours of these spores accord well with the purpose suspected .
Even in the very few references to the colours of pollen that I can find , however , there are cases which at first sight seemed to present great difficulties .
1893 .
] A ction of Light on Bacillus anthracis .
43 Fischer ( 'Beitr .
sir Yergl .
Morphol .
d. Pollenkorner , ' Breslau , 1890 ) says that most colours can be found in pollen , and that the pigment usually , but not always , occurs in the exine , i.e. , the outer coat of the spore , and not in the contents , a fact very well in accord-ance with the view that the colour acts as a screen , though Fischer regards the coloured oily body as a sticky medium to facilitate the adherence of the body to the insect .
Among the comparatively rare pollen which is not yellow or orange the following may be mentioned : Pollen is white in Actcea , Bichardia , and other Aroide*\#169 ; , and some species of Ir%s , as Professor 14 .
Foster informs mo .
In the last cases , however , Professor Foster adds that the white is a dead one .
Actcea s a shade plant , and in Aroidese the rule is for the pollen to be formed and remain in the tube of the spathe , whence these cases may not really be exceptions .
The red pollens of LiUum chalcedonium and some other Lilies , Fer-bascum , Glerodendron cermum , and G. Thomsoni ( Fischer ) , and some Geraniums , and the red-browns of other Lilies and of JEsculus , passing into deeper browns in some Poppies , are not inconsistent with their being screens against blue light .
The cases which promise serious trouble , however , are the blue pollens of certain Irises , Epilobiums , some Polemoniaccea , Scilla sibi-rica ; some Poppies ( e.g. , Papaver orientate and P. bracteaturn ) are almost pure blue , according to Fischer .
Certain species of Linum , Anemone , Althcea , Agapanthus , Gilia , Echium , and a few Garyophyllacece are also said to be of various shades of blue or violet , and they appear as witnesses against the above generalisation .
At the same time it must be borne in mind that blue pollen is rare , that we know little or nothing of the spectroscopic and other optical properties of these pigments , and that it may turn out that special peculiarities in the biology of the plant are correlated with this colour .
Fischer mentions ( loc. cit. , p. 10 ) some species of Geranium , the pollen of which appears steel-blue ; this colour is due to the presence of a very volatile blue oil , which rapidly disappears as the pollen is exposed , and leaves the latter dark yellow in colour .
If many such cases occur , blue pollen may turn out to be easily explained .
Other Instances .
It is obvious , however , that if the foregoing explanation of colour screens is true , it will have a much wider application than I have as yet given it .
The following are probably examples in point : Sporangia and spores of all kinds among the vascular Cryptogams are usually some tint of orange or sienna\#151 ; e.g. , Ferns , Lycopodium , Action of JAght on Bacillus anthraeis .
[ Feb. 16 , Selagmella , \amp ; o. The tufts of archegonia and antheridia in Mosses* are often orange to red .
Nor are Algae wanting in good examples .
I take it the oogonia and antheridia of the Characeae are cases in point ; and the yellow pigment accompanying the antherozooids and oospheres of Fucus as they ooze from the conceptacles at low tide probably serves as a colour screen . .
The red stigmas of Gorylus would also seem to be one of many similar cases in point ; but , unless the Gramme\#174 ; have their plumose stigmas rapidly withdrawn into the shadow of the pale\#174 ; , they would seem to be witnesses against me .
The matter will probably not end with such cases as I have cited , and I am strongly inclined to regard chlorophyll as serving the part of a colour screen in the sense indicated , as well as that of an instrument !
of assimilation .
This is by no means the same as Prings-heims 's screen theory of chlorophyll , but it may well be that the great absorption in tne blue and violet has a screen effect .
Some Practical Bearings of the Results .
The establishment of the fact of the bactericidal and fungicidal action of light , dating from Downs and Blunt to now , enables us to see much more clearly into the causes of several phenomena known to practical agriculturists , foresters , hygienists , \lt ; fcc .
It helps to explain , for example , why the soil of a forest should not be exposed to the sun , a dogma long taught in schools ; it will also affect our way of regarding bare fallows .
It has already been shown how important is its bearing on the purification of rivers , and the reasoning obviously applies to dwellings , towns , \amp ; c. I regard it as probably explaining many discrepancies in the cultures of Schizo-mycetes and Fungi in our laboratories , and as having a very important bearing indeed on the spreading of plant epidemics in dull weather in the summer , and no doubt this applies to other cases on which I can speak with no authority .
That sunshine has something to do with the rarity of bacterial diseases in plants now seems quite as probable as the currently accepted view that the acid nature of the latter accounts for the fact .
'If that part of the chlorophyll which absorbs the blue-violet is a screen to prevent the destruction of easily oxidisable bodies , as they are formed in the chloroplasts , we may reconcile several old experimental discrepancies\#151 ; e.g. , the behaviour of plants under bichromate and cupric oxide screens .
* The calyptra may be of service as a screen in another way .
t Elfving also ( loc. cit. , p. 54 ) hints that the chlorophyll may serve as a screen in so far as to prevent certain destructive metabolic actions in synthesis .

