35 1870 .
] Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach caused by Vibration .
Weekly Returns of Births and Deaths in each of the Districts of the City of Dublin .
Yol .
VI .
Nos. 23-48,50-52 ; Yol .
VII .
Nos. 1-12 , 14 , 15,17,19-22 .
8vo .
Dublin 1869-70 .
Quarterly Return of the Marriages , Births , and Deaths registered in the Divisions and Districts of Ireland , Nos. 21 , 22 , 24 .
8vo .
Dublin 1869 .
The Registrar General for Ireland .
The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 17 .
" On Approach caused by Vibration .
" By Frederick Guthrie , B.A. Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received August 26 , 1869* .
S 1 .
The chain of experiments which I have to describe arose from the endeavour to explain an observation that a delicately suspended piece of cardboard moves , from a considerable distance , towards a vibrating tuning-fork .
It will be preferable to detail the experiments , not in the order in which they occurred to me and were actually performed , but in the order in which I conceive them to form a logical sequence .
S 2 .
The experiment of Clement shows that when a continuously renewed current of air passes between two parallel disks from the common axis towards the circumference , the disks are urged together .
Consequently , in seeking to explain the fact observed in S 1 , it was necessary to examine the air surrounding the resonant fork in order to ascertain whether air-currents existed in its neighbourhood ; and further , to distinguish between such currents as might be found to move in closed curves forming whirlwinds in the immediate neighbourhood of the fork , and such as might radiate in unclosed paths from the fork through the air .
S3 .
In 1831 Mr. Faraday .j ' ' , in tracing the cause of the accumulation of light particles on the internodal points and lines of vibrating bodies , came to the conclusion that such accumulation was due to minute whirlwinds , and not , as had been held by M. Savart % , to the existence of secondary nodes .
A general conclusion at which Mr. Faraday arrived was this : whenever the different parts of a surface are vibrated to different degrees , there is always a tendency for the air to flow along the surface of the vibrating body towards the more violently agitated portions from the less agitated .
S 4 .
It is clear that , before examining the possible connexion between these superficial whirlwinds and the fact mentioned in S 1 , it is necessary to examine into the existence of air-currents of unclosed paths .
* Read Dec. 17 , 1868 .
See abstract , yol .
xvii .
p. 106 .
t Phil. Trans. 1831 , p. 299 .
X Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. t. xxxvi .
pp. 187 , 257 .
Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach caused by Vibration .
The tuning-fork which was most employed , and Fig. 1 .
which I call fork A , gave 128 complete vibrations per _________ second , and had the following dimensions :\#151 ; " \#163 ; \#151 ; ./ metre .
oy=0*0230 , o *=0-0172 , o z=0*3255 .
I call the three faces intersecting in o , the faces , 5 , and c respectively .
Let the symbol Hc , \amp ; c. denote the position of the fork when the face c is horizontal , \amp ; c. - S 5 .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; The fork A was set vibrating by drawing the bow across the edge oy ; the plane of vibration was accordingly parallel to b. The fork was then brought into the neighbourhood of an ascending thread of smoke .
The fork and smoke had in succession the three relative positions :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Hfi .
The smoke passed across the face a parallel to oy .
( 2 ) Ha- The smoke passed across the face b parallel to ox .
( 3 ) Ha .
The smoke passed across the face c parallel to ox .
In all cases the smoke clung to the surface across which it passed as though the fork were at rest .
S 6 .
Experiment2 .
\#151 ; A cylindrical glass tube T , 0-4 m. long and 0-042 m. in internal diameter , was fastened ( fig. 2 ) II in a horizontal position .
One end was left open , the other carried a cork , through the centre of which passed a horizontal tube t , 0*04 m. long and 0-0035 m. internal diameter .
These tubes were filled with smoke , and the fork A , which had been set vibrating as in S 5 , was brought \#166 ; 1 to the open end of the wide tube .
The fork and tube had in succession the four relative positions shown in fig. 2 , namely:\#151 ; p ( 1 ) Hc- Axis of tube perpendicular to a. ( 2 ) Hc .
Axis of tube perpendicular ===== to b. ( 3 ) H0 or Hft .
Axis of tube perpendicular to c. ( 4 ) The 'same as ( 3 ) , but having one prong of the fork thrust as far as possible into the tube T. In none of the cases did the smoke show an^ tendency to escape through the tube t , nor was fresh air drawn in .
S 7 .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; The cork and tube t of experiment 2 were withFig .
2 .
Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach caused by Vibration .
drawn and replaced by a-film-bubble of glycerine-soap-water .
The combinations of position of experiment 2 were repeated .
In none of the cases did the bubble show any variation from the vertical plane .
S 8 .
Hence I conclude that when a tuning-fork is in a state of plane vibration , no permanent true air-currents are formed ; that is , no air-currents could be detected departing from any side of the fork and penetrating the surrounding air in unclosed paths .
S 9 .
The superficial whirlwinds examined by Mr. Faraday may be supposed to be greatly modified when they are excited in the immediate neighbourhood of a solid body ; and as the * ' attraction " which formed the starting-point of the present examination ( S 1 ) is exerted upon a solid body in the neighbourhood of the resonant fork , some experiments , supplementary to those of Mr. Faraday , were found necessary .
S 10 .
Numerous experiments , which need not be here detailed , showed ( 1 ) that Mr. Faraday 's surface-currents , as exhibited on a freely vibrating fork , are very much modified when the fork vibrates in the immediate neighbourhood of a rigid plane , and ( 2 ) that the effects of any currents produced by vibration do not extend sensibly beyond O'OOfi m. from the fork 's face , and only even to this extent near the a face .
S 11 .
We shall see that the existence of such air-circuits , confined as they are to the immediate vicinity of the fork , are quite insufficient to account for the class of phenomena which have to be described , and which are similar to the fundamental fact mentioned in S 1 .
S 12 .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; To one end of a splinter of wood , 0*5 m. long , a card 0'08 m. square was fastened in such a way that the plane of the card was vertical , and contained the line of the splinter .
The whole was hung from a fibre of unspun silk ( fig. 3 ) and counterpoised .
The tuning-fork A was set in vibration as before , and was brought towards the card in the three relative positions corresponding to those of S 6 , namely:\#151 ; ( 1 ) ( Hc ) .
The face a parallel to the card .
( 2 ) ( Hc ) .
The face b parallel to the card .
( 3 ) ( Htt or Ha ) .
The face c parallel to the card .
In all three cases the card moved towards the fork .
The rate at which the card moved was greatest when the fork was sounding loudest .
In all three cases it was possible to draw the card from a distance of 0*05 m. at least , \#151 ; a distance quite beyond the direct influence of the superficial whirls which exist in position ( 1 ) ( on face a ) .
S 13 .
There is perhaps nothing essentially contrary to reason in the conception of two bodies in space free to move , so related to one another that while the first has no tendency to move towards the second , the second has a tendency to move towards the first .
But if the tendency of the one Fig. 3 .
38 Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach caused by Vibration .
to move be caused by the condition of the medium between the two , it seems inevitable that the tendency shall be mutual .
Thus , if that tendency result from a general diminution in the tension of an elastic medium between the two , they will be urged towards one another .
To test the reciprocity of the motive tendency in the case under consideration the following experiment was tried .
S 14 .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; The tuning-fork A was fastened to the end of a rod 1*0 m. long ; the other end of the rod was counterpoised , and the whole was hung from a silk tape .
If the vertical plane passing through the rod be called V , then the rod and fork received in succession the relative positions , \#151 ; ( 1 ) ( Hc ) .
V parallel to a. ( 2 ) ( Hc ) .
V parallel to b. ( 3 ) ( Ha or Hfi ) .
V parallel to c. In ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) the fork was simply hung from the suspended rod ; in ( 3 ) it was fastened to an iron rod in the direction of its axis , and the two were then attached to the suspended rod at their common centre of gravity .
The fork was sounded by the bow as before , and a piece of card Q'05 m. square was brought near the face a ( in 1 ) , b ( in 2 ) , and c ( in 3 ) .
In all cases the suspended fork approached the card ; but , owing to the great inertia of the suspended fork and counterpoise , the motion was much slower and less striking than was the case when the card was hung .
S 15 .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; Further , instead of a card , a second fork , B ( sounding A ) , was set in vibration , and brought into the neighbourhood of the vibrating suspended fork A. The three faces a , b ' , c of the fork B were held in succession parallel to the three faces a , b , c of the fork A , that is parallel to V when the faces a , b , c were in each of the three positions described in S 14 .
There were thus nine combinations effected .
In every case the suspended fork approached the stationary one .
Hence , to whatever cause the approach is due , the action is mutual .
S 16 .
The next question , the solution of which promised to throw light upon our problem , was this : What is the general or mean condition as to tension of a medium in which undulations are generated ?
Though this question has received very great attention from theoretical physicists , it has not been approached , as far as I am aware , from the side of experiment in the manner to be described .
S 17 .
Experiment 7_____The fork A was fixed in an upright position in its sounding-box ( fig. 4 ) .
One of its prongs was enclosed in a glass tube T , 0*4 m. long , and 0*042 m. internal diameter , carrying a cork through which the prong passed .
The upper end of T also carried a cork , through which passed a narrow tube t , bent twice at right angles , and dipping into water .
The internal diameter of t was 0*0035 m. The corks of the tube T were made tight with wax , and a little air was expelled from the tube T by warming it with the hand , so that when the atmospheric temperature was regained , the water stood at some distance up the tube t. The tube t Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach earned by .39 was firmly clamped in several places to prevent vibration , and consequent centrifugal effect .
On passing the bow across / , the enclosed prong was also set in vibration .
When the amplitude of the vibration was as great as possible , the water had sunk in the tube t to the amount of 0-003 m. The moment both prongs were suddenly stopped the level of the water in t was restored .
The depression of the water in t cannot be due to increased temperature ; for , if it were so , the increase of volume would be gradual and accumulative , and , on stopping the vibration , the contraction due to cooling would be also gradual ; whereas the attainment of maximum depression and the restoration to normal volume are practically instantaneous .
S 18 .
We have here accordingly an experimental proof that the rapid motion ( in this instance vibration ) of a body in a medium produces on the whole an effect similar to that which would be produced by the expansion of the body , namely , a displacement of the medium .
If air were perfectly elastic and had no inertia , no such total displacement could ensue , and I think I may safely predict that the apparent expansion of the medium will be found , in the case of hydrogen less , and in the case of carbonic acid greater than in that of air* .
S 19 .
Though we know the dimensions of the fork and'its rate of vibration , and though we can measure with tolerable accuracy the amplitude of its vibrations , we can only calculate from this the mean velocity of any given point , because in the middle of a vibration the fork is moving very much faster than towards the commencement or termination .
Hence this vibratory displacement cannot , with our present data , be connected with the known rate at which air enters a vacuum .
S20 .
The fundamental experiment of SS 1 , 12 next suggested for its explanation the following question .
Let there be two equal and opposite forces , P and Q , producing equilibrium upon a body having inertia ; let one , of them , P , be increased and diminished by a series of equal increments and decrements following one another in rapid succession .
Will the continually varying force , whose mean is P , maintain average equilibrium with the unaltered force Q ?
The plane of the cardboard in S 1 and S 12 is the seat of two opposing forces , namely the pressure of the atmosphere on both sides .
When the sounding-fork is held on one side , the pressure on that side undergoes successive equal increments and decrements .
Accordingly , if the question just proposed be answered in the negative , a suflfi-# Compare the sighing of an organ pip\#169 ; after it has been sounded .
40 Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach caused by Vibration , cient ground would be at hand for the approach of the cardboard to the fork .
S21 .
Experiment8.\#151 ; A " Cartesian diver " was made out of a testtube , a bubble of .air , and a beaker-glass of water .
This was so nicely adjusted that it rose when near the surface of the water , and sank when the top of the tube was 0 05 m. below the surface .
When resting on the bottom of the beaker , the top of the test-tube was 0*067 m. below the surface of the water .
When the diver was resting on the bottom of the beaker , the tuning-fork A , in a state of vibration , was presented to the glass in various directions with regard to the tube .
The fork was placed sometimes in contact with the water , sometimes in the neighbouring air , and sometimes in contact ( towards the base of the fork ) with the glass .
Although the vibration of the bottom of the beaker caused the diver to leap up it invariably sank again , and showed no sign of undergoing any alteration in specific gravity .
If , now , the question in S 20 were answerable in the negative , the equilibrium would have been destroyed , because the atmosperic pressure on the one hand , and the elasticity of the confined air on the other being equal and opposite forces , an alteration in one caused by its subjection to successive sonorous waves , would have altered the volume of the confined air and so destroyed the equilibrium .
S 22 .
I hoped to throw light upon the fundamental experiment of S 1 and S 12 , by varying the nature of the surface of the body which received the vibrations , with the view on the one hand of preserving them , and , on the other , of dispersing them as much as possible .
With this view experiments 9-12 were undertaken .
S 23 .
Experiment 9 , fig. 5.\#151 ; Upon one end of a splinter Fig. 5 .
of wood 0*5 m. long , a cylinder of cardboard 0*03 m. in diameter and 0*04 m. deep , closed at the bottom , was fastened in such a manner that its axis was horizontal , and its bottom in the plane Y. The cylinder was counterpoised , and the whole was hung from an unspun silk thread .
The vibrating-fork A was brought near the open end of the cylinder in the three positions already described , and also with one prong inserted into and nearly touching the bottom of the cylinder .
In all cases motion towards the fork ensued .
S 24 .
Experiment 10.\#151 ; A handful of cotton-wool was hung upon the splinter in place of the cylinder of experiment 12 .
The cotton-wool moved towards the fork from a distance of at least 0*05 m. , when the latter was presented to it in either of the three positions , S 8 .
Muslin and washleather behaved in a similar manner .
S 25 .
Experiment 11.\#151 ; A circular paper drum 0*25 m. in diameter having a rim 0*025 m. deep , was hung by a silk tape in the same manner , as the cylinder of S 23 .
Parchment was stretched across the wide end of Mr. F. Guthrie on Approach caused by Vibration .
41 a funnel 0*2 m. in diameter .
The neck of the funnel was placed in the mouth , and the drum of the funnel was brought opposite and parallel to the edged face of the paper drum .
Air was rapidly forced into and drawn out of the funnel .
The paper drum moved towards the funnel even from .a distance of 0*1 m. S26 .
Experiment 12.\#151 ; A sheet of cardboard 0*4 m. square was hung in the plane V from a rod 1 *0 m. long .
The cardboard was counterpoised , and hung from a silk tape .
The paper drum of S 25 was placed 0*05 in .
from the cardboard , and parallel to it , and was then thipped .
The cardboard moved towards the drum .
S 27 .
Experiment 13.\#151 ; A rod of brass 1*2 m. long , provided at the ends with disks of brass perpendicular to the rod 0*26 m. in diameter , was set in longitudinal vibration by means of resined leather .
One of the disks was held , during the vibration , near to the cardboard of S 26 , also near the cotton-wool and muslin of S 24 .
In all cases the suspended body moved towards the disk .
By this means it was easy to cause motion when the two were at the distance of 0*2 m. S 28 .
I have in the foregoing paragraphs sought to eliminate systematically secondary and disturbing influences from the fundamental experiment .
The experimental results appear to me to point to the following conclusions .
Whenever an elastic medium is between two vibrating bodies , or between a vibrating body and one at rest , and when the vibrations are dispersed in consequence of their impact on one or both of the bodies , the bodies will be urged together .
The dispersion of a vibration produces a similar effect to that produced by the dispersion of the air-current in Clement 's experiment , and , like the latter , the effect is due to the pressure exerted by the medium , which is in a state of higher mean tension on the side of the body furthest from the origin of vibration than on the side towards it .
In mechanics , \#151 ; in nature there is no such thing as a pulling force though the term attraction may have been used in the above to denote the tendency of bodies to approach , the line of conclusions here indicated tends to argue that there is no such thing as attraction in the sense of a pulling force , and that two utterly isolated bodies cannot influence one another .
If the setherial vibrations which are supposed to constitute radiant heat resemble the aerial vibrations which constitute radiant sound , the heat which all bodies possess , and which they are all supposed to radiate in exchange , will cause all bodies to be urged towards one another .

