On Irregularities observed in the Direction of the Compass Needles of H. M. S. Isabella and Alexander , in their late Voyage of Discovery , and caused by the Attraction of the Iron contained in the Ships .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Regiment of Artillery , F.R.S. &amp; rc .
Read February 18 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 112 .
] In this paper Captain Sabine shows in what respect the effects of local attraction in the above-mentioned ships were conformable to observations made in previous voyages ; and how far the errors found to take place on different courses , and under different dips of the magnetic needle , corresponded with those rules for calculating corrections recommended by Captain Flinders , who found that in every ship a compass would differ very materially from itself on being removed from one place to another , and this was found to be the case in the Isabella and Alexander .
As the ships ascended Davis 's Straits , the binnacle compasses , in consequence of their construction , became nearly useless ; accordingly , a standard compass was placed in the Isabella exactly amidship between the main and mizzen mast , on a stout cross-beam , about nine feet above the deck ; and in the Alexander amidship , on a box of sand five or six feet above deck .
Captain Sabine next describes the methods by which the points of no error in these compasses were determined , and which were not in either ship coincident with the magnetic meridian .
Captain Flinders has shown that the maximum of error in the same compass , and confined to the same spot , is different in different parts of the world ; and by multiplying the observations , and comparing the series , he was led to trace a connection between the amount of the errors and the dip of the needle , observing that the influence of local attraction on the compass needle increased with the dip .
This increase , however , says the author , was a relative one , being in comparison to the directive power of magnetism , then diminution of which is sufficient to account for the effects observed ; as will be evident upon reflecting , that though the magnetic force is greatest at the pole , its directive power must there have ceased : hence the inadequacy of the rule proposed by Captain Flinders , whereby the amount of error under any known dip being ascertained , the amount of error for any other dip may be calculated , by using as a multiplier the decimal expression of the proportion which the error in the one ascertained instance may have borne to the dip .
In the observations made in the Isabella at Shetland , where the dip is 740 21 ' , the maximum of error was 5ยง 34 ' easterly of the true variation , with the ship 's head at E.S.E. , and 50 40 ' westerly at W.N.W. , making an extreme difference of 110 20 ' .
By Captain Flinders 's rule , the common multiplier for this compass would have been about one twelfth , making the extreme difference 150 , whereas it was really more than 10 ? .
By a similar reference to the observations made by the Alexander in Baffin 's Bay , another proof is afforded of the inadequacy of Captain Flinders 's rule .

