46 Prof. J. Clerk Maxwell on [ Dec. 18 , value of 7r to 500 decimals and the date of its publication , was correct , as such value was compared with the author 's given in Mr. Rutherford 's paper of 1853 , and of course agrees with what is given above in this .
IV .
" On Double Refraction in a Viscous Fluid in motion .
" By J. Clerk Maxwell , M.A. , Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received October 31,1873 .
According to Poisson 's * theory of the internal friction of fluids , a viscous fluid behaves as an elastic solid would do if it were periodically liquefied for an instant and solidified again , so that at each fresh start it becomes for the moment like an elastic solid free from strain .
The state of strain of certain transparent bodies may be investigated by means of their action on polarized light .
This action was observed by Brewster , and was shown by Fresnel to be an instance of double refraction .
In 1866 I made some attempts to ascertain whether the state of strain in a viscous fluid in motion could be detected by its action on polarized light .
I had a cylindrical box with a glass bottom .
Within this box a solid cylinder could be made to rotate .
The fluid to be examined was placed in the annular space between this cylinder and the sides of the box .
Polarized light was thrown up through the fluid parallel to the axis , and the inner cylinder was then made to rotate .
I was unable to obtain any result with solution of gum or sirup of sugar , though I observed an effect on polarized light when I compressed some Canada balsam which had become very thick and almost solid in a bottle .
It is easy , however , to observe the effect in Canada balsam , which is so fluid that it very rapidly assumes a level surface after being disturbed .
Put some Canada balsam in a wide-mouthed square bottle ; let light , polarized in a vertical plane , be transmitted through the fluid ; observe the light through a Nicol 's prism , and turn the prism so as to cut off the light ; insert a spatula in the Canada balsam , in a vertical plane passing through the eye .
Whenever the spatula is moved up or down in the fluid , the light reappears on both sides of the spatula ; this continues only so long as the spatula is in motion .
As soon as the motion stops , the light disappears , and that so quickly that .
I have hitherto been unable to determine the rate of relaxation of that state of strain which the light indicates .
If the motion of the spatula in its own plane , instead of being in the plane of polarization , is inclined 45 ' to it , no effect is observed , showing that the axes of strain are inclined 45 ' to the plane of shearing , as indicated by the theory .
I am not aware that this method of rendering visible the state of strain * Journal de l'ficole Polytechnique , tome xiii .
cah .
xx .
( 1829 ) .
1873 .
] Double Refraction in a Viscous Fluid in motion .
47 of a viscous fluid has been hitherto employed ; but it appears capable of furnishing important information as to the nature of viscosity in different substances .
Among transparent solids there is considerable diversity in their action on polarized light .
If a small portion is cut from a piece of unannealed glass at a place where the strain is uniform , the effect on polarized light vanishes as soon as the glass is relieved from the stress caused by the unequal contraction of the parts surrounding it .
But if a plate of gelatine is allowed to dry under longitudinal tension , a small piece cut out of it exhibits the same effect on light as it did before , showing that a state of strain can exist without the action of stress .
A film of gutta percha which has been stretched in one direction has a similar action on light .
If a circular piece is cut out of such a stretched film and warmed , it contracts in the direction in which the stretching took place .
The body of a sea-nettle has all the appearance of a transparent jelly ; and at one time I thought that the spontaneous contractions of the living animal might be rendered visible by means of polarized light transmitted through its body .
But I found that even a very considerable pressure applied to the sides of the sea-nettle produced no effect on polarized light , and I thus found , what I might have learned by dissection , that the sea-nettle is not a true jelly , but consists of cells filled with fluid .
On the other hand , the crystalline lens of the eye , as Brewster observed , has a strong action on polarized light when strained either by external pressure or by the unequal contraction of its parts as it becomes dry .
I have enumerated these instances of the application of polarized light to the study of the structure of solid bodies as suggestions with respect to ' the application of the same method to liquids so as to determine whether a given liquid differs from a solid in having a very small " rigidity , " or in having a small ** tune of relaxation * , or in both ways .
Those which , like Canada balsam , act strongly on polarized light , have probably a small " rigidity , " but a sensible " time of relaxation .
" Those which do not show this action are probably much more " rigid , and owe their fluidity to the smallness of their " time of relaxation .
The Society then adjourned over the Christmas Becess to Thursday , January 8 , 1874 .
* The " time of relaxation " of a substance strained in a given manner is the time required for tljc complete relaxation of the strain , supposing the rate of relaxation to remain the same as at the beginning of this time .

