On expectorated Matter .
By George Pearson , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 15 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 313 .
] Dr. Pearson 's inquiry comprehends several varieties of expectorated matter , which he arranges under the following heads : z 1 .
That which is semi-transparent blueish , and of the consistence of jelly .
2 .
What is transparent and fluid , as mucilage .
The 3rd is thick , opake , and straw-coloured , or white , and very tenacious .
4 .
Puriform matter secreted without breach of surface .
5 .
Matter consisting of the mixture of the 2nd and 3rd , or 2nd and 4th varieties .
6 .
Pus from vomicae , arising from tubercles .
7 .
Pus from vomicae , consequent on simple inflammation .
The author next treats more at large of the sensible or obvious properties , including smell , taste , weight relative to water , and appearance under the microscope .
The next division of the subject includes the agency of heat ; the separation of a coagulum , or curd , at temperatures from 150 ?
to 170 ?
; the properties of the curd , and of the residuum which it leaves when burned ; the saline contents of the fluid separated from the curd , and obtained by evaporation .
Under the same head of agency of heat is also included the process of distillation to dryness , the properties of the fluid distilled , and of the residuum .
The action of alcohol is next tried , both on the residuum left by distillation , and also on different kinds of expectorated matter in their fresh state .
Next follow experiments on the miscibility of these matters with water , and also a set of experiments made with acetous acid .
After other miscellaneous experiments , the author concludes , that the various kinds of expectorated matter consist of the same ingredients , but that the proportion of these ingredients is somewhat different ; that expectorated matter consists of water containing certain saline and earthy bodies , together with a coagulable albuminous oxide , amounting in general to between one sixteenth and one twentieth of the whole , but sometimes not exceeding one fiftieth part , and at others amounting to as much as one tenth .
The saline ingredients are stated to be , Muriate of soda , varying from 1 to 2 in 1000 parts .
Potash , neutralized by animal oxide , 04 to 0-7 .
Phosphate of lime , 04 to 0-5 .
Ammonia , united probably to phosphoric acid .
Phosphate , perhaps of magnesia .
Carbonate of lime .
Indications of sulphate of lime .
Vitrified matter , perhaps with silica .
Oxide of iron in too small proportion to be estimated .
The last six substances scarcely amounting to one thousandth part .
The different consistence is ascribed to the different quantities of albuminous oxide .
The thicker matter is also said to be less saliine than that which is more fluid .
The author observes , that all the animal fluids contain potash , but that pus does not contain so much potash or muriate of soda as is contained in the above expectorated secretions .
Dr. Pearson also thinks it much more probable that the circulating and secreted fluids are impregnated with potash , as he has observed , than with soda , as observed by others .
Finally , we are informed , that expectorated matter contains globules , which have not before been observed , and seem to the author to denote organization .

