]\gt ; Dr. H. A Wilson .
[ June 3 , Thus with a lens 100 mm. focal length , aperture ratio F. 7 , field the greatest diameter of the image of any point ( defect due to i ) is mm. approx. ; that of a point on the axis ( defect due to e ) will be approx. mm. For these vaIues the effect of terms in of higher order would be appreciable ; but the results iustify the practice of correcting a single component\mdash ; the back one\mdash ; for astigmatism and spherical aberration , provided due atteution is paid to the securing of the condition for no distortion .
" " On the Discharge of Elecbricity from Hot Platinum By HAROLD A. WILSON , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Commnnicated by C. T. R. WILSON , F.PL .
S. Received June 3 , \mdash ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of a series of experiments on the discharge of electricity from hot platinum wires .
The main object of the investigation was to determine the influence exerted by the nature of the gas in which the wire is immersed .
The first part of the paper contains a short account of some of the results obtained by previous investigators .
The rest of the paper is divided into the following sections : ( 1 ) Description of apparattls , \amp ; c. ( 2 ) The leak in , nitrogen and water vapour .
( 3 ) The variation of the negative leak with the temperature .
( 4 ) The leak in hydrogen .
( 5 ) The leak from palladium in hydrogen .
( 6 ) Summary of principal results .
( 7 ) clusion .
The wire used was of pure platinum , and was mounted like the filament of an incandescent lamp , in a glass tube .
A platinum.cylinder surrounded the wire , and the current from the wire to the cylinder , wibh various differences of potential between them , was measured with a galvanometer .
The wire was heated by passing a rent through it , and its temperature was determined from its resistance .
It was found that at low pressures using a wire not specially cleaned a large negative leak could be obtained .
This leak , however , was not the same on different occasions with the same wire , nor with diflerent lvires at the same temperature .
The leak on first heating a wire is very large , but falls off with the time .
If the wire is then left cold for some hours the leak is again large on first heating and falls off as before .
If the wire is kept at a constant temperature and the leak measured On the Discharg of from Hot Platinum .
273 a long time , irregular variations in the leak occur , especially with a wire which has been muoh heated .
The wire disintegrates when heated at low pressures and evolves gas .
If the pressure is kept constant , by pumping , the apparatus of course soon gets filled with the gas evolved by the wire , which is mostly hydrogen .
The leak measured under such circumstances is , therefore , not the leak in air but that in hydrogen , which , as will be shown below , is much larger than that in air , and depends on the amount of hydrogen in the lvire .
When the wire is first heated hydrogen is gradually driven out of it and so the leak falls off .
On standing cold the wire again absorbs some of the hydrogen , and so the leak is larger again when the wire is heated .
Long-continued heating causes the surface of the wire to become covered with a network of deep cracks , and it seems probable that the irregular variations in the leak which sometimes occur are connected with the formation of these cracks .
The sudden opening of a crack exposes a fresh surface of platinum , and may suddenly set free some occluded hydrogen , and so produce a sudden increase in the leak .
It appears that the last traces of hydrogen can only be got rid of with the greatest difficulty , and the wires continus to evolve gas when heated in a vacuum for an extraordinarily long time .
In order to measure the leak in pure air , precautions were taken to get rid of the hydrogen .
The wire , aftsr being mounted in its tube , was boiled in nitric acid , and then washed with distilled water .
It was then heated to a high temperature in air at atmospheric pressure , and then the air was pumped out until the pressure was very low , the wire being kept hot all the time .
Air was then let in again , and pumped out , several times .
This treatment entirely got rid of all the irregularities in the negative leak , and greatly dimimshed the evolution of gas by the wire .
Cleaning the wire with nitric acid , and changing the air in this way , was found to diminish the leak to something like one thousandth part of its ordinary value , and very thorough cleaning of the wire with nitric acid diminished the leak to about one part in 250,000 .
The presence of traces of phosphorus pentoxide was found to enormously increase the negative leak , and it is known that alkali salts have a similar effect .
The results obtained lead to the conclusion that the negative leak is due to the presence of traces of hydrogen , or possibly other substances in the wire .
The reasons for believing that the leak is mainly due to hydrogen will be mentioned later .
With a particular wire , treated in the way described , in air , the small remaining negative leak only falls off slowly at a constant temperature , and does not vary in an irregular manner , so that its variation with the pressure and temperature can be measured .
274 Dr. H. A. Wilson .
[ June 3 , The negative leak in air at constant temperature in general increases with the pressure .
This is shown to be due to ionisation of the air produced by the collisions of the negative ions coming from the vire with air molecules .
If the P.D. used is small , no ionisation by eollisions occurs , and then the negative leak is independent of the pressure at low pressures .
If ions leave the wire , the number of ions reaching the cylinder is shown to be given approximately by the formula In this formula potential difference between wire and cylinder , radius of cylinder , radius of wire , gas pressure , maximum number of negative ions produced by one negative ion in going 1 cm .
at unit pressure , potential through which a negative ion must fall to enable it to ionise an air molecule .
Professor Townsend has shown that the number of negative ions produced by one negative ion in going 1 cm .
is given approximately by the formula where X is the electric intensity .
This formula of Townsend 's is used in dedncing the above expression for It is shown that varies nearly inversely as the absolute temperature of the gas through which the negative ion moves .
The variation of the negative leak with the teml ) erature is investigated theoretically on the assumption that the liberation of negative ions or corpuscles at the surface of the platinum is analogous to the evaporation of a liquid , and the formula is obtained .
In this negative leak per sq .
cm .
of platinum , absolute temperature , energy in gramme calories required to produce 1 gramme molecular weight of ions , a constant .
formula of this type was first used by the author to caiculate the the production of ions from the temperature vari tion of the leak from hot platinum in 1901 .
See ' Phil. Tr , 1901 , p. 430 .
1903 .
] On the Discharge of Blectricity from Hot .
275 It is found that this formula accurately represents the variation of the negative leak with the temperature .
is found to be 130,000 , and it is shown that it cannot vary more than one part in one hundred thousand per degree Centigradc .
The value of the constant A is shown to be diminished by cleaning the wire with nitric acid .
With a wire boiled for a few minutes in nitric acid while with a wire vsry thoroughly cleaned The negative leak in hydrogen was measured and found to be very much greater than in air .
At low pressures , using a P.D. too small to produce ionisation by collisions , the current is proportional to the pressure of the hydrogen .
The leak from a wire in hydrogen at mm. pressure is severaI thousand times that from a clean wire in air or in a vacuum .
It is shown that the negative leak in hydrogen depends on the amount of hydrogen absorbed by the wire .
YVhen the temperature or pressure is suddenly varied , it takes a considerable time for equilibrium to be established between the hydrogen in the wire and that outside , and the leak varies in consequence with the time .
The following table gives the negative leaks at C. at several pressures in hydrogen .
Pressure .
Current per .
centimetres .
mms .
ampe 0 .
, , The following table gives the values of the constants and A found for wires in air and hydrogen at several pressures:\mdash ; Pressure .
Q. A. ( 1 ) Thoroughly cleaned wire in air or vacuum 155,000 6 ( 2 ) Cleaned wire in or vacuum 6 ( 3 ) mm. 120,000 ( 4 ) , , 85,900 ( 5 ) , , 36,000 If we regard the leak in air , a vacuum , as due to traces of hydrogen occluded in the wire , then we see from the above table that steadily increases as the amount of hydrogen in the wire diminishes .
The constant , however , increases with increasing quantity of occluded hydrogen , when very little hydrogen is present , but when the amount of hydrogen is further increased it attains a maximum , and then diminishes .
The fact that the negative leak in air at low pressures always falls off with long continued heating , conlirms the view that it is due to occluded hydrogen .
Treating the wire with nitric acid , of Electricity from Hot Platinum .
[ June 3 enormously diminishes the 11egative ] , and also , to a large extent , stops the evolution of gas from the wire when it is heated .
The nitric acid , of course , oxidises the hydrogen .
O. W. has recently published two papers on the negative leak from hot platinum and other substances .
He obtained large negative leaks from platinum , which behaved in the irregular manner which I have described above as occurring when using vires not specially cleaned .
The results which I have obtained do not confirm the theoretical conclusions to which he has been led .
The paper also contains the resuIts of measurements of the positive leak in air and hydrogen .
The results confirm the vielv that the positive leak from clean wires is due to ionisation of the gas molecules at the surface of the platinum .
The view pnt forward in this paper with regard to the negative leak is that it is generally due to the emission of negative ions by hydrogen occluded in the platinum .
Other substances , such as phosphorus pentoxide and alkali salts , also give rise to a negativs leak when they are present .
Air and nitrogen do not appear to produoe any negative leak appreciable on a galvanometer .
It is probable that a pure platinum heated in a perfect vacuum would not discharge any electricity at all , either positive or negative , to an extent appreciable on a galvanometer .
* ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc vol. 11 , Part IV ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 71 , 1903 .

