V. An Account of Dr Robert Hook 's Invention of the Marine Barometer , with its Description and Uses , published by order of the R. Society , by E. Halley , R. S. S. SInce it was first found that the Torricellian Tube , commonly called the Mercurial Barometer , by the rising and falling of the Quick-silver therein , doth presage the Changes of the Air , in relation to fair and soul weather ; upon several years observation of it , it has been proved and adjusted for that purpose by Dr Robert Hook ; and there have been by him many attempts to improve the Instrument , and render the Minute Divisions on the Scale thereof more sensible .
He also judging that it might be of great use at Sea , contrived several ways to make it serviceable on board Ship ; one of which he explained to the R. Society at their weekly meeting in Gresham College , January 2 .
1667/ 8 .
since which time he hath further cultivated the Invention , and some years ago produced before the said Society , the Instrument I am now to describe , which for its subtilty and usefulness , seems to surpass all other performances of the like nature .
Till such time as the Authors present Indisposition will give him leave to bestow freely his thoughts on this subject upon the Public , it is the opinion of the Society , that such an account be given of this Contrivance , as may render it known , and recommend it to the Mariners use , for which it was principally intended .
The Mercurial Barometer requiring a perpendicular posture , and the Quick-silver vibrating therein with great violence upon any Agitation , is therefore incapable of being used at Sea , ( though it hath lately been contrived to be made portable ) So it remained to find out some other principle , wherein the position of the Instrument was not so indispensably necessary : For this , all those that use the Sea are obliged to the great facility Dr Hook has always shown , in applying Philosophical Experiments to their proper uses .
It is about 40 years since , that the Thermometers of Robt .
de Fluctibus , depending on the dilatation and contraction of included Air by Heat and Cold , have been disused , upon discovery that the Airs pressure is unequal ; that inequality mixing it self with the effects of the warmth of the Air in that Instrument .
And instead thereof was substituted the Sealed Thermometer , including Spirit of Wine ( first brought into England , out of Italy , by Sir Robert Southwell ) as a proper Standard of the temper of the Air in relation to Heat and Cold ; that ethereal Spirit being of all the known liquors the most susceptible of dilatation and contraction , especially with a moderate degree of either Heat or Cold .
Now this being allowed as a Standard , and the other Thermometer that includes Air being graduated with the same divisions , so as at the time when the Air was included , to agree with the SpiritThermometer in all the degrees of Heat and Cold , noting at the same time the precise height of the Mercury in the common Barometers : It will readily be understood that whenever these two Thermometers shall agree , the pressure of the Air is the same it was , when the Air was included and the Instrument graduated : That if in the Air-Thermometer the liquor stand higher than the division marked thereon , corresponding with that on the SpiritGlass , it is an indication that there is a greater pressure of the Air at that time , than when the Instrument was graduated .
And the contrary is to be concluded when the Air-glass stands lower than the Spirit , viz. that then the Air is so much lighter , and the Quick-silver in the ordinary Barometers lower than at the said time of Graduation .
And the spaces answering to an inch of Mercury will be more or less , according to the quantity of Air so included , and the smallness of the Glass Cane , in which the liquor rises and falls , and may be augmented almost in any proportion , under that of the specific gravity of the Liquor of the Thermometer to Mercury .
So as to have a foot or more for an inch of Mercury , which is another great convenience .
It has been observed by some , that in long keeping this Instrument , the Air included either finds a means to escape , or deposits some vapours mixed with it , or else for some other cause becomes less Elastick , whereby in process of time it gives the height of the Mercury somewhat greater than it ought ; but this , if it should happen in some of them , hinders not the usefulness thereof , for that it may at any time very easily be corrected by experiment , and the rising and falling thereof are the things chiefly remarkable in it , the just height being barely a curiosity .
In these parts of the World , long experience has told us , that the rising of the Mercury forebodes fair weather after foul , and an Easterly or Northerly wind ; and that the falling thereof , on the contrary signifies Southerly or Westerly winds , with Rain , or stormy Winds , or both ; which latter it is of much more consequence to provide against at Sea than at Land ; and in a storm , the Mercury beginning to rise is a sure sign that it begins to abate , as has been experienced in high Latitudes both to the Norwards and Southwards of the Equator .
The Form of this Instrument is shown in the Cut by Fig. 8 .
wherein AB represents the Spirit-Thermometer , graduated from o , or the freezing point , through all the possible degrees of the heat or cold of the Air , at least in these Climates .
C D CD is the Air-Thermometer , graduated after the same manner , with the like degrees .
OF is a Plate applied to the side of the Thermometer C D , graduated into spaces answering to inches and parts of an inch of Mercury , in the Common Barometers .
G , a Hand standing on the Plate at the height of the Mercury thereon , as it was when the Instrument was graduated , as suppose here at 29 1/ 2 inches .
LMa Wire on which the Plate OF slips up and down , parallel to the Cane of the Thermometer C D. K , any point at which the Spirit stands at the time of observation ; suppose at 38 on the Spirit-Thermometer ; Slide the Plate OF till the Hand G stand at 38 on the Air-Thermometer , and if the Liquor therein stand at 38 likewise , then is the pressure of the Air the same as at the time of Graduation ; viz. 29 , 5 ; but if it stand higher , as at 30 at I , then is the pressure of the Air greater ; and the division on the sliding Plate against the Liquor , shows the present height of the Mercury to be 29 inches 7 tenths .
And this may suffice as to the manner of using it .
I had one of these Barometers with me in my late Southern Voyage , and it never failed to prognostic and give early notice of all the bad weather we had , so that I depended thereon , and made provision accordingly ; and from my own experience I conclude that a more useful contrivance hath not for this long time been offered for the benefit of Navigation .
These Instruments are made according to the direction of Dr Hook , by Mr Henry Hunt , Operator to the Royal Society , who will furnish any Gentleman with them , and give them directions how to use them .
Printed for Sam .
Smith and Benj .
Walford , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes Arms in St. Pauls

