]\gt ; On the Amplitude of Sound-waves . .
" " On the Amplitude of Sound-waves.\ldquo ; By Lord M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1877 .
Scarcely any attempts have been made , so far as I am aware , to surs the amplitude of sound-bearing aves , and , indeed , the blem is one of considerable .
Even if the measurement cffl ) be effected , the result would have reference only to the waves actual experimemted upon , and would be of no great value in the absence some means of defining the intensity of the correspondin sound .
It ] .
bad policy , however , to despise quantitative estimates because they are rough ; and in the present case it is for many reasons desirable to ; general idea of the magnitudes of the quantities with which we have deal .
Now it is evident that a superior limit to the amplitude of wave giving an audible sound may be arrived at from a knowledge of the energ which must be expended in a given time in order to generate them , of the extent of surface over which the waves so generated are spread the of hearing .
An estimate founded on these data will be too high , both because sound-waves must suffer some tion in their progress , and also because a part , and in some cases a large of the energy expended never takes the form of sound-waves at all .
The source of sound in my experiment was a whistle , mounted on Wolf 's bottle , in connexion with which was a siphon manometer for } purpose of measuring the pressure .
This apparatus was inflated from the lungs an india-rubber tube , and 1}ith a little practioe 4 there was uo difficulty in a sufficiently constant blast of the I requisite duration .
The most suitable pressure was determined by preliminary trials , and was measured by a column of water centimetres high .
The first point to be determined was the distance from the source to which the sound remained clearly audible .
The xperiment was tried in the middle of a fine still vinter 's day , and it wns that the whistle was heard without effort at a distance of 820 mstres .
In order to guard against any effect of wind , the precaution was taken of repeating ' the observation with the direction of propagation reversed , but )without 1 any being observable .
The only datum necessary for the calculation is the ntity of air which passes through the whistle in given time .
This was determined by a atory experiment .
The india-rubber tube was put into connexion with the interior of a rather large bell-glass open at the bottom , and this was pressed gradually into a large vessel of water in such a manmer that the manometer indicated a pressure of centimetres .
The capacit of the glass 5200 cubic centimetres , and it was found that the supply of air to last seconds of time .
The consumption of air as }herefore196 cubic centimetres per second .
On Rainfall and the Sun-spot Period .
In working out the resuIt it will be most convenient to use consistently 16 C.G.S. system .
On this system of measurement the pressure nployed was dynes per square centimetre , and therefore the ork expended psr second in generating the waves was gS .
Now the mechanical value of a series of progressive waves is the as the kinetic energy of the whole mass of air concerned , supto be moving with the maximum velocity of vibration ( v ) ; so that , 8 denotes the area of the wave-front considered , be the velocity of und , and be the density of air , the mechanical vaJue of the waves sing in a unit of time is expressed by , in which the umerical value of is about 34100 , and that of about 0013 .
In the oesent application is the area of the surface of a hemisphere whose adius is 82000 centimetres ; and thus , if the whole energy of the escapag air were converted into sound , and there were no dissipation on the , the value of at the distance of 82000 centimetres be given the equation rhence centimetre per second .
result does not require a knowledge of the pitch of the somld .
If he period be , the relation veen the maximum excursion , and the naximum velocity is the present case the note of the whistle was a frequency of bout 2730 .
Hence the amplitude of the aerial particles less than a ten-millionth of oentimetre .
I am inclined to think that on a still night a sound of this pitch , whose amplitude is only hundred-millionth of a centimetre , would still audible .
III .
" " On the alleged Correspondence of the Rainfall at Madras with the Sun-spot Period , and on the True Criterion of Periodicity in a series of Variable Quantities .
By General STRACHEY , R.E. , C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1877 .
A paper has recently been printed by Dr. Humter , the of tistics to the Government of India , having for its object to that the records of the rainfall at Madras , for a peri extending sixty-four years , establish a cycle of rftinfall that ] ) hich rked coincidence with a corresponding cycle of sun-spots\mdash ; the rainfall and sun-spots attaining a minimum iu the ellth , first , second years , and a maximum in the fifth

