]\gt ; VOL. XXXVI .
* ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 36 , p. 167 .
along the platform , and having its centre upon the line of the pkt form groove , is set a magnet\mdash ; callsd by Hughes the " " \mdash ; of considerable magnetic moment .
The compensator is so as to bo capable of being rotated round a vertical axis through its } centre over a scale ; and , according to the original design of instrument , the compensator and scals are provided with an arrango meant whereby they may be shitted along the ] atform , so that can be made to approach nearer to the suspended needle when a mon powerful compensation is desired , or removed further away when q ) balance wbtained bixing tentral pivot ofmore delicate magnetic force iompensated.scale aomIn practice t pensator at a distance of SO or more centims. , and turning the compensator upon its pivot until its magnetic force on the suspended ) needle , or rather its resolved part in the axial line of the platform , was exactly equal and opposite to that of the piece of iron or steel .
[ 2 .
] Theory of the Magnetic Balance.\mdash ; In fig. 1 , let the line represent tentral lfmagnetically eThethe platform ofpoint Mhethe centre obalance lying Theory of the Magnetic Balance of Hughes .
OmPenSator NS , which has been turned through an angle OMS order to balance the magnetic force exerted on the suspended eedle at by the specimen of iron or steel placed at A. It is pequired to determine the relation between the angle of turning the magnetic force thereby brought to bear along the axis AX at tending to thrust back the suspended needle to its zero point .
Let length of the componsator be called , and the distance of from .
It is evident that , in genera ] , the resultant magnetic force at to the compensator will not be along the axis AX , but may be resolved into a part acting at right angles to that axis , and a part parallel to it .
The former part will be parallel to the magnetic meridian , and , therefore , when the needle is at zero , this part will not tend to move the needle to either side .
Its only action is to increase or diminish ( according to circumstances ) the directive force of the earth 's magnetism upon the needle , and render it either more or less ensitive .
The other part is that which acts along the axis and balances the gnetic force of the iron or steel bar at A. When the compensator lies at right aIlgles to AX this component of the force vanishes by symmetry : consequently of the scale lies in this line .
If the compensator be turned through an ange , the component of its magnetic force in the line AX will increase to a maximum when .
The values of the force for different angles be calculated as follows:\mdash ; Call an .
4 angle NBM Then the forces along BS and BN resolved along AB will give the following resultant ; being the strength of the pole of the compensator .
But ; ; and ; Whence ( 1 ) , .
S. P. Thompson .
On the or , writing for the ratio ( 2 ) which for brevity we may write where ) It is obvious from the mere form of this expression that it is nvestigate tscertain herve turpose Itherefore , necessariannccrements agnetic f for the graduation of a scale for the instrument .
The expression is an awkward one numerical calculation , owing to the fractional exponents of the denominators ; but process of calculation can be somewhat shortened by taking as simple integer , and the successive values of such that the sines are simple decimals .
In the following tables will be found the values of the function , calculated for several cases , the angles being in all cases expressed in degrees and decimals of degrees , not in degrees , minutes , and seconds .
The object in calculating these values was to ascertain the proportions of and , which would enable the scale readings of the compensator to be used without the labour of structing arbitrary interpolation tables for the calibration of the readings .
Table ) S4 ] Theory of the lIfagnetic Balance of Hughes .
Table Table III .
Table sine P Prof. S. P. Thompson .
On the Table V. The values of set down as observed in the last column of the preceding tables were obtained by noting the deflexions produced on a tangent magnetometer , with very small needles , by a magnet placed at the requisite distance ( measured horizontally at right angles to the magnetic meridian ) , capable of rotation in a vertical plane passing through its centre and through that of the magnetometer .
The readings were hen multiplied by such a constant as would make the value at coincide with the value at the same angle .
The departures at other parts of the scale are partly due to errors of observation , rtly due to the fact that the distance between the poles of the magnet is less than the distance between the ends .
Table Theory of the Magnetic Balance of Hughes .
Table The calculated values of are plotted out in the two sheets of curves ( figs. 2 and 3 ) accompanying the tables .
The curves for and are given twice , being drawn again with enlarged ordinates show on a larger scale their close approximation to straight lines np to about [ 8 .
] From the foregoing tables , and from the curves appended , several conclusions may be immediately drawn with respect to the design of the magnetic balance .
A simple inspection of the curves will show that thsy belong to a family in which , in general , there is a concavity near the origin , and a convexity as the limiting value is approached at the point corresponding to the position of the comensator .
Those curves for which , or less than 3 , show the convexity very markedly .
In those for values of higher than 7 ( only one has been drawn , namely , that for the convexity of the upper tion asserts itself .
The curve for approximates very nearly to a curve of sines , as indeed might be suspected from the equation .
For those values of which lie between 4 and 6 inchlsive , the first half of the curve is very nearly a straight line , so nearly so that for the curves and the values of the ordinates do not differ by 1 cent. from those which they would have for actual straight lines lying along the mean slope of the respective curves as far as .
In other words , for angles less than the magnetiforce exercised along the axis of the balance by the compensator when it is turned proportional , within 1 per cent. of accuracy , to the angle through which has been , provided the disiance of the corrvpensator ) the needle be not less than four and not greater than five the halflength of the npensator .
This result may be verified from equation ( 2 ) by finding Prof. S. ) .
Thompson .
On the FIG. 2 .
Theory of the Magnetic Balance of Hughes .
Prof. S. P. Thompson .
On the value of will give the force when equal to of the when .
Writing in the sines of these angles and equating times the force at to 2 times the force at , we get the valuo : ; .
Or , solving similarly for the case that the force at shau be double the force at , we get .
Here , however , the error , near the intermediate angle of are not inconsiderable , exceeding per cent. In any case we shall not be far wrong if we adiust balance so that , and confine our readings within of zero .
, For purposes where great accuracy is not essential the readings might 30 centims. and centims. respectively , so that xtended asince turves fnsator iflecting iifferent positions tensitiveness oheIn tance oroceed tonsideration oction o needle .
horizontal plans ; and therefore in every position , save only when at to the zero of its scale or when end-on to the indicating needle , the force exercised by it on the needle would have a component in the magnetic meridian .
As remarked above , the effect of this component would be to increase or diminish the directive force of the earth 's magnetism upoIl the needle , according as the pole of the com. pensator pointed northwards , or southwards .
The sensitiveness of the indicating needle will , of course , be affected by .
this component ; being a maximum when the component is such as nearly to astatiss it .
But it is evident that if the needle be nearly astatised when the compensator is at zero , it will not be so astatised when the pensator is moved right or left .
The of the needle will diminish as the effective force of the compensator increases by its being turned .
The calculation for the component of the force at this point is as follows:\mdash ; Calling the part of the magnetic force at ( fig. resolved at right angles to AX , we have\mdash ; But and whence I884 .
] Theory of the Magnetic Batance of Hughes .
:riting , as before , , this becomes:\mdash ; ( S ) .
that tance idjusted f , we get the The needle , therefore , if nearly astatissd when , will still be nearly astatised when does not exceed ; but beyond this value Jlthe meridional component of the force falls off greatly , and the fflensitiveness alters [ 5 .
] ggested Mthe Magnetic \mdash ; The preceding investigation has led to the following suggestions:\mdash ; lstly .
The compensator should be set so as to revolve against a vertical circle placed av right angles to the magnetic meridian , having its centre on the same level as the indicating needle , and east or west of it .
In this position , which was that chosen for the experiments in which the values of were observed for purpose of comparison with the calculated values in the preceding part of these notes , magnetic force of the compensator has no resolved part in the magnetic meridian at the point where the indicating needle is placed .
The sensitiveness of the needle is , therefore , the same in all positions to which the compensator may be turned in its own plane .
ndly .
A small magnet lying magnetically north and south of the indicating needle is used to astatise it to the required rdly .
The compensator is placed so that the distance between its centre and that of the indicating needle is about times the halflength between the poles of the compensator .
If the latter be a nob very thick flat , it may tcly assumed that the poles are about one-tenth of the whole lcngth from the ends , so that no very important error can arise if a nce cqual to five times the half-length veen the ends of magnet is selected .
When this is done it is safe to assume that for all positions of compensator within on either side of zero , the tgnetic forco which it exerts on the pole of needle is iional within 2 per cent. to the degroes of through which the thy .
In the preceding investigation it has been assumed through out that the length of the indicating needle was small relatively to and , so that the terms of the second and higher orders due to its length might be neglected .
This was not the case in the original instrument of Hughes , in which the needle was 5 centims. in length .
The use of a very small needle is open to the objection that it is not so sensitive as an index .
It is therefore proposed to substitute as an indicating needle one of the type sometimes termed " " unipolar that is to say , having one pole set in the axis of rotation , so that only pole has a moment of couple about the axis of suspension .
A steel needle about 5 centims. long has about centims. of its length turned up at right angles , the suspending fibre of silk being attached to the turned-up end ; a counterpoise is added behind , and a small addi .
tional weight is placed below on a brass wire attached immediately .Af#S84 .
] Chemical Corrosion and Voltaic Current .
the centre of suspension .
This needle is placed , with its one * : affective pole in the axial line of the balance , level with the centre of the compensator .
The balance , with the modifications described , is represented in February 21 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
ations oCorrosion ttaic CGoRE , Received February 1 The chief object of this research was to ascertain the amounts of voltaic current produced by the chemical corrosion of known weights of various metals in different liquids .
The research was also made to throw light upon the conditions which determine the entire conversion of potential molecular energy into external i.e. , available ) \ldquo ; electric current .
The method adopted was to take about six or eight ' ounces by measure of a corrosive electrolyte and divide it into two equal volumes in two similar glass vessels .
Two pieces of metal of equal dimensions were then cut from the same sheet , cleaned perfectly , and weighed .
One of the pieces was employed as the positive plate of a voltaic cell in one of the portions of liquid , and the other as a comparison corrosion sheet in the other portion .
The negative metal of the voltaic cell was in nearly all cases a large cylinder of sheet platinum , and the positive one .
The positive and comparison plates were wholly immersed in the separate portions of liquid , except that the former had a narrow exterior projecting strip for connexion in a circuit .
The current from the cell was passed by means of a small sheet silver anode inch by inch ) , and a smaller silver cathode inch by in a third vessel , through a cyanide of silver plating solution colltaining the least practicable proportion of free potassic cyanide in order to obtain the maximum amount of silver deposit .
During each experiment observations were made of any liberation

