Experiments and Observations on the influence of the Nerves of the eighth Pair on the Secretions of the Stomach .
By B. C. Brodie , Esq. F.R.S. Communicated by the Society for the Promotion of Animal Chemistry .
Read February 10 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 102 .
] Former experiments having shown that when the functions of the brain are destroyed the secretory organs invariably ceased to perform their office , and consequently that the various secretions were probably dependent on nervous influence , it appeared desirable to ascertain this point by dividing the nervous branches by which some one gland is supplied , and observiig the effect .
But on account of the difficulty of the operation itself , and of the injury done to adjacent parts , it appears extremely difficult to determine the real influence of the nerves in the natural state of all the functions .
There are , however , some experiments on the preternatural secretion excited by the action of arsenic , and its interruption by division of the nerves , which the author thinks may deserve to be recorded as tending to elucidate so important a subject .
Mr. Brodie had formerly observed in dogs poisoned by arsenic , a very copious secretion of mucus and watery fluid from the coats of the stomach and intestines , and so rapidly excited , that he conceived this to be a favourable instance for observing the effect of dividing those nerves which supply the stomach .
He consequently divided the nerves of the eighth pair , with the accompanying sympathetic nerves in the neck of a dog , and immediately afterwards inserted ten grains of arsenic into a wound in the thigh .
The symptoms which usually appear from the poison of arsenic were soon produced ; but though the dog lingered under this treatment three hours and a half , none of that watery mucus observable in other instances of death by arsenic was found in the stomach and intestines , though both stomach and intestines were found much inflamed .
In a second experiment , during nine hours that the dog lingered under the effects of the arsenic applied also to a wound , no such secretion had taken place .
In the third instance , the dog was made to swallow a solution of arsenic , with the same result , after he had lingered three hours .
Since in the preceding trials , respiration was disturbed in consequence of the injury done to the nerves supplying the thorax , a fourth experiment was made by dividing the lower branches of the eighth pair after their passage through the thorax , where they appear in the oesophagus , just above the cardiac orifice of the stomach .
In this mode of operating the respiration was not affected ; but still the symptoms and visible effects of the arsenic were the same as before , without any fluid evacuations from either the stomach or intestines .
From these experiments , the author thinks it hardly possible to avoid the conclusion , that the suppression of these secretions was owing to the division of the nerves ; and that the secretions from the stomach , in general , must be much under the control of the nervous system .
But it appears premature to deduce any conclusion respecting their influence over other secretions .

