V. " Account of Spectroscopic Observations of the Eclipse of the Sun , August 18 , 1868 , in a letter addressed to the President of the Royal Society .
By Captain C. T. HAIG , R.E. Communicated by the President .
Received September 21 , 1868 .
Poonta , 24th August , 1868 .
MY DEAR SIR , -I hasten to send you an account of the observations I have fortunately been able to make at Beejapoor of the total eclipse on the 18th instant with one of the hand-spectroscopes sent out by the Royal Society in the care of Lieut. Herschel , R.E. , not waiting to let my report be forwarded by Colonel Walker , R.E. , my departmental superior , on account of the delay which would necessarily be caused thereby .
I may state at once that I observed the spectra of two red flames close to each other , and in their spectra two broad bright bands quite sharply defined , one rose-madder and the other light golden .
These spectra were soon lost in the spectrum of the moon 's edge just before emergence , which had also two well-defined bright bands ( one green and one indigo ) about a quarter the width of the bands in the spectra of the flames , this spectrum being again soon lost in the bright sunlight .
I will now proceed to give a somewhat detailed account of the observations , in which Captain Tanner , Bombay Staff Corps and of the Minar Survey ( who , on my earnest solicitation , accompanied me ) , and Mr. Kero Laxuman , Professor of Mathematics in the Deccan College , took part , and during which Mr. ilunter , Bombay Civil Service , and Dr. Kielhorn , Professor of Sanskrit in the Deccan College , were present as non-professional observers .
Our instrumental equipment consisted as follows:-Mr .
Kero Laxuman brought an ordinary pedestal-telescope of 2k-inch aperture and 36 inches focal length by Horne and Thornthwaite , which he temporarily mounted on a stand equatorially ; and he had a scale fitted inside a 60-power eyepiece , which , however , he was unfortunately not able to use , on account of a fall which his instrument sustained from being blown down by the high wind ; he therefore had to use another eyepiece of power 70 , not furnished with a scale .
He also had a pocket chronometer beating five times to two seconds , by Arnold and Dent .
Captain Tanner had an Everest theodolite by Troughton and Simms , having a remarkably good telescope , 1-7-inch aperture and 18 inches focal length , and an eyepiece of power 46 .
I had one of the Royal Society 's small hand-spectroscopes , and a small 6-inch transit theodolite by Troughton and Simms , the cap of the objectglass of which I had cut so as to receive the prism-cap of the spectroscope , and had fitted one to the other , so that I could at once shift the prism-cap from its own telescope to that of the theodolite , and vice versed .
I had also a black frame about 2 feet long by 1 foot high with a slit in the centre , the width of which was regulated by turning a black excentric cylinder .
This I had previously used in observing the lines in the solar and other common spectra , and I placed it 10 feet from the theodolite ( the shortest distance the telescope could focus ) ; and close at the back of it I placed a heliotrope held by a Survey Signaller , intending , if opportunity offered , to examine the lines in the spectrum of the corona .
In the diaphragm of the theodolite-telescope I had a system of wires ( shown by diagram below ) , which I had intended for assistance in general observations of the flames , in case I should find that I could make no satisfactory spectrum-observations , which , from the absence Fi .
of any slit arrangement in the spectroscope , I was rather inclined to anticipate .
The wires A A , BB were vertical , C C , D D , EE horizontal , FF the direction of the moon 's path at the middle of the eclipse , Gc and GG perpendicular to F F. This system gave so many fixed distances and points that I thought it would be useful both in estimating the position and the height of / the flames .
However , its utility was not put to the test ; for the little time I had was given to the spectroscope .
I also had an eight-day mean-time chronometer beating half-seconds , by Baker .
The sky in the early morning of the 18th was very cloudy , so that our hopes of success were very low ; but as it afterwards brightened up for a while rather suddenly , we were somewhat encouraged to hope for a similar brightening during part of the eclipse .
Soon , however , at about 7 o'clock , it darkened again , and remained so till after the total phase was over , occasional openings in the nimbi giving us glimpses of the sun through the cirrocumuli which were floating very high up .
At 7 o'clock we had reached our station of observation , which was on a large solid tower called the Upari Btiij , 67 feet high and about 60 feet diameter ( on the top were two guns , one of which was 31 feet long)-one of the many ruins of the city , and .
a most favourable position from which to observe the phenomena of the eclipse and the general aspect of the surrounding country .
On account of the prevailing very high wind , we planted our instruments on and near the top of the external stone staircase so as just to be protected by the tower from the wind .
Mr. Kero Laxuman at first set up his telescope on the top of the tower ; but it was blown down , as I have previously mentioned .
This accident much .
interfered with the carrying out of our preconcerted plan of observation , which was as follows .
Mr. Kero Laxuman and Captain Tanner were to take the times of first and last contact , the latter by observing the actual occurrences , the former by measuring several lengths of the common chord soon after first and before last contact , with the aid of the scale in his 60-power eyepiece and noting the times .
Captain Tanner ( an expert delineator ) was , during totality , to take command of Mr. Kero Laxuman 's telescope , measuring the heights of the flames at times which would be recorded by Mr. Kero Laxuman , whose whole attention during totality was to be given to recording the times of occurrence of any phenomena that he , or either of us , might observe .
Captain Tanner was also to make rapid sketches of all he saw , and I was to confine myself to spectrum-observations .
Unfortunately , contact was not observed until about fifty seconds after the commencement , when Captain Tanner at once made a sketch of the obscuration , Mr. Kero Laxuman recording the time .
The sketch made the common chord equal to 3 ' at 7h 51m 1.7s local time , giving 7h 50 " 17s as the time of first contact .
Captain Tanner afterwards tested that sketch by noting the time before last contact , when the chord appeared of a similar length , which gave an interval of 45s ; so that , taking the mean between the original estimate and its verification , we have 71 50"1 24S'5 as the time of first contact .
While the obscuration was increasing , Captain Tanner , during the few peeps we got at the eclipse , made drawings of the sun 's spots , and sketched the mountains on the moon 's edge , of which there were two plainly visible even wnith my small theodolite .
The darkness increased very slowly till just before totality , when the increase was very rapid and sudden , and a general spontaneous exclamation " Oh !
" from all of us gave Mr. Kero Laxuman the time of beginning of totality , which he recorded as 9h I1 49s .
The eclipse was at that time completely shut out from our view by the clouds-nimbi low down being carried past by the high wind ; we therefore felt at leisure to make our remarks on the degree of the darkness , which we were surprised to find so far from total .
We could easily write , read our writing , and read the seconds of our watches without the aid of artificial light .
We were all lamenting our misfortune in not being able to observe the eclipse , and had given up all hope of witnessing the phenomena we had come so far to see , and Captain Tanner had just noticed the faint reappearance of light in the west , when , contrary to all expectation , and to our intense satisfaction , a sudden opening in the nimbi showed us the eclipse through the cirrocumuli .
We were each at our telescopes in an instant .
I immediately saw through the naked telescope of the small theodolite that red flames were visible , and at once pointed the spectroscope , using the theodolite-telescope as a rest .
Very fortunately I directed the spectroscope with its " refracting edge " tangent to the moon where two red flames were protruding , separated from each other by a small interval ; so that their spectra , which were identical , were extended over the dark background of the moon 's disk , and stood out in m1ost marked and brilliant contrast with the feeble but continuous spectrum of the corona ; and in their spectrum there were the two broad bright bands I have above described .
Most fortunately also these red flames were on that part of the sun which first reappeared ; so that just before or just at emergence there appeared at the very part I was intently observing one brilliant wide spectrum with the green and indigo bands before described , remaining visible for an interval just long enough to enable me to make quite sure of the position of the bands , which were then obliterated by the bright light of the sun .
Of course , observing with the spectroscope alone it would have been impossible to say whether the spectrum with the green and indigo bands appeared just before or just after emergence ; but I think it must have been just before , because Captain Tanner called out when totality was over ; and I immediately remarked that I thought he was rather late , but he was quite confident about the accuracy of his observation .
What struck me as being very remarkable was the circumstance , that though the light of the red flames was to the naked eye so feeble : as to be outshone to extinction by that of the corona , nevertheless , when viewed with the spectroscope , the spectrum of the corona was very weak , and that of the flames remarkably brilliant .
On the first glimpse of the eclipse , before looking through the telescope , the corona appeared so bright , that it gave me the momentary impression ( as it did to Captain Tanner ) of its being an annular eclipse .
We are divided in our estimate of the length of the interval during which we observed the totality .
It appeared to me very short-so much so , that when it was over I was quite taken by surprise to hear that both Captain Tanner and Mr. Kero Laxuman had taken sketches of the flames ; and their sketches , both as to position and structure , were , with one slight exception , remarkably coincident .
From the time of my first pointing the spectroscope to the bursting out of the sun 's light I never once withdrew my eye , though it had been my intention to shift the prism-cap on to the telescope of the theodolite as soon as I should have carefully noted the spectrum of the flames ; but while I was intently gazing on the two bright bands to impress their colour well on my memory , the new spectrum of the moon 's edge appeared , so that I was under the impression that the length of the time of observation was very short .
On the other hand , Captain Tanner , judging from the amount of work he did in the time , estimated it at a minute .
Mr. Kero Laxuman estimated it at 40 or 45 seconds .
Immediately after the totality was over we all three made rough notes of our observations ; and Captain Tanner 's and Mr. Kero Laxuman 's notes agree together wonderfully in their description of the structure of the flames .
The accompanying rough sketch was made by Captain Tanner , who had not the means of making a more finished drawing .
The sketch shows the actual appearance of the eclipse .
It was observed by Captain Tanner wholly inverted , and by Mr. Kero Laxuman ( who used a diagonal eyepiece ) inverted vertically but not laterally .
Captain Tanner and Mr. Kero Laxu .
Capt. Haig 's Spectroscopic Observations man only differed in their position of the small flame c , the former placing it to the right , the latter at a similar distance on the left of the flames b ; but Captain Tanner at once yielded his conviction to that of Mr. Kero Laxuman , which , therefore , we accepted as most likely to be true .
The spectrum of c was not observed by me at all .
I therefore think it could only have appeared simultaneously with the bright spectrum of the moon 's edge .
I so held the spectroscope that I could not see the spectrum of the flame a. The following is an extract from Captain Tanner 's notes , taken almost immediately after the eclipse:- " I at first saw three prominences-one long curved pointed tongue , and two close together , straight but flat-topped , about two-thirds the height of the former .
They were of a rose-madder colour , and were decidedly more like flames than anything else , not only in their general appearance and colour , but by their being composed of smaller tongues of flame parallel ( or nearly so ) to the general axis of the flame , so that they had a streaky appearance and a ragged edge .
At the first glance , when the sun was somewhat obscured by clouds , I thought they were homogeneous and had hard edges ; but this idea was at once dispelled when the clouds cleared off .
The two protuberances , which were close together , were not , as far as I could see , joined by any smaller shots of flame .
I afterwards observed one small protuberance , and marked the position of it in my sketch .
I did not observe that it was streaky , as the others were-perhaps on account of its being so small , and perhaps because I had not sufficient time to examine it properly .
As regards the corona , when we first began to see the eclipse through the clouds , I was under the impression that the eclipse , instead of being total , was only annular , so bright was the corona near the moon 's limb .
I could not detect any irregularities in the structure of the corona , but the light appeared to be gradually shaded off all round .
" Captain Tanner also says , " The most careless observer would notice the streaks of which the flames b were composed ; but it required more careful inspection to determine the streaky nature of the flame a. " The following is from Mr. Kero Laxuman 's notes:- " The protuberance a appeared like a red flaming torch , width 2a minute , height about 2 minutes , colour dark red , lines stretched over a less-red ground .
The direction not perpendicular to the edge of the moon , but making an angle of 600 with it .
Those marked b were broader and almost as high as a , but not pointed .
They appeared to expand a little at the vertex .
They were also streaked by several dark-red lines .
That marked c appeared semicircular , with a breadth of about 2a minute .
The flame a was visible for about 2 minutes after the end of totality ; and had there been no clouds , I think it could have been seen longer .
" Both Captain Tanner and Mr. Kero Laxuman also agreed in describing the form of the red flames b as somewhat similar to hands with fingers slightly separated .
There is a curious coincidence which I may here mention , though I imagine it can only be regarded as purely fortuitous , viz. that the flames were almost exactly opposite the spots on the sun 's disk .
On the afternoon of the 18th , Captain Tanner and I went to Moolwar , eighteen miles south of Beejapoor , where the German astronomers had put up their instruments .
We there learnt that they had only seen the eclipse for less than 5 seconds during totality , and that through an upper stratum of clouds which rendered photometric observations impracticable ; but we were surprised to hear that neither a spectroscope nor a polariscope was attached to either of their equatorial telescopes at the time of visibility , but that both the observerswith these instruments were intent on measuring the heights of the flames .
They determined the normal height of flame a to be 3 minutes ; but as they must have seen it at an earlier phase than Captain Tanner and Mr. Kero Laxuman , it would appear slightly longer to them than to us .
It is very curious how the darkness during totality seems to have differed in degree in different places .
At Beejapoor we were told that down below in the town the darkness was so great that it was not possible to see one 's own hand .
We thought this account might be an exaggeration ; but we afterwards learnt that at Moolwar a gentleman dropped part of an eyepiece of a telescope , and that it was not possible to find it even by placing the eye close to the ground , until after the end of totality .
We have not had time during our continual travelling to compute the elements of the eclipse for Beejapoor for ourselves ; and it might have been waste of time to have done so before we started on our journey , for we were uncertain of our being able to get so far south as Beejapoor ; but I give below a statement of elements for Beejapoor as computed by Mr. Pogson , astronomer at Madras , and published in the 'Times of India , ' and with it the times as observed or estimated by us .
Mr. Pogson 's Our Remarks elements .
elements .
h m.s h mn s First contact ... ... ... ... ... . .
7 50 54 7 50 25 Mean of two estimates .
Beginning of totality ... ... . .
92991 49 Approximate .
End of totality ... ... ... ... ... 97 21 96 59 Actually observed .
Last contact ... ... ... ... ... ... 1028 44 0 28 14 , , , , Angle from 1 first contact ... 1 ?
right .
At vertex .
Approxie .
vertex of ... last contact ... 173 ?
right .
165 ?
right .
p imate There was a difference in our times of last contact .
Mr. Kero Laxuman made it at 1Oh 281 9 ; I made it 10h 28m 14 , and Captain Tanner 10h 28"'17 , .
I was observing with the little theodolite , and distinctly saw the moon 's limb after Mr. Kero Laxuman had called out ; so I attributed his error to the vibration of his telescope caused by the wind .
Capt. Tanner observed , I believe , the last contact ; but , strange to say , the point of the moon which made last contact was a mountain-peak of this shape ; Capt. Tanner would make it thus , dividing the mountain into two hills ; and he says I was a second too soon in my observation , which was of the spherical last contact ; and perhaps he was right , as he had a better telescope than I had .
His observation at 1 Oh 28m 17s was the time of the peak leaving the sun 's limb ; so that he and I differ only by 1 second , as to whether the spherical last contact occurred at 10h 28 " 14s or 10h 28 " 15 " .
I sent a native assistant to Moolwar ( the station selected by the German astronomers ) to take observations with a barometer , and with wet- , dry- , and black-bulb thermometers , continuously for some days before and after the eclipse , but I anticipate no interesting results ( from the rough glance I took at the records on the evening of the 18th ) .
The atmosphere was during the time in a very disturbed state .
Mr. Chambers , of the Bombay Observatory , went to a village called Mongoli , about six miles east of Moolwar , with the intention of observing the eclipse ; but he was disappointed , for it was completely obscured by clouds during the whole of the total phase .
I have not yet heard what success has attended Lieuts .
Herschel and Campbell with the spectroscope and polariscope at Jamkhandi , so that I am quite ignorant of the value of our observations ; but I trust that even should other observers have succeeded in contributing to physics more definite information , ours may at least be valuable as corroborative evidence .
I am , dear Sir , Yours faithfully , C. T. HAIG , Captain Royal Engineers .
General Sabine , R.A. , P.R.S. EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
Fig. 1 represents the total eclipse as it appeared during the last 20 seconds of the total phase .
Fig. 2 .
Red prominences , drawn to larger scale , and showing the streaked structure of a and the radiating thicker lines composing the double prominence at b. ( Note .
A light-red colour showed itself between these streaks , which gave the prominences a greater appearance of solidity .
) c2 , small red prominences as noted by Kero Laxuman ; ce , the same as noted by me ( e appeared just at the end of totality ) .
The height of a was a little over 2 ' , b about 1 ' 40 " ; c may have been 0 ' 20 " .

