1 .
" On the Anatomy and Physiology of Cordylopliora , a contribution to our knowledge of the Tubularian Zoophytes .
" By George James Aliman , M.D. , M.R.I.A. , Professor of Botany in the University of Dublin , &amp;c. Communicated by Professor Edward Forbes , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 31 , 1853 .
The author , after pointing out the necessity of giving greater definiteness to the terminology employed in the description of the true zoophytes , proceeds to the anatomical details of Cordylophora , a genus of Tubulariadte .
He demonstrates that Cordylophora is essentially composed in all its parts of two distinct membranes enclosing a cavity , a structure which is common to all the Hydroida .
For greater precision in description , he finds it necessary to give to these membranes special names , and he therefore employs for the external the name of ectoderm , and for the internal that of endoderm .
Each of these membranes retai ; ns its primitive cellular structure .
In the ectoderm thread-cells are produced in great abundance ; these are formed in the interior of the ectodermal cells by a process of endogenous cellformation , and are afterwards set free by the rupture of the mothercell .
The thread-cells in a quiescent state are minute ovoid capsules , but under the influence of irritation , an internal sac is protruded by a process of evagination ; the surface of the evaginated sac is furnished with a circle of curved spicula , and from its free extremity a delicate and long filament is emitted .
The thread-cells of Cordylophora thus closely resemble the " hastigerous organs " of Hydra .
The polypary is a simple unorganized secretion deposited in layers from the ectoderm .
In the endoderm , the author points out a distinct and well-developed glandular structure composed of true secreting cells , which are themselves produced in the interior of mother-cells , and elaborate a brown granular secretion which he assumes as representing the biliary secretion of the higher animals .
He describes , as a system of special muscles , certain longitudinal fibres , which may be distinctly seen in close connection with the inner surface of the ectoderm .
The tentacula are shown to be continuous tubes communicating with the cavity of the stomach , and thus possess the same essential structure as those of Hydra ; they are formed of a direct continuation of the ectodern of the polype , lined by a similar continuation of the endoderm .
The appearance of transverse septa at regular intervals , which is so very striking in these tentacula , must not be attributed to the existence of true septa .
It is duie to a peculiar condition of the endodermal layer , but the author has not been able to give a satisfactory explanation of it .
Through the whole of the canal which pervades the axis of the stems and branches , a constant though a regular rotatory movement is kept up in the contained fluid ; this movement is not due to the propulsive action of vibratile cilia , and is explained by the author as the effect of the active processes going on in the secreting cells of the endoderm , processes which can scarcely be imagined to take place without causing local alterations in the chemical constitution of the surrounding fluid , and a consequent disturbance in its stability .
The reproductive system of Cordylophora consists of ovoid capsules situated on the ultimate branches at some distance behind the polypes ; some of these capsules contain ova , others spermatozoa ; they are plainly homologous with the ovigerous sacs of the marine Tubulariadce ; they present a very evident , though disguised medusoid structure , having a hollow cylindrical body , whose cavity is continuous with that of the polype-stem , projecting into them below , and representing the proboscidiform stomach of a Medusa , while a system of branched tubes which communicate at their origin with the cavity of the hollow organ , must be viewed as the homologues of the radiating gastro-vascular canals , and the proper walls of the capsule will then represent the disc .
From comparative observations made on other genera of Hydroida , the author maintains the presence of a true medusoid structure in the fixed ovigerous vesicles of all the genera he has examined , and he arrives at the generalization , that for the production of true ova in the hydroid zoophytes , a particular form of zooid is necessary , in which the ordinary polype-structure becomes modified , and presents , instead , a more or less obvious medusoid conformation , Hydra being at present the only genus which appears to offer an exception to this law , though the author believes that the exception is only apparent , and that further observations will enable us to refer the reproductive organization of this zoophyte to the same type with that of Cordylophora and the marine Hydroida .
The author has satisfied himself that the ova-like bodies contained in the capsules of Cordylophora are true ova , and not gemmre ; he has demonstrated in them a distinct germinal vesicle , and has witnessed the phenomenon of yelk-cleavage ; and the paper details the development of the embryo to the period of its escape from the capsule in the form of a free-swimming ciliated animacule , and traces its subsequent progress into the condition of the adult zoophyte .

