A paper was read , " On the Theory of the Elliptic Transcendents .
" By James Ivory , A.M , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Fagnani discovered that the two arcs of the periphery of a given ellipse may be determined in many ways , so that their difference shall be equal to an assignable straight line ?
and proved that any are of a lemniseate , like that of a circle , may be multiplified any number of times , or may be subdivided into any number of equal parts , by finite algebraic equations .
What he had accomplished with respect to the arcs of the lemniscates , which are expressed by a particular elliptic integral , Euler extended to all transcendents of the same class .
Landen showed that the arcs of the hyperbola may be reduced , by a proper transformation , to those of an ellipse .
Lagrange furnished us with a general method for changing an elliptic function into another having a different modulus ; a process which greatly facilitates the numerical calculation of this class of integrals .
Legendre distributed the elliptic functions into distinct classes , and reduced them to a re ?
gular theory , developing many of their properties which were before unknown , and introducing many important additions and improvements in the theory .
Mr. Abel of Christiana happily conceived the idea of expressing the amplitude of an elliptic function in terms of the function itself , which led to the discovery of many new and useful properties .
Mr. Jacobi proved , by a different method , that an elliptic function may be transformed in innumerable ways into another similar function , to which it bears constantly the same proportion .
But his demonstrations require long and complicated calculations ?
and the train of deductions he pursues does not lead naturally to the truths which are proved , nor does it present in a connected view all the conclusions which the theory embraces .
The author of the present paper gives a comprehensive view of the theory in its full extent , and deduces all the connected truths from the same principle .
He finds that the sines or cosines of the amplitudes , used in the transformations , are analogous to the sines or cosines of two circular arcs , one of which is a multiple of the other ; so that the former quantities are changed into the latter when the modulus is supposed to vanish in the alge ?
braic expression .
Hence he is enabled to transfer to the elliptic transcendents the same methods of investigation that succeed in the circle : a procedure which renders the demonstrations considerably shorter , and which removes most of the difficulties , in consequence of the close analogy that subsists between the two cases .

