X. An Account of a Child being taken out of the Abdomen , after having lain there upwards of 16 Years , during which Time the Woman had 4 Children , all born alive ; by Starkey Myddleton M. D. Gentlemen , THE Records of your Society furnish us with several Cases of extra-uterine Conceptions ; one of which I communicated to you March 28 .
1745 .
* neverthless I could not help flattering myself that this Case also might be worthy your Notice .
Read Dec. 17 .
1747 .
IN April 1731 .
Mrs. Ball , without Bishopsgate , perceived ( by the usual Symptoms ) that she was pregnant ; and in October following , being then in the sixth Month of her Pregnancy , she had a Child died in her Lap of Convulsions , the Surprise of which occasioned a great Fluttering within her , attended with a sensible Motion of the Child , which Motion continued , tho ' gradually weaker and weaker , for about~ 6 or 7 Days , after which she did not perceive it to move any more ; but from this time she had constant Pains attending her , which appeared like Labour-Pains .
Her Midwife , for several Days , expected a Miscarriage ; but finding herself disappointed , advised her to apply to Dr. Bamber , whose known Abilities in the several Branches of Physic , joined to his great Experience and Judgment in Llll2 Midwifry , * See Philos. Trans. No. 475 .
p. 336 .
Midwifry , made him unquestionably the most proper Person to be consulted , as the Case appeared so very uncommon in its Circumstances , at the same time that his great Humanity always gave the most free Access to the Poor in their Distresses .
The Doctor ( after a proper Examination ) finding sufficient Indications of a dead Child , ordered her some forcing Medicines ; upon taking which about three times she discharged something , which the Women supposed to be Part of an After-birth , accompanied with a small Quantity of Water : In consequence of this Discharge her Pains ceased , but without any visible Diminution of her Belly .
After some time she again applied herself to the Doctor , who thought it most adviseable to discontinue her Medicines , and leave the Affair entirely to Nature .
In this State she continued for about 20 Months viz. to July 1733 .
which was 2 Years and 3 Months from her first Reckoning , she then again applied herself to Dr. Bamber , acquainting him , that she was not yet delivered of the Child she so long since came to consult him about , and that her Pains were lately returned , and daily increased without any intermission , upon the Doctor 's examining her , he thought it proper to send her home immediately , directing her to promote her Pains , by frequently supping some warm Caudle , &amp;c. by the Use of which her Pains became more regular , and the next Day the Doctor made her a Visit , and was informed she had discharged two Waters , but nothing more : He then carefully examined her again , and plainly felt a Child through the Integuments of the Abdomen , but could not give her any Assistance .
It was about this time that Dr. Bamber first ac quainted me with the Case , and desired that I would attend her as often as Occasion might require , and that I would acquaint him , if any thing like Labour , or other remarkable Alteration should offer .
Accordingly I made her a Visit , and after a proper Examination , was convinced of the Certainty of the Doctor 's Assertion .
Her Pains now began to abate , and she grew tolerably casy ; but about the latter End of January 1733-4 .
she conceived again with Child , and was delivered on the 28th of October following by Dr. Bamber , who sent for me to attend him in her Labour : The Doctor soon delivered her of a fine Boy , and after having brought away the Placenta , he searched for the other Child , which he had before felt through the Integuments of the Abdomen , but found it was lodged in the Cavity of the Abdomen , and beyond the Reach of human Art to relieve her .
This Fact every one then present was made sensible of .
October 22 .
1735 .
I was sent for to her in her Labour , but before my Arrival she was delivered of a Boy ; but I brought away the Placenta , which gave me an Opportunity of examining for the other Child , and found it in the same Situation as sormerly .
October 9 .
1738 .
I was again sent for to her , when in Labour , but she was delivered of a Boy before I arrived .
Upon examining the Womb , and the State of the Abdomen , the Child appeared just as before , without any Alteration .
June 17 , 1741 .
I was again sent for in her Labour , but found her just delivered of a Girl ; and upon examining the Parts , every thing appeared as before .
October 14 .
1747 .
being greatly emaciated by constant Pains , &amp;c. she was admitted a Patient in Guy 's Hospital , where she died the 7th of November following , after having laboured under the Distresses and Uneasiness of carrying a dead Child within her , in a manner loose , in the Cavity of the Abdomen upwards of 16 Years .
The Day after her Death I opened her , in the Presence of Dr. Nesbit , Dr. Nichols , and Dr. Lawrence , when the Uterus , and the several other Contents of the Abdomen appeared ( nearly ) in their natural State , but on the right Side within the Os Ilium a Child presented itself , which was attached to the Ilium and neighbouring Membranes by a Portion of the Peritonaeum , in which the Fimbria and Part of the right Fallopian Tube seemed to lose itself .
The Child seemed no-ways putrid ; but the Integuments were become so callous , and changed from their natural State , that the whole seemed to resemble a cartilaginous Mass , without Form or Distinction : The Legs indeed were distinguishable , though they were much wasted and distorted .
Upon opening the callous Integuments of the Head and Face of the Child , the Bones appeared perfectly formed , with a few Spots of tophous Concretions on them .
This Account may serve to convince those who are of Opinion that Boys are conceived on the right Side , and the Girls on the left ; as this Woman man had three Boys , and one Girl , after the Fallopian Tube on the right Side had lost its Action .
I am , Gentlemen , With great Respect , Your most obedient and Most humble Servant , Starkey Myddleton .
Decem .
17 .
1747 .

