Num. 14 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Munday , July 2 .
1666 .
The Contents .
An Account of a New kind of Baroscope , which may be called Statical ; and of some Advantages and Conveniences it hath above the Mercurial ; communicated by Mr. Boyle .
The Particular Observations of the Planet Mars , formerly intimated to have been made by Mr. Hook in February and March last .
Some Observations , made in Italy , confirming the former ; and withal fixing the Period of the said Planet 's Revolution .
Observations , lately made at London , of the Planet Jupiter : as also of Saturn .
A Relation of a sad Effect of Thunder and Lightning .
An Account of some Books , lately publish't ; videl .
The Relations of divers Curious Voyages , by Mons. Thevenot : A Discourse about the Cause of the Inundation of the Nile , by Mons. de la Chambre ; hoth French : De Principiis &amp; Ratiocinatione Geometrarum , Contra Fastum Professorum Geometriae , by Mr. Hobbes : King Salomons Portraiture of Old Age , by J. Smith , M. D. An Account Of a New kind of Baroscope , which may be called Statical ; and of some Advantages and Conveniences it hath above the Mercurial : Communicated , some while since , by the Honourable Robert Boyle .
AS for the New kind of Baroscopes , which , not long ago , *I intimated to you , that my *See Num. II.p .
haste would not permit me to give 185 .
Phil. Transyou an account off ; since your Letactions .
ters acquaint me , that you still design a Communicating to the Curious as much Information , as may be , in reference to Baroscopes ; I shall venture to send you some Account of what I did but name ( in my former Letter ) to you .
Though by a Passage , you may meet with in the 19th and 20th Pages of my Thermometrical Experiments and Thoughts , you may find , that I did some years ago think upon this New kind of Baroscope ; yet the Changes of the Atmosphere 's Weight not happening to be then such , as I wished , and being unwilling to deprive my self of all other use of the exactest Balance * , that I ( or perhaps any man ) ever had , I confess to you , that successive avocations put this attempt for two or three years out of my thoughts ; till afterwards returning to a place , where I chanced to find two or three pairs of Scales , I had left there , the sight of them brought it into my mind ; and though I were then unable to procure exacter , yet my desire to make the Experiment some amends for so long a neglect , put me upon considering , that if I provided a Glass-buble , more than ordinary large and light , even such Balances , as those , might in some measure perform , what I had tried with the strangely nice ones above-mention 'd .
~ The Scales here meant were before competent Eyewitnesses made to turn manifestly with the thousandth part of a grain .
I caused then to be blown at the Flame of a Lamp some Glass-bubles as large , thin and light , as I could then procure , and choosing among them one , that seemed the least unfit for my turn , I counterpoised it in a pair of Scales , that would loose their AEquilibrium with about the 30th part of a Grain , and were suspended at a Frame .
I placed both the Balance and the Frame by a good Baroscope , from whence I might learn the present weight of the Atmosphere .
Then leaving these Instruments together ; though the Scales , being no nicer than I have expressed , were not able to show me all the Variations of the Air 's weight , that appeared in the Mercurial Baroscope , yet they did what I expected , by showing me variations no greater , than altered the height of Quicksilver half a quarter of an Inch , and perhaps much smaller , than those : Nor did I doubt , that , if I had had either tender Scales , or the means of supplying the Experiment with convenient accommodations , I should have discerned scerned far smaller Alterations of the Weight of the Air , since I had the pleasure to see the Buble sometimes in an aequilibrium with the counterpoise ; sometimes , when the Atmosphere was high , preponderate so manifestly , that the Scales being gently stirred , the Cock would play altogether on that side , at which the Buble was hung ; and at other times ( when the Air was heavier ) that , which was at the first but the Counterpoise , would preponderate , and , upon the motion of the Balance , make the Cock vibrate altogether on its side .
And this would continue sometimes many days together , if the Air so long retained the same measure of gravity ; and then ( upon other changes)the Buble would regain an aequilibrium , or a preponderance ; so that I had oftentimes the satisfaction , by looking first upon the Statical Baroscope ( as for distinctions sake it may be called ) to foretell , whether in the Mercurial Baroscope the Liquor were high or low .
Which Observations though they hold as well in Winter , and several times in Summer ( for I was often absent during that season ) as the Spring , yet the frequency of their Vicissitudes ( which perhaps was but accidental ) made them more pleasant in the latter of these seasons .
So that , the matter of Fact having been made out by variety of repeated Observations , and by sometimes comparing several of those new Baroscopes together , I shall add some of those Notes about this Instrument , which readily occur to my memory , reserving the rest till another opportunity .
And First , if the ground , on which I went in framing this Baroscope , be demanded , the answer in short may be ; I. That , though the Glass-buble , and the 4Glass-counterpoise , at the time of their first being weighed , be in the Air , wherein they both are weighed , exactly of the same weight ; yet they are nothing near of the same bulk ; the Buble , by reason of its capacious cavity ( which contains nothing but Air , or something that weighs less than Air ) being perhaps a hundred or two hundred times ( for I have not convenience to measure them ) bigger than the Metalline counterpoise .
2 .
That according to a Hydrostatical Law ( which you know I have lately had occasion to make out ) If two Bodies of equal gravity , but unequal bulk come to be weighed in another Medium , they will be no longer equiponderant ; but if the new Medium be heavier , the greater Body , as being lighter in Specie , will loose more of its weight , than the lesser and more compact ; but if the new Medium be lighter than the first , then the bigger Body will outweigh the lesser : And this disparity , arising from the change of Medium 's , will be so much the greater , by how mnch the greater inequality of bulk there is between the Bodies formerly equiponderant .
3 .
That , laying these two together , I considered , that'twould be all one , as to the effect to be produced , whether the Bodies were weighed in Medium 's of differing gravity , or in the same Medium , in case its ( specific ) gravity were considerably altered : And consequently , that since it appeared by the Baroscope , that the weight of the Air was sometimes heavier , and sometimes lighter , the alterations of it , in point of gravity , from the weight , it was off at first counterpoising of the Buble of it , would unequally affect so large and hollow a Body , as the Buble , and so small and dense a one , as a Metallin weight : And when the Air by an increase of gravity should become a heavier Medium , than before , it would buoy up the Glass more than the Counterpoise ; and if it grew lighter , than it was at first , would suffer the former to preponderate : ( The Illustrations and Proof can scarce be added in few words ; but , if it be desired , I may , God permitting , send you them at my next leisure : ) And though our English Air be about a thousand times lighter , than water , the difference in weight of so little Air , as i ; but equal in bulk to a Buble , seemed to give small hopes , that it would be sensible upon a Balance ; yet , by making the Buble very large and light , I supposed and found the Event , I have already related .
Secondly , The hermetically sealed Glass-buble , I employed , was of the bigness of a somewhat large Orange , and weighed about I. drachme and 10 .
grains .
But I thought it very possible , if I had been better furnish't with conveniences ( wherein I afterwards found , I was not mistaken ) to make ( among many , that might be expected to miscarry ) some , that might be preferable to this , either for capacity or lightness , or both ; especially if care be taken , that they be not sealed up , whilst they are too hot .
For , though one would think , that it were advantageous tagious to rarify and drive ont the Air as much as is possible , because in such sealed Bubles the Air it self ( as I have elsewhere shown ) has a weight ; yet this advantage countervails not the inconvenience of being obliged to increase the weight of the Glass , which when it includes highly rarisied Air , if it be not somewhat strong , will be broken by the pressure of the External Air , as I have sufficiently tried .
Thirdly , I would have tried , whether the Dryness and Moisture of the Air would in any measure have altered the weight of the Buble , as well as the Variation of Gravity produced in the Atmosphere by other causes ; but the extraordinarily constant absence of Fogs , kept me from making Observations of this kind ; save that one morning early , being told of a mist , I sent to see ( being my self in bed ) whether it made the Air so heavy as to buoy up the Buble ; but did not learn , that that mist had any sensible operation on it .
Fourthly , By reason of the difficulties and casualties , that may happen about the procuring and preserving such large and light Bubles , as I have been lately mentioning ; it may in some cases prove a convenience to be informed , That I have sometimes , instead of one sufficiently large Buble , made use of two , that were smaller .
And , though a single Buble of competent bigness be much preferable , by reason that a far less quantity and weight of Glass is requisite to comprise an equal capacity , when the Glass is blown into a single Buble , than when it is divided into two ; yet I found , that the employing of two instead of one , did not so ill answer my exspectations , but that they may for a need serve the turn instead of the other ; than which they are more easier to be procured : And if the Balance be strong enough to bear so much Glass , without being injured : by employing two or a greater number of large Bubles , the effect may be more conspicuous , than if only a single Buble ( though a very good one ) were employed .
This instrument may be much improved by divers Accommodations .
As First , There may be sitted to the Ansa ( or Checks of the Balance ) an Arch ( of a Circle ) divided into 15 .
or 20 .
deg. ( more or less , according to the goodness of the Balance ) that the Cock resting over against these Divisions , may readily .
and without Calculation show the quantity of the Angle , by which , when the scales propend either way , the Cock declines from the Perpendicular , and the beam from its Horizontall parallelism .
Secondly , Those , that will be so curious , may , instead of the Ordinary Counterpoise ( of Brass ) employ one of Gold , or at least of Lead , whereof the latter being of equal weight with Brass , is much less in Bulk , and the former amounts not to half its bigness .
Thirdly , These parts of the Balance , that may be made of Copper or Brass , without any prejudice to the exactness , will , by being made of one of those Metals , be less subject , than Steel , ( which yet , if well hardned and polished , may last good a great while ) to rust with long standing .
Fourthly , Instead of the scales , the Buble may be hung at one end of the Beam , and only a Counterpoise to it at the other , that the Beam may not be burdened with unnecessary weight .
Fifthly , The whole instrument , if placed in a small Frame , like a square Lanthorn with Glass-windows , and a hole at the top for the Commerce of the internal and external Air , will be more free from dust , and irregular agitations ; to the latter of which , it will otherwise be sometimes incident .
Sixthly , This instrument being accommodated with a light Wheel and an Index ( such as have been applied by the excellent Dr. Cbr .
Wren to open Weather glasses , and by the ingenious Mr. Hook to Baroscopes ) may be made to show much more minute variations , than otherwise .
Seventhly , And the length of the Beam , and exquisitness of the Balance , may easily , without any of the foregoing helps ( and much more with them ) make the instrument far exacter , than any of those , I was reduced to employ .
And to these Accommodations divers others may be suggested by a farther consideration of the nature of the thing , and a longer practice .
Though in some respects this statical Baroscope be inferior to the Mercurial ; yet in others it has its own advantages and conveniences above it .
And I. It confirms ad oculum our former Doctrine , that the falling and rising of the Mercury depends upon the varying weight of the Atmosphere ; since in this Baroscope it cannot be pretended , that a Fuga vacui , or a Funiculus , is the cause of the changes , we observe .
2 .
It shows , that not only the Air has weight , but a more considerable one , than some Learned men , who will allow me to have proved , it has some weight , will admit ; since even the variation of weight in so small a quantity of Air , as is but equal in bulk to an Orange , is manifestly discoverable upon such Balances , as are none of the nicest .
3 .
This Statical Baroscope will oftentimes be more parable , than the other : For many will find it more easy , to procure a good pair of Gold-scales , and a Buble or two , than a long Cane feal 'd , a quantity of Quick-silver , and all the other requisits of the Mercurial Baroscope ; especially if we comprise the trouble and skill , that is requisite to free the deserted part of the Tube from Air .
4 ; And whereas the difficulty of removing the Mercurial Instrument has kept men from so much as attempting to do it , even to neighbouring places ; the Essential parts of the Scale-Baroscope ( for the Frame is none of them ) may very easily in a little room be carried , whither one will , without the hazard of being spoiled or injured .
5 .
There is not in Statical Baroscopes , as in the other , a danger of uncertainty , as to the goodness of the Instruments , by reason , that in these the Air is , in some more , and in some less perfectly excluded ; whereas in those , that consideration has no place .
( And by the way , I have sometimes , upon this account , been able to discover by our new Baroscope , that an esteemed Mercurial one , to which I compared it , was not well freed from Air .
) 6 .
It being , as I formerly intimated , very possible to discover Hydrostatically , both the bigness of the Buble , and the Contents of the cavity , and the weight and dimensions of the Glassy substance ( which together with the included Air make up the Buble , ) much may be discovered by this Instrument , as to the Weight of the Air , absolute or respective .
For , when the Quick-silver in the Mercurial Baroscope is either very high , or very low , or at a middle station between its greatest and least height , bringing the Scale-Barometer to an Exact AEquilibrium ; ( I with very minute divisions of a Grain , ) you may , by watchfully observing , when the Mercury is risen or fallen just an inch , or a fourth , or half an inch &amp;c. and putting in the like minute divisions of a Grain to the lighter Scale , till you have again brought the Balance to an exquisite AEquilibrium ; you may , I say , determine , What known weight in the Statical Baroscope answers such determinate Altitudes of the ascending and descending Quick ~ silver in the Mercurial .
And if the Balance be accommodated with a divided Arch , or a Wheel and Index , these Observations will assist you for the future to determine readily , by seeing the inclination of the Cock or the degree marked by the Index , what pollency the Buble hath , by the change of the Atmospheres weight , acquired or lost .
Some Observations of this nature I watchfully made , sometimes putting in a 64 th .
sometimes a 32 th sometimes a 16 th and sometimes heavier parts of a Grain , to the lighter Scale .
But one , that knew not , for what uses those little papers were , coming to a window , where my Baroscopes stood , so unluckily shook them out of the Scales , and confounded them , that he robbed me of the opportunity of making the nice Observations I intended , though I had the satisfaction of seeing , that they were to be made .
7 .
By this Statical Instrument we may be assisted to compare the Mercurial Baroscopes of several places ( though never so distant ) and to make some Estimates of the Gravities of the Air therein .
As if , for instance , I have found by Observation , that the Buble , I employ , ( and one may have divers Bubles of several sizes , that the one may repair any mischance , that may happen to another ) weighed just a Drachme , when the Mercurial Cylinder was at the height of 291/ 2 inches ( which in some places I have found a moderate altitude ; ) and that the Addition of the 16 th part of a gr. is requisite to keep the Buble in an AEquilibrium , when the Mercury is risen an 8 th , or any determinate part of an inch above the former station : When I come to another place , where there is a Mercurial Barometer , as well freed from Air as mine ( for that must be supposed ) if taking out my Scale instrument , it appear to weigh precisely a Drachme , and the Mercury in the Baroscope there stand at just 291/ 2 inches , we may conclude the Gravity of the Atmosphere not to be sensibly unequal in both those two places , though very distant .
And though there be no Baroscope there , yet if there be an additional weight , as for instance , the 16th part of a Grain requisite to be added to the Buble , to bring the scales to an AEquilibrium , it will appear that the Air at this second place is , at that time so much heavier , than the Air of the former place was , when the Mercury stood at 291/ 2 inches .
But in making such comparisons , we must not forget to consider the Situation of the several places , if we mean to make Estimates not only of the weight of the Atmosphere , but of the weight and density of the Air .
For , though the Scales wilshew(as has been said ) whether there be a difference of weight in the Atmosphere at the two places ; yet , if one of them be in a Vale or bottom , and the other on the top or some elevated part of a Hill , it is not to be expected , that the Atmosphere , in this latter place , should gravitate as much , as the Atmosphere in the former , on which a longer Pillar of Air does lean or weigh .
And the mention , I have made of the differing Situation of Places , puts me in mind of something , that may prove another use of our Statical Baroscope , and which I had thoughts of making trial off , but was Accidentally hindred from the opportunity of doing it .
Namely , that by exactly poysing the Buble at the foot of a high Steeple or Hill , and carrying it in its close Frame to the top , one may , by the weight requisite to be added to Counterpoise there to bring the Beam to its Horizontal position , observe the difference of the weight of the Air at the bottom , and at the top ; and , in case the Hill be high enough , at some intermediate Stations .
But how far this may assist men , to estimate the Absolute or Comparative height of Mountains , and other elevated Places ; and what other uses the Instrument may be put to , when it is duly improved ; and the Cautions , that may be requisite in the several cases , that shall be proposed , I must leave to more leisure , and farther

