II .
" Notes of Researches on the Acids of the Lactic Series .
No. II .
Action of Zinc upon a Mixture of Iodide of Ethyl and Oxalate of Methyl .
" By EDWARD FILANKLAND , F.R.S. , and B. F. DUPPA , Esq. Received December 20 , 1864 .
In our former communication * on the action of zinc upon a mixture of iodide and oxalate of methyl , we described a process by which the use of the zinc-compounds of the alcohol radicals may be dispensed with in the production of the series of acids which we are now investigating .
We then described this process as being conducted at a temperature of 700 to I 00 ' Cent. for twenty-four hours , until the mixture had solidified to a yellowish gum-like mass , which on distillation yielded a mixture of water , alcohol , and the ether of the new acid .
Subsequenitly we have found it more advantageous to continue the operation for a much longer time at a lower temperature , thereby obtaining a crvstalline instead of a gum-like product , the former giving a much better result as regards the production of ether .
In the reaction which forms the subject of the present Note , we have proceeded in the following manner .
Two atoms of iodide of ethyl were mixed with one of oxalate of methyl and placed in a capacious flask , with zinc in sufficient quantity to be barely covered by the ethereal mixture .
We prefer to use zinc which has been employed in a previous operation , as we find it to act not only with greater rapidity , but also at a much lower temperature .
The time required for the completion of an operation is about ninety-six hours at a temperature of from 30 ?
to 50 ?
Cent. During the first eighteen or twelnty hours no apparent action takes place , the liquid remaining perfectly limpid , and the zinc apparently untouched ; but after this period a straw-coloured tint gradually makes its appearanice and slowly increases in intensity , until the liquid solidifies to a mass of crystals which scarcely fuse at 50 ?
Cent. The operation may now be considered as ended , although a considerable quantity of the mixed ethers is still unacted upon .
Water being now added by slow degrees until it equals three times the volume of the crystalline mass , a copious effervescence takes place ; oxalate and oxide of zinc are formed in abundalice , whilst , on the application of heat , alcohol , accompanied by a considerable quantity of an ethereal body , distils over along with the iodide of ethyl that has not been acted upon .
The addition of water to the distillate effects an approximate separation of the ethereal from the alcoholic portion ; the former is them decanted and distilled for the purpose of separating alcohol and iodide of ethyl .
When the temperature of ebullition rises to 1000 Cent. , the liquid left in the retort is placed over chloride of calcium for twelve hours , after which it is again submitted to distillation , when its boiling-point almost immediately rises to 165 ?
Cent. ( bar .
29,85 in .
) , at which temperature the whole of the remaining liquid passes over .
Submitted to analysis , this liquid yielded results closely corresponding to the formula C7 1114 03 .
The decomposition of this ether by baryta , described below , proves it to be the methylic ether of an acid of the same composition as leucic acid , with which also it agrees in its fusing-point .
The composition of this ether may therefore be thus expressed:(civ A Oil c iv fO j VOCJ 3 Leucate of methyl is a colourless , transparent , and tolerably mobile liquid , possessing a peculiar ethereal odour only remotely resembling leucate of ethyl .
It is very sparingly soluble in water , but readily soluble in alcohol or ether .
Its specific gravity is *9896 at 160.5 C. ; it boils at 165 ' and distils unchanged .
A determination of its vapour-density gave the number 4-84 , the above formula corresponding to two volumes of vapour ( 12 0=2 vols .
) requires the ntumber 5 03 .
Treated with caustic alkaline bases this ether is readily decomposed , even in the cold , yielding methylic alcohol and a leucate of the base .
A quantity of it was thus decomposed with solution of baryta , the excess of the base being afterwards removed .
It yielded on evaporation a crystalline mass very soluble in water , alcohol , and ether , and which , on analysis , yielded results closely corresponlding with those calculated from the formula of leucate of baryta .
civ { ( C2H C{ g } Ba When this baryta-salt in aqueous solution is decomposed with the exact amount of sulphuric acid necessary , the liquid filtered off from the sulphate of baryta , and evaporated in vacuo , the acid crystallizes magnificently .
Professor W. H. Miller has kindly undertaken the determination of the angles of these crystals .
They are readily soluble in ether , alcohol , and water .
The acid is greasy to the touch , and nearly inodorous , It sublimnes readily at 500 C. , and slowly even at common temperatures , a small quantity of the acid left on a watch-glass gradually disappearing , though in other respects it is permanent when exposed to the air .
It fuses at 74 ?
` 5 C. Numerous analyses furnished the numbers required by the formula iC 2H5 OH { civ{ 01 C{ OH Leucate of silver was made by adding oxide of silver to a hot solution of the acid .
After filtration and evaporation in vacuto , it crystallizes in brilliant silky fibres adhering closely to the capsule .
These are anihydrous , and are scarcely discoloured by prolonged exposure to a temperature of 100 ?
C. They yielded on analysis numbers closely corresponding with those calculated from the formula f c211H { ClV S CII , C { 8 Ag Although this acid possesses the same percentage composition , atomic weight , and fusing-point as the leucic acid obtained by the action of zincethyl upon oxalic ether , yet it does not appear to be identical with that acid .
The silver-salt of the latter crystallizes in brilliant needles radiating from centres standing up freely from the capsule , and containing half an atom of water which is not expelled , at 100 ?
C. This salt also further differs from that above described by becoming rapidly discoloured when exposed to the heat of a steam-bath .
We are at present engaged with a rigorous comparison of the properties of these and other similarly related acids of the lactic series .

