On Muscular Irritability after Systemic Death .
May 29 , 1873 .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Croonian Lecture , " On Muscular Irritability after Systemic Death , " was delivered by Benjamin Ward Richardson , M.D. , E.R.S. ( Abstract .
) The Lecturer commenced by referring to the labours of Dr. Croone , the Physician with whose name this lecture is connected .
Croone was distinguished as one of the founders and as first Registrar of the Royal Society , and his scientific work included important contributions to the subject of muscular motion .
Immediately preceding Croone , Nicholas Stenon , of Copenhagen ( first an anatomist and afterwards Bishop of Heliopolis , a man whom Haller has described as vir , Candidas , innocuus et magnus inventor , and whom the Grand Duke of Tuscany buried in the tomb of his Royal house ) , had made known the fact that the contractile portion of muscle is resident in the carneous or fleshy part of the muscle , as distinguished from the fibrous part .
This discovery , seized by Croone , led him to observe that the fleshy part of muscle is made up of fibres , and that each fibre possesses a distinct power of contraction ; so that , to use his own words , " the force of the whole muscle is but an aggregation of each particular fibre .
" Upon this observation , perfectly original at the time it was announced , Croone advanced an hypothesis as to the cause of muscular motion .
He showed that for muscular contraction it was necessary that the arteries should supply blood to the fleshy muscular fibres\#151 ; that the blood should pervade the fibres\#151 ; that in its course , forced on by the stroke of the heart , it should mix with another liquor within the muscles , and diffuse into the minute vesicles of which each muscular fibre is ultimately composed .
To complete the mechanism for motion , he held that the nervous filaments which ramify into each muscle supply a refined fluid , much more active than the muscular fluid , by which the activity of the muscle is called into play .
The lecturer next briefly traced the various hypotheses that have been advanced to explain muscular motion since the time when Croone made his original observations , the purport of the argument being that , although great advances have been made in the study of structure , and one very great advance in the study of function , viz. by Haller in his separation of the respective forces of nerve and muscle , the precise question of the cause of muscular motion remains much in the same doubt as Croone left it .
Respecting the various theories and hypotheses since the time of Dr. B. Ward Richardson Muscular [ May 29 , Croone , the author had nothing to say in detail ; the object of his lecture was to put forward certain facts he had learned on the phenomenon of muscular irritability after systemic death\#151 ; that muscular irritability which remains sometimes for a brief , at other times for a long period after all the outward manifestations of life have ceased , and when , to the common apprehension , the animal tissues are dead .
He included in the same study certain examples in which muscular irritability has for a time ceased , but has become redeveloped under new conditions .
He thus included the study of those states which favour the continuance of irritability or which destroy it , and those conditions which suspend it but do not destroy it .
By this method of research the author thinks we may proceed backwards towards living irritability , and may determine upon what that depends with more facility than by experimenting on the phenomena of irritability in the living animal .
He imagines that if he knew nothing of the construction of a watch , or why for a certain time a watch maintains its motion , and if he had nobody to teach him these things , he might be better able to arrive at the fact he wanted by trying to set the motionless watch into motion than by interfering with it while it is in motion .
The record of experimental endeavour carried out with the design above explained included a review of the work of twenty-five years .
The subjects brought under consideration were arranged as follows : ( 1 ) The effect of cold on muscular irritability after systemic death .
( 2 ) The effect of motor forces , mechanical , calorific , electrical .
( 3 ) The effect of abstracting and supplying blood .
( 4 ) The effect of certain chemical agents , inorganic and organic .
Effect of Cold .
Previous to the time of John Hunter it was supposed that cold was the most effective agent for destroying muscular irritability , and to this day the impression is commonly maintained ; so that the sensation of cold in a motionless animal is accepted as the surest evidence of death .
Hunter was the first to show by direct experiment that this was an error , and that cold suspends irritability without destroying it .
The original experiment of Hunter illustrative of this position w as heie described .
The effects of cold employed in various ways in the authors experimental researches were now detailed systematically .
The effect of cold in suspending the muscular irritability of fish , reptiles , and frogs was first described .
On all these animals it was shown that cold cou t be made to suspend without destroying the muscular irritability or a long period of time , and that in fish ( carp , on which the author a made the greatest number of experiments ) the restoration of iirita n ) could be perfected to the extent of the restoration of the living function .
Passing to warm-blooded animals , the author showed that in the process of cooling in every animal that has been suddenly deprived of life v it i 1873 .
] Irritability after Systemic Death .
out mechanical injury there is a period in the process of cooling when general muscular irritability may be made manifest .
He demonstrates this fact by the simple experiment of throwing a current of water heated to 115 ' Fahr. over the arterial system of the recently dead animal .
If the surrounding temperature be high at the time of this experiment , the operation should be performed within a few minutes after death ; but if the temperature be below freezing-point , it may be delayed for a long period .
In one experiment the author reproduced active muscular contraction in an animal that had lain dead and exposed to cold 6 degrees below freezing-point for a period of three hours .
In this case the muscles generally remained irritable for seven minutes after the injection of the heated water , while in the muscles of the limbs , by repeating the injection at intervals , the irritability was maintained for two hours .
The author drew a comparison between these experimental results and the phenomena of muscular irritability that have been observed in the human subject after death by cholera .
A short description of the muscular movements occurring sometimes after death from cholera was introduced .
The movements were not conscious , nor were they promoted by electrical excitation j but the flexors and extensors belonging to each part in which there is movement are alternately contracted and relaxed as if from some internal influence .
The same observations apply to the phenomena of contraction and relaxation in the muscles of animals that have been held in abeyance by cold and have been recalled into action by the injection of heated fluids .
The influence of cold in suspending without destroying muscular irritability was further evidenced by the experiment of subjecting some young animals to death , by the process of drowning them in ice-cold water .
It was shown that in the kitten the muscular irritability may be restored to the complete reestablishment of life after a period of two hours of apparent systemic death , although the muscles when the animal is first removed from the water may give no response to the galvanic current .
This same continuance of irritability after apparent systemic death by drowning in ice-cold water has been observed in the human subject , not in so determinate , but in an approximated degree .
An instance was adduced in which a youth who had been deeply immersed for twelve minutes in ice-cold water retained muscular irritability so perfectly that he recovered , regained consciousness , and lived for a period of seven hours .
Commenting on the method of irritability , the author showed that a certain period of time is required before the irritability is raised from a mere passive condition , in which it responds only to external stimuli , into the condition necessary for independent active contractility .
The change of condition from the passive to the active state , when it occurs , is so sudden as to seem instantaneous at first , then it is slowly repeated .
This rule holds good in respect to voluntary muscles and involuntary .
It is specially true in regard to the heart , which organ , the author states , tol .
xxi .
2 p 042 Dr. B. Ward Richardson on Muscular [ May 29 , may perform its office under two distinct degrees of tension or pressure\#151 ; a low tension , in which the organ itself is reduced in size and mores almost insensibly ; and a full tension , in which it is of larger size and moves with a sufficient power to impel the blood so as to overcome the arterial elasticity and the capillary resistance .
M Another fact bearing on this subject is , that in rapid decline of muscular irritability- the muscles most concerned in the support of the organic functions , namely the heart and the muscles of respiration , are the last to yield up their spontaneous power ; but when they have lost their power , they are the last to regain it .
To this rule there is one exception , viz. in the muscular fibre of the right auricle of the heart .
The author then explained that the degree of cold which suspends irritability is fixed within certain measures of degree , from 38 ' to 28 ' P. being the most favourable degrees of cold .
Above a temperature of 38 ' Pahr .
the muscles in a little time pass into permanent rigidity , rigor mortis .
Below 28 ' the muscles , if the effect of the cold be extended to their whole structure , pass into some new molecular condition from which they do not return into active life , at least they do not by means of any process of recovery of which we are at present conversant .
Effect of Motor Forces .
Cold , by the inertia it induces , suspends , under certain conditions , but does not destroy , muscular irritability .
The motor forces , on the contrary , quicken the irritability for a brief period , and then completely destroy it .
A method may perhaps be discovered for overcoming the effects of these forces , but at present it is not known .
The mode in which j* motor forces act in arresting irritability is by the induction of a cdj\#174 ; tractile state , which , once established , remains permanent .
It should be remarked , however , that the forces respectively named mec anicw calorific , electrical , act with different degrees of intensity , perhaps because we cannot as yet apply them , in this particular research , wi eT\#174 ; measures of intensity .
The author here related his expenmen s on HI effect of the different forces upon the right auricle of the heart , and reported as the result of his observations that , while al ^ e orfes .
^ ultimately alike in producing permanent contraction , the mechanical'e\gt ; -citation is much slower than the calorific ; while e ectrica exci a appears to hold an intermediate place , as if it were a com ma io _ mere mechanical motion with an increased temperature .
^ ec n5a e may nevertheless be increased so as to rival heat in its imme ia e j\#187 ; on contraction .
- , .
, 0i , nrT1 The author here traced out the results of a series of shor irritations of muscle with a needle-point , and compare em wi , effect of asjblow , showing that in each case rigidity o ows , u slower in development when it is excited by the needle .
^ ^ The influence of heat in destroying irritability , by its power 1873 .
] Irritability after Systemic Death .
843 dacing permanent contraction , was described from experiments bearing on the relation of temperature to the muscular contraction of different animals\#151 ; frogs , pigeons , and rabbits .
It was shown that a relative rise in temperature in each class , a rise averaging 12 degrees in Fahr. scale , from the natural temperature of the animal is efficient for producing permanent rigidity , the cause of the ultimate rigidity being coagulation of the coagulable muscular fluid .
The effect of electrical excitation is in the same direction , but is varied according to the mode in which the excitation is performed .
Discharge from the Leyden jar produces contraction , which is permanent or intermittent in accordance with the mass of the muscle and the intensity of the discharge .
This fact was elucidated by reference to a series of experiments with a Leyden battery , placed in cascade , and the effect produced by the discharge from 96 feet of surface upon animals of different sizes and weights , from sheep down to pigeons , as well as on sections of the bodies of the same animals immediately after death .
The experimental facts demonstrated that with an efficient discharge the whole muscular system of a small animal could be fixed instantly in the rigidity of death , and that the precise position of the animal at the period immediately preceding death was retained with such perfection , so sudden was the change , that nothing but physical examination by the hand could bring to the mind the fact that the animal had passed from life into death .
But the same shock passed through a sheep weighing 54 pounds produced only a temporary contraction of muscle , and required several repetitions before the rigidity was rendered permanent .
By employing discharges of lower tension it was found that muscles , or special tracts of muscles , in the same animal , immediately after its death , could be made rigid quickly or slowly by variation of the intensity of the discharge .
The effect of the intermittent electro-magnetic current was next brought forward , and was shown to resemble closely that of the simple electrical discharge from the Leyden phial .
Intensified it induces instant and permanent contraction ; and if it be repeated , even with but sufficient force as to call forth feeble contraction , it destroys the irrita-bility , cateris paribus , more quickly than if the muscle had been left at rest .
Parenthetically , the lecturer dwelt here on the common practice after sudden death of endeavouring to excite the action of the enfeebled heart by passing through it an electrical current .
Some practitioners , said the author , have gone so far as to introduce a needle into the heart itself , and to make the needle act as one of the conductors from a battery .
Such experimentalists , before they undertake this operation on the human subject , should at least observe the effect of the agency they are employing on the exposed heart of an inferior animal recently and suddenly killed by drowning or by a narcotic vapour .
They would learn 344 Dr. B. Ward Richardson on Muscular [ May 29 , then with what infinite facility the muscular irritability of the heart , in all its parts , is excited , for a moment only , to be permanently destroyed .
They would learn that if blood be not passing through the muscular structure concurrently with the exciting agent , they could not more effectually arrest function than , by the very method they have adopted to sustain it .
The influence of the continuous current on muscular irritability was introduced by the author , together with a special reference to the first experiments of Aldini on the bodies of malefactors who had been recently executed ; and it was shown from Aldini 's most noted experiment how largely the phenomena of motion he induced in a dead man , and the recital of which caused so much sensation in the year 1803 , was due , not to the galvanism , but to the circumstance that the dead body had been exposed for the hour after death , and before the experiments commenced , to the action of cold two degrees below freezing-point .
On the whole the continuous current acts on muscular fibre after the manner of heat .
If the muscle , recently dead , be exposed to cold , the current , when sufficient , restores for a limited period the irritability , and finally destroys it by inducing persistent contraction ; if the muscle , recently dead , be left at its natural temperature , the current simply shortens the period of irritability by quickening contraction .
Abstraction and Supply of Blood .
Under this head the author first considered the effect of abstraction of blood from the living muscular fibre .
He showed that when the flow of blood was very rapid , there was invariably a given period of muscular excitation .
In sheep killed in the slaughterhouse he found that this muscular excitement occurred at the time when the proportion of blood removed from the animal was equivalent to about the 320th part of the weight of the animal .
The increased irritability passes rapidly into , general convulsion without consciousness , and , as a rule , ceases for a time with a temporary cessation of further loss of blood .
After this that irritability remains , if the bleeding be arrested altogether , and can ba called into action by any external stimulus , although it is rarely SP'**| taneously manifested when the vessels are left divided and open .
Afte\#174 ; an interval of one or two minutes there is a recurrence of loss of blood , followed by a muscular excitement which marks the moment of systemij death .
The breathing and circulation cease , but the voluntary muse e|j retain their , irritability for several minutes , until they undergo^ P\#174 ; *S manent contraction ; indeed they retain their irritability under the in uj ence of cold and lose it under the influence of mechanical motion , ea , or electricity as markedly as when death has been produced wit ou abstraction of blood .
* Jfl The fact of the two stages of exalted muscular irritability urmg abstraction of blood , is important , as indicating the two different tensiowj 1873 .
] Irritability after Systemic .
345 of muscle to which reference has already been made .
The first convulsive action , convulsion of syncope , marks a definite period , when the tension of the heart and therewith of the whole vascular system is reduced to a degree of action well defined and attended with definite phenomena .
In this stage the force of the heart is sufficient to move the unconscious muscles , and gradually , if blood be resupplied , to lift them again into the condition for the sudden development of active conscious life .
The second excitement , convulsion of death , indicates the period when the passive or lower tension of the muscular power ceases .
A distinction was here drawn by the author between the muscular condition present during syncope and during death .
Syncope , it was urged , means the continued action of the heart at a low tension , from which it can be suddenly raised into full tension with , restoration of the powers of life ; death means the cessation of the lowest tension at which the heart can effectively work .
It was shown that in all the cases of restored animation after apparent death the condition of the heart was that of a muscle acting under the lower degree of tension .
In this intermediate stage , between syncope and death , the most striking results were obtainable ; but beyond this stage the methods so successful during it , were practically useless for restoration .
The experiments of the author for reestablishing artificial respiration , together with artificial circulation , and of these combined with electrical excitation of the nervous centres , were next referred to ; but as they had already formed the subject of a paper read before the Society , they were but briefly dwelt upon .
If , continued the author , the question be asked , why , at a certain stage of haemorrhage , there is development of muscular excitability , the answer is not difficult .
The phenomenon is probably due to an irregularity in the distribution of power between the muscular organ and the nervous centre with which it is connected : the effect is due , that is to say , to a continued nervous irritation applied to the muscle after the resistance of the muscle is impaired , while the cessation of the motion is due to the nervous exhaustion that succeeds .
In this first series of changes the voluntary muscles and the voluntary centres are involved ; but the loss of blood continuing , the same series of changes affect in turn and in like order the involuntary muscles and their nervous centres : the result of this is the second convulsion , indicating death , after which there is no further motion except that which belongs to particular parts ; there is no central motion , that is to say , supplying all parts as from a prime source of power , and sustaining all parts from a prime direction of the motion supplied .
The author described in this place a number of experimental attempts to preserve blood for the purposes of transfusion .
He had endeavoured to preserve by slow desiccation of blood ; but had found that when blood was submitted to evaporation , however slowly , an albuminous pellicle formed on the upper surface , exactly as caseine forms on milk , and this 346 Dr. B. Ward Richardson on Muscular [ May 29 , prevented the perfection of the process .
Recently he had been more successful by evaporating blood to which saline substances had been added ; he could not , at the same time , pronounce what he considered a satisfactory termination of this line of experimental inquiry .
Effect of some Chemical Agents .
In this portion of his lecture the author detailed a series of experimental researches with various chemical substances , organic , inorganic , and intermediate , which tend to prolong the period of muscular irritability by diffusion through the tissues of animals recently dead .
The substances which suspend irritability act in two ways .
Some , like chloride of sodium and other soluble saline substances , act merely by holding the coagulable fluid of the muscular tissue in a continued state of fluidity ; others seem to have a different action , and to hold the nervous function also in suspense .
The nitrite of amyl and other members of the nitrite series belong to this last-named class of agents , and some of the cyanogen bodies exert a similar influence .
In experiments with nitrite of amyl on cold-blooded animals ( frogs ) , the author had suspended muscular irritability for a period of nine days , and had then seen it restored to the extent even of restoration of life .
In one instance this restoration took place after the commencement of decomposition in the web of the foot of the animal .
In warm-blooded animals a series of suspensions had been effected by nitrites and also by cyanogens , not for so long a period , but foi periods of hours , in one instance extending to ten hours .
Under the head Action on Nervous Matter the author included , finally , a description of certain experiments he had made to determine the diiect effects of some agents upon the nervous matter .
In the whole series of his inquiries no fact had impressed him more forcibly than this , that the muscular irritability , in so far as it belongs to the muscle , may be sustained for hours after the nervous excitation which calls it into spontaneous action has ceased .
Hereupon he infers that after death the nervous matter undergoes a change of condition which , in result , is identical with that change m muscle which we call rigor mortis .
There is evidence , moreover , from some rare cases , that the final inertia of nervous matter maybe suspended and revived , so that all the muscles may be reanimated .
This point was elucidated by reference to the phenomena that had recently been observe by Mr. Wadsdale Watson , of Newport , Monmouthshire , on a double monster , photographs of which were placed before the Society .
n instance two children were born so attached that the sepaiation o eI was impossible .
Both lived equally for three hours after birth , and then one died and remained dead for three hours , while the othei ^ .
the end of the time named the dead child recommenced to biea e , a showed other signs of restored muscular power ; then it san\#171 ; .
in 0 second death , but at intervals of about four hours mo\e again , length , twenty-three hours after its first apparent death , during a 1 1873 .
] Irritability after Systemic Death .
347 crying of the living child , it recovered sufficient power to breathe and even to cry , and manifested evidence of life in all its muscles , except the heart , for twenty minutes , when it had a severe convulsion , which stopped all further motion .
In this instance the author believed that the retention of muscular irritability had depended upon the retention in the nervous organism of the conditions necessary for exciting motion .
He proceeded to describe his researches as to the possibility of suspending nervous changes incident to death , so as to retain the conditions requisite for the communication of nervous impulse to muscular fibre .
Summary .
1 .
There are three degrees of muscular irritability\#151 ; the active efficient , passive efficient , negative inefficient .
The muscle after death may be suspended in any of these conditions for action ; but , as a rule , it is the last condition only that is maintained long after death .
2 .
Muscular-irritability may be suspended or stopped altogether under three different conditions , having reference to its connexion with nervous activity:\#151 ; ( a ) The nervous and muscular activities may be suspended equally , on which there may follow spontaneous return of motion .
( ) The muscular irritability may outlive the nervous function , on which the phenomenon of irritability may be induced by the application of the motor forces , but there is no return of spontaneous irritability , i. e. of irritability belonging to the animal as an independent agent , ( c ) The nervous function may outlive the muscular irritability , under which circumstances irritability is invariably stopped by the production of persistent contractility of the muscular fibre .
3 .
Nervous activity exciting muscular action is identical with all the motor forces , and particular to none .
It is equivalent to mechanical , calorific , or electrical force , and equally susceptible of manifestation through either .
4 .
Muscular irritability after death is possible under conditions which , so far , are thus known .
Cold , in certain defined degrees , suspends without destroying it .
The motor forces strike it into rest .
Blood sustains it or stops it according to the balance of power existing between the muscular and nervous systems .
Some chemical agents .
suspend it independently , others suspend it , together and equally , with suspension of the nervous function .
When suspension is equal there may be spontaneous return ; when it is unequal there is no return .
In conclusion , the author said there had been six great advances in physiological medicine\#151 ; viz. the introduction of the art of anatomy , the discovery of the circulation of the blood , the discovery of the chemical process of respiration and nutrition , the discovery of the ultimate structure of animal bodies , the discovery of osmosis and of the crystal348 Election of Fellows .
[ June 19 , loidal and colloidal conditions of animal matter , and the discovery of methods for the general and local extinction of pain .
The next grand advance has for its design the discovery of the precise relationships of nervous to muscular structure in the living and in the dead conditions .
That established , the phenomena of muscular movement , its suspension or its destruction , will be understood like every other physical fact that lies this side of ultimate fact\#151 ; that is to say , that lies , as this clearly does , within the range of experimental inquiry .
June 12 , 1873 .
The Annua Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Lieut.-Col. Strange and Dr. Webster were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the following Candidates were declared to be duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; William Aitken , M.D. Sir Alexander Armstrong , M.D. , K.C.B. Robert Stawell Ball , LL. D. John Beddoe , M.D. Frederick Joseph Bramwell , C.E. Captain Edward Killwick Calver , R.N. Robert Lewis John Ellery , F.R.A.S. Lieut.-Col. James Augustus Grant , C.B. , C.S.I. Clements Robert Markham , C.B. George Edward Paget , M.D. George W est Royston-Pigott , M.D. Osbert Salvin , M.A. The Hon. John William Strutt , M.A. Henry Woodwrard , F.G.S. James Young , F.C.S. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 19 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
Sir Alexander Armstrong , Dr. Robert Stawell Ball , Mr. Frederick Joseph Bramwell , Captain Edward Killwick Calver , Lieut.-Col. J. Augustus Grant , Mr. Clements Robert Markham , Dr. George West Royston-Pigott , Mr. Henry Woodward , and Mr. James Young rvere admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read :\#151 ;

