1882 .
] Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula .
425 Doint qui soit place par rapport k a , b , c comme le point est place sir N"* par rapport a a1 ' , b " , c " .
Le point s'obtient de la meme maniere sir N ' .
Les points fi2 et fisont alors aussi les projections sir N et N ' d'un meme point de la corde de contact La droite fi , est done tangente a la parabole comme nous l'avions ^Lel^gmento ah , a'f , sont les projections sir N et N ' d'un segment de ux fi , qui , lui meme , est la projection sir le plan ( N , N ) du segment de A , qui se projette sir N " en a " b " . .
Ce segment de A rencontre le plan ( N , N ' ) an point de H x qui se projette sir N et W en et Ce que nous venons de trouver en considerant le plan ( N , N ) peut se repeter pour les plans ( N , N ) , ( N , N ) .
De tout cela resulte cette propriety qui etablit un hajson tres simple entre les six centres de courbure prmcipaux de ( L ) , ( ) , ( H " ) .
Trois surfaces homofocalesdu second se coupent en un point m. Les normalesd ces surfaces en ce point sont N , N\ N " .
Ces rencontrent les plans principauxdes surfaces homofocales , la premiere en a , b , c , la deuxiemeen a ' , b ' c\ et la en a " , b ' , c .
On respectwement de ces points des plans perpendiculaires a ces normales .
Les plans issusdes points a , a ' , a " se en un certain obtient de meme un point pour b , b ' , b " un troisieme point pour e , c , c. Ces trois points appartiennent a un meme droite A. Les projections de A , sir les plans determines par les normales N , 1ST , N " , prises deux a deux , rencontrent ces normales aux centres courbure principaux des trois surfaces homofocales .
Ces centres de courbure sont alors aussi les projections sir les normales N , N ' , N " , des points oil A perce les plans determines par ces normales prises'deux ddeux .
La droite , qui joint les projections sir de ces normales du point ou A perce le plan de ces droites , est Vaxe de courbure de la ligne d ' intersection des surfaces homofocales normales d ce plan .
II .
" Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
" By Willi AM Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.K.S. Received March 9 , 1882 .
Last evening ( March 7 ) I succeeded in obtaining a photograph of the spectrum of the great nebula in Orion , extending from a it t below F to beyond .
M. in the nltra- violet .
The same spectroscope and special arrangements , attached to the 18-inch Cassegrain telescope with metallic speculum belonging to t ie * A " n'est pas sir la figure , ui les points b , c .
42 o Dr. W. Huggins .
On the Photographic [ Mar. 10 .
1882 .
] Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
Royal Society , were employed which , have been described in my paper on " The Photographic Spectra of Stars .
" * The exposure was limited by the coming up of clouds to forty-five minutes .
The opening of the slit was made wider than during my work on the stars .
The photographic plate shows a spectrum of bright lines , and also a narrower continuous spectrum which I think must be due to stellar light .
The bright stars forming the trapezium in the " fish 's mouth " of the nebula were kept close to the side of the slit , so that the light from the adjacent brightest part of the nebula might enter the slit .
Outside this stronger continuous spectrum I suspect an exceedingly faint trace of a continuous spectrum .
In the diagram which accompanies this paper the spectrum of bright lines only is shown , which is certainly due to the light of the nebula .
In my papers on the visible spectrum of the nebula in Orion , and other nebulae , f I found four bright lines .
The brightest line , wavelength 5005 , is coincident with the less refrangible component of the double line which is strongest in the spectrum of nitrogen .
The o second line has a wave-length of 4957 on Angstrom 's scale .
The other two lines are coincident with two lines of hydrogen , 11/ 3 or F , and H7 near G. In the photograph these lines which had been observed in the visible spectrum are faint , but can be satisfactorily recognised and measured .
In addition to these known lines the photograph shows a relatively strong line in the ultra-violet , which has a wave-length 3730 or nearly so .
The wide slit does not permit of quite the same accuracy of determination of position as was possible in the case of the spectra of stars .
For the same reason I cannot be certain whether this new line is really single , or is double or multiple .
In the diagram this line is represented broad to indicate its great relative intensity .
This line appears to correspond to \#163 ; of the typical spectrum of white stars .
J In these stars this line is less strong than the hydrogen line near G ; bub in the nebula it is much more intense than H7 .
In the nebula the hydrogen lines F and H7 are thin and defined , while in the white stars they are broad and winged at the edges .
The typical spectrum has been added , for the sake of comparison , to the diagram .
I cannot say positively that the lines of hydrogen between H7 and the line at 3730 are absent .
If they exist in the spectrum of the nebula , they must be relatively very feeble .
I suspect , indeed , some very faint lines at this part of the spectrum , and possibly beyond X 3730 , but I am not certain of their presence .
I hope by longer ex* " Phil. Trans. , " 1880 , p. 672 .
t lb. , 1864 , p. 437 , and 1868 , p. 540 .
Also " Proc. Roy .
So .
, " vol. 14 , p. 39 , and vol. 20 , p. 380 . .
t " Phil. Trans. , " 1880 , p. 677 .
VOL. XXXIII .
2 I Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Mar. 16 , posures and with more sensitive plates , to obtain information on this and other points .
It is , perhaps , not too much to hope that the further knowledge of the spectrum of the nebulae afforded us by photography , may lead by the help of terrestrial experiments to more definite information as to the state of things existing in those bodies .
III .
" On the Disappearance of some Spectral Lines and the Variations of Metallic Spectra dne to Mixed Vapours .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 11 , 1882 .
The theory ' of spectral lines most commonly received is that the otions of the luminiferous ether producing them are not directly due to any motion of translation of the molecules of the emitting substance , but to relative motions of the parts of the same molecule , or in other words , to vibrations occurring within the molecules ; and that the mutual action of the molecules , while it may give rise to irregular vibrations of the ether , affects the regular vibrations producing the lines only in an indirect manner , by converting part of the motions of translation .into internal vibrations .
On this theory the spectral lines which any given substance can readily take up will in general be limited to a certain number of fundamental lines and a number of others harmonically related to them , though not necessarily simple harmonics of the fundamental lines .
And variations of temperature , by altering the rapidity and the violence of the action of one molecule on another , will alter the intensities of the several vibrations , but not their periods , unless the violence should extend to the disintegration of the molecules , which would be equivalent to the formation of new molecules with new fundamental periods of vibration .
In view of this theory , the observations on the spectrum of magnesium have a special interest , because from the close analogy of magnesium to zinc and cadmium , it is inferred that the molecules of magnesium vapour are chemical atoms of that substance , that is to say , they pass apparently undivided through all the chemical changes to which magnesium may be subjected ; and it seems reasonable to suppose that any subdivision of the chemical atoms could not fail in this case to be attended with a change of chemical qualities , which , in the presence of other elements , would give rise to new compounds .
No such new compounds have in fact been detected .
" We have already described in detail the differences between the spectra of magnesium as seen in the flame of the burning metal , the electric arc , and the spark discharge , and we have now some further observations upon them to place before the Society , which are confirmatory of the received theory .

