Results of some recent Experiments on the Properties impressed upon Light by the Action of Glass raised to different Temperatures , and cooled under different Circumstances .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.A.S.Ed .
in a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read May 19 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 436 .
] The author , being engaged in making a variety of experiments on resinous and other bodies that could be fused between plates of glass , remarked a partial depolarization while the subject of examination was hot , but which diminished on cooling , and consequently could not be ascribed to incipient crystallization .
He therefore tried a plate of glass alone ; and having previously raised its temperature almost to a red heat , he found that a ray of polarized light became completely depolarized by its passage through it : and he further thence infers , that glass brought to a certain temperature forms two images , and polarizes them like all doubly refracting crystals , only that the two images are , in fact , coincident , instead of being separated .
Since in the formation of the glass-tears , called Prince Rupert 's drops , which are made by dropping melted glass into cold water , it is probable that in consequence of the sudden consolidation at the surface , the interior part is prevented from contracting , and consequently retains , in some measure , that relative distance of its particles which obtained in the fluid state , the author conceived these drops to be a fit subject for an interesting experiment ; andb having procured several such drops , made of white flint-glass , he cut and polished one of them by two planes at right angles to the axis , and a second by two planes parallel to its axis and to each other .
When polarized light was transmitted through a drop in either of these directions , it was found to be depolarized ; but there was not any position in which the transmitted ray would retain its polarization , as is found in corresponding experiments with crystallized substances .

