20 Mr. C. Schorlemmcr on the [ June 16 , XVIII .
tcChemical and Physiological Experiments on living Cin-chonse .
" By J. Broughton , B.Sc. , E.C.S. , Chemist to the Cinchona-Plantations of the Madras Government .
Communicated by Dr. Edward Erankland .
Received May 16 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir describes the principal scientific results which have been obtained during the last three years , in the course of chemical work on the Neilgherry Cinchona-plantations .
The chemical characteristics of the various parts of the Cinchona plant are described .
The condition in which the alkaloids are met with in the living bark is shown to be that of a slightly soluble tannate existing in the parenchymatous cells .
The order of formation of the alkaloids is shown to he , 1st , uncrystal-lizable quinine ; 2nd , crystallizable quinine ; 3rd , cinchonidine and cinchonine .
Reasons are adduced for thinking that the alkaloids are really formed in the tissues in which they are found .
The effect of the solar rays falling on the bark , either while living on the tree or when separated , is shown to be prejudicial to its contained alkaloids .
The effects of shielding the bark artificially , and the influence of elevation of the site of growth , are detailed .
The question as to whether the alkaloids are substitutes for the mineral bases is discussed , and a series of experiments is described , which combine to show either that such substitution does not take place , or does so only in a very partial degree , XIX .
( \lt ; Researches on the Hydrocarbons of the Series Cnll2n+2"\#151 ; VI .
By C. Schorlemmer .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received June 14 , 1870 .
In my last communication* I stated that , from the results of my experiments , I came to the conclusion that , by acting on these hydrocarbons with chlorine , a mixture of 'primary and secondary chlorides was formed , as the alcohols derived from these chlorides yielded on oxidation , besides an acid containing the same number of carbon atoms as the alcohol , also acetones , or the characteristic oxidation products of secondary alcohols .
The correctness of this conclusion has been fully proved by further experiments , and I am at present engaged in investigating the conditions under which the one or the other of these chlorides is formed .
In order to obtain decisive results , it was first of all required to work on considerable quantities of a hydrocarbon ; and I selected for this research hexyl-hydride , Ce II14 , from petroleum , as this body can be obtained the most easily in a sufficient quantity .
The derivatives of hexyl-hydride have been fully investigated by Cahours * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xviii .
p. 25 , 1870- ] Hydrocarbons of the Series CnH2ft+r 21 and Pelouze * , but the results which I have so far obtained differ in several important points from those of these eminent chemists .
By acting on this hydrocarbon with chlorine in the cold and in presence of iodine , I prepared hexyl-chloride , C6 H13 Cl , already described by Cahours and Pelouze , which boils at 125'\#151 ; 126 ' C. ; but besides this compound there was also formed a pretty large quantity of a product which distilled between 126 ' and 135 ' C. , and from which no substance having a constant boiling-point could be isolated .
This higher boiling portion can be separated only with difficulty from the chloride boiling at 125'-126 ' , for even after repeated distillations a residue of the former is always left behind .
On heating the lower boiling chloride with glacial acetic acid and potassium acetate a hexyl-acetate was obtained , of which the larger portion distilled between 158 ' and 162 ' , the boiling-point rising up at last to 170 ' .
Besides the acetate a pretty large quantity of hexylene , C6 Hia , had also been formed by the decomposition of the chloride .
The chloride boiling between 126 ' and 135 ' , treated in the same way , yielded also hexylene , besides a hexyl-acetate distilling between 160 ' and 170 ' .
According to Cahours and Pelouze , this ether boils at 145 ' .
I did not try to isolate definite compounds from these acetates , as I found that by converting them into the alcohols and subjecting these to fractional distillation , they easily split up into two distinct compounds , \#151 ; one , which forms the greater part of the mixture , boiling constantly at 140'\#151 ; 141 ' , and the other and smaller portion distilling between 150 ' and 155 ' ; the quantity of liquid coming over between these two limits being quite insignificant .
The liquid boiling at 140 ' is a secondary hexyl-alcohol ; on oxidation it yields first an acetone , which , by further oxidation , splits up into acetic acid and butyric acid .
It is therefore methyl-butylcarbinol , \#151 ; \#166 ; c^h ) } ch.oh .
Whether this compound is identical or not with the secondary hexyl-alcohol , which Erlenmeyer and Wanklyn obtained from mannite , I am not yet able to decide .
The body which distilled between 150 ' and 155 ' is a hexyl- alcohol , C6 Hls Oil ; on oxidizing it an oily acid was formed , which , as the analysis of its silver-salt showed , has the composition of acid , C6 H12 02 .
Cahours and Pelouze mention in their memoir only the latter alcohol ; they do not state , however , under what conditions they acted upon the hydride with chlorine .
I have found that , by treating this hydrocarbon with chlorine alone in the cold as well as at the boiling-point , chlorides are obtained which boil between 125 ' and 135 ' , and which appear to be identical with those described above .
I intend not only to study these chlorides more fully , but also to * Annal , Chim , Fhys .
( 4 ) i. 5 .
Dr , C. B. Radcliffe on Animal Electricity .
[ June 16 , jcompare the alcohols obtained from them with the secondary alcohol from mannite and from hexylene , and with the primary hexyl-alcohol which is -found in fusel-oil .
XX .
" Formation of Cetyl-alcohol by a singular reaction .
" By 0 .
Schorlemmer .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received June 14 , 1870 .
On heating a mixture of sebacic acid , C10 H1S 04 , and caustic baryta , besides the hydrocarbon C8 H18 , which I have described in a former communication* , other products are formed , amongst which there is a solid body , which , by several crystallizations from alcohol , was obtained in small white crystals .
On analyzing it , Mr. Dearden obtained results which led to the formula C18 H34 O , which is that of cetyl-alcohol:\#151 ; Calculated .
Found .
I. II .
Cia ... ... 192 79*34 79-3 78-9 IIM ... ... .
34 14 05 13-8 13-9 O ... ... 16 6-61 --------------242 100-00 - This body has not only the composition but also the characteristic properties of cetyl-alcohol ; it melts at 49 ' , and solidifies again at the same temperature .
The formation of this compound is certainly very singular , and perhaps the more so as cetyl-alcohol is so easily oxidized to sebacic acid by the action of nitric acid .
I intend to obtain larger quantities of it by the above reaction and to investigate it .
XXI .
" Researches in Animal Electricity .
" By C. B. Radcliffe , M.D , Communicated by Charles Brooke , M.A. Received May 19 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) Part I. The subjects of the present inquiry are three in number :\#151 ; 1 .
The electrical phenomena belonging to living nerve and muscle during rest ; 2 .
The electrical phenomena which mark the passing of nerve and muscle from the state of rest into that of action ; and 3 .
The workings of voltaic electricity , and of electricity generally , upon nerve and muscle .
1 .
The electrical phenomena belonging to living nerve and muscle during the state of rest .
Argument.\#151 ; Living nerve and muscle have an electricity of their own , which fails by degrees as life dies out , and is wanting altogether after * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 376 .

