Energy of Bontgen and Bays , fyc .
U Energy of Rontgen and Becquerel Rays and the Energy required to produce an Ion in Gases .
" By E. Rutherfokd , M.A. , B.Sc. , Macdonald Professor of Physics , and R. K. McClung , B.A. , Demonstrator in Physics , McGill University , Montreal .
Communicated , by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The primary object of the investigations described in the paper was the determination of the energy required to produce a gaseous ion when X rays pass through a gas , and to deduce from the result the amount of energy radiated out into the gas by uranium , thorium , and the other radio-active substances .
In order to determine this " ionic energy " it has been necessary to accurately measure the heating effect of X rays and the absorption o Rontgen radiation in passing through a gas .
_ The coefficient of transformation of a fluorescent screen excited by X rays as a source of light has also been investigated , and a simple practical method of expressing the intensity of Rontgen radiation in absolute measure has been explained . . .
The method adopted to determine the ionic energy was briefly as follows:\#151 ; The maYirrmm current between two electrodes produced by the ionization of a known volume of the gas by the rays was determined .
In order to ionize the gas energy has to be absorbed , and the intensity of the radiation falls off more rapidly than the law of inverse squares .
Assuming that the energy of the radiation absorbed in the gas is expended in the production of ions , then , knowing the coefficient of absorption of the rays in the gas , the total current produced by the complete absorption of the whole radiation given out by the bulb into the gas can be deduced .
Let i = maximum current produced by the total ionization of the gas by the rays , n = number of ions produced , e = charge on an ion .
Then i == no .
1 Let H = heating effect due to the rays when absorbed in a metal , E = total energy of the rays in ergs , Then E = JH , where J = Joule 's equivalent .
If W = average energy required to produce an ion , then nW = E = J.U , 246 Prof. E. Eutherford and Mr. E. K. McClung .
The values of H and i are experimentally determined , and , assuming the value of e , namely , 6*5 x 10-10 electrostatic unit , determined by J. J. Thomson , the value of W is found in absolute measure .
In the course of the investigation the following subjects have been considered:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Measurement of the heating effect of X rays .
( 2 ) Efficiency of a fluorescent^screen excited by X rays as a source of light .
( 3 ) Absorption of X rays in gases at different pressures .
( 4 ) Determination of the energy required to produce an ion in air and other gases , including deductions on\#151 ; ( a ) Distance between the charges of ions in a molecule .
( b ) Minimum potential difference required to produce a spark .
( 5 ) Energy of Becquerel rays and emission of energy by radio-active substances .
Heatinq Effect Bays .
An automatic focus tube was employed , excited by a large induction coil with a special form of Wehneldt interrupter giving fifty-seven breaks per second .
The bulb gave out intense rays of a very penetrating character .
The heating effect was measured by determining the variation of resistance of a special platinum bolometer when the rays fell upon it .
A platinum strip , about 3 metres in length , 05 cm .
wide , and 0*003 cm .
thick , was wound on a light mica frame 10 cm .
square .
Two such " grids , " as similar as possible , were constructed , and formed the two arms of a Wheatstone bridge .
A balance was obtained for a momentary pressing of the battery key , using a sensitive galvanometer .
The rays were then turned on for 30 or 45 seconds , and the deflection from zero determined immediately after the rays were stopped .
In order to measure the heating effect , a current was sent for the spme time as the rays acted through the grid , and its value adjusted until the deflection due to the heating of the grid was the same as for the rays .
When this is the case the heat supplied per second to the grid by the rays is equal to the heat supplied per second by the current .
Thus , heating effect of rays per second = 0*24 E calorie , where i = current through the grid of resistance E. The grids were enclosed in a lead vessel with an aluminium window to let in the rays .
The whole was surrounded by a felt covering , and several aluminium plates intervened between the bulb and the grid , so that any heating effect , except that due to the rays , was completely eliminated .
Energy of Eontgen and Bays , \amp ; c. 247 About 0-55 of the energy of the incident rays was absorbed in the grid .
Some of the energy of the rays was used up in exciting secondary radiation at the surface of the platinum grid , but the amount was not large , and was neglected in comparison with the total energy of the rays .
The rate of supply of heat to the grid area 92-2 sq .
cm .
at a distance of 26 cm .
from the source of rays was 0*00014 gramme-calorie per second .
The total energy of the rays given out from the front surface of the platinum antikathode ( omitting absorption of rays in the glass of bulb , in air and screens ) was 0*011 gramme-calorie per second , or 0*046 watt .
The number of discharges per second was 57 , and assuming 10-5 second* as the average duration of the rays during each discharge , the maximum rate of emission of energy from the bulb = 19*5 calories per second .
The heating effect of the sun 's rays falling normally on 1 sq .
cm .
of surface = 0*035 calorie per second .
The maximum rate of emission of energy from an X-ray bulb is thus 560 times greater than the energy of the sun 's rays at the surface of the earth .
Some experiments were made on the heating effect of the rays , using a thermopile , but it was found to be a very unsuitable instrument for such a determination .
Efficiency of a Fluorescent Screen .
Photometric comparisons were made of the light from a fluorescent screen with that of the standard Hefner-Alteneck amyl lamp , using a Lummer-Brodhun prism .
With a screen of platinocyanide of barium Intensity of light from screen _ 0.0206 .
Intensity oTlight from amyl lamp Tumlirzt has .
shown that the energy of the visible light from an amyl lamp falling normally on 1 sq .
cm .
surface at unit distance = 0*00361 gramme-calorie per second .
For X rays of the same intensity as were used in the photometric measurements , the energy under the same conditions = 0*0023 calorie , * Trouton , ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1896 .
f ' Wied .
Annal .
, ' yoI .
38 , p. 640 .
Prof. E. Rutherford and Mr. R. K. McClung .
or the rate of emission of energy per second as visible light from the Hefner lamp is nearly twice the rate of emission of energy from the X-ray tube .
073 of the energy of the rays was absorbed in the screen .
The efficiency of the transformation of X rays into visible light by the screen ( compared with the Hefner lamp ) = 0-044 or 4*4 per cent. \ Assuming this .transformation factor for a fluorescent screen , two simple photometric measurements are required to express the energy of any bulb in absolute measure .
The light from a fluorescent screen is first compared with the standard Hefner lamp .
The absorption of the rays in the screen is determined by placing a piece of the screen in the path of the rays .
Let p = ratio of intensities of light from bulb and lamp , Pi = ratio of transmitted to incident radiation on the screen .
Then it is shown that the intensity in absolute measure 0-082p l-Pi gramme-calorie per second .
The absorption in the cardboard of the screen is supposed to be negligible , but if necessary can be readily allowed for .
Absorption of X Rays in Gases .
A null method was employed , as the absorption of the ra_ is in air at atmospheric pressure was small .
The rays passed through two long brass tubes with aluminium ends , and the current produced by the rays , after passing through one tube , was balanced against the current due to the other .
On exhausting one tube the electrometer balance was disturbed .
From measurements of the deflection per second from the balance and the deflection per second due to the rays after passing through one tube , the absorption can be calculated .
The mean value of the coefficient of absorption of the rays in air at atmospheric pressure was found to be 0-000279 , or the rays would pass through 24-7 metres before absorption reduced the intensity of the radiation to one-half .
The absorption was found to be proportional to the pressure from a half atmosphere to three atmospheres .
The coefficient of absorption in carbonic acid gas was found to be 1-59 times the absorption in air .
Energy of Rontgen and Becguerel Rays , Energy required to " produce an Ion .
The current produced when a given volume of the gas was ionized , y X rays was determined by means of an electrometer .
In order to et rid of the secondary radiations set up when X rays strike on a conductor , the rays passed between two charged parallel plates without triking them .
A guard-ring method was employed to ensure uniformity of the electric field .
The value of the ionic energy was deduced from the determination \#187 ; f the current , heating effect , and absorption of the rays .
The mean ralue of the energy required to produce an ion in air at atmospheric iressure and temperature was found to be 1*90 x 10-10 erg .
This value is much greater than the energy required to produce hydrogen and oxygen ions in the decomposition of water .
The ionic energy of air was found to be approximately the same from pressures of one-half to three atmospheres .
The method of determining the ionic energy for other gases is described , and the evidence that the " ionic energy " is the same for all gases is discussed .
Distance between the Charges of the Ions in a Molecule .
On the assumption that the energy absorbed in producing an ion is due to the work done in separating the ions against the forces of their electrical attraction , it can be shown that the mean distance between the charges of the ions in the molecule is 1-1 x 10~9 cm .
This is only of the probable diameter of the atom .
This result is in accordance with the view recently advanced by J. J. Thomson , that ionization is produced by the removal of a negative ion from the molecule , and that the negative ion is only a small fraction of the mass of an atom .
Minimum Potential required to produce a Spailc .
If the production of ions is necessary before a spark can pass , it can readily be deduced from the value of ionic energy that a spark cannot pass for a potential difference less than 175 volts .
Experiments have shown that the minimum value is over 300 volts .
The theoretical value is of the same order , but from the complexity of the phenomena a very close agreement could not be expected .
250 Dr. A. Macfadyen , Dr. G. H. Morris , and Mr. S. Rowland .
Emission of Energy from Substances .
The velocity of the ions produced by Rontgen and uranium radiation in air has been shown to be the same .
The ions are thus probably the same , and it is a reasonable assumption that the same energy is required in both cases to produce them .
On this assumption the energy radiated by the radio-active substances can be determined .
The radio-active material was spread over a known area and the maximum current produced between the parallel plates determined .
The number of ions produced , and consequently the energy to produce them , can be calculated .
For a thick layer of uranium oxide ( 3-6 grammes spread over a surface of 38 cm .
) the energy radiated into the gas for 1 sq .
cm .
of the surface is 10~n calorie per second .
This amount of energy would suffice to raise 1 c.c. of water 1 ' C. in 3000 years , assuming no loss of heat by radiation .
From observations on the current due to a very thin layer of uranium oxide it is shown that the energy radiated into the gas is not less than 0-032 calorie per year for every gramme of the substance .
The energy radiated from thorium and radium is also considered , and the presence of the rays from radium deflected by a magnet is taken into account .
In the case of radium , which is 100,000 times more radio-active than uranium , the emission of energy per gramme of the substance is not less than 3000 calories per year .
" On Expressed Yeast-cell Plasma ( Buchner 's ' Zymase By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. , G. Harris Morris , Ph. D. , and Sydney Rowland , M.A. Communicated by Sir Henry E. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received June 19\#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
( First communication .
) Introduction.\#151 ; In 1897 a communication was published by Professor E. Buchner* in which he described a method by means of which he claimed to have isolated for the first time the active alcoholic ferment from the yeast-cell and to have demonstrated its action upon fermentable sugars .
Since then Buchner , mainly in conjunction with Rapp , has from time to time given an account of his further investigations in this direction , and these investigations are still in progress .
* ' Berichte d. deutsch .
Chem. G-es .
, * 1897 , p. 117 .
Vide also succeeding papers , 1897\#151 ; 1900 , ibid.

