II .
" Summary of a paper ( to be presented ) entitled Experimental Researches on the Spinal Cord as a leader for Sensibility and Voluntary Movements .
" By E. BROWNSE : QUARD , M.D. Commnunicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 25 , 1857 .
The new field opened by the genius of Sir Charles Bell is enlarging every day , and interesting advances in Physiology and Pathology are constantly being made which are due to the admirable discoveries of this eminent biologist .
The following results of my experiments are new developments of these discoveries .
I. It has been well proved by the researches , of which I have already published the results , that the nerve-fibres employed to convey sensitive impressions , may be deprived of sensibility , so that the property of being sensitive and that of conveying sensitive impressions are distinct one from the other .
A similar distinction must be made as regards the voluntary motor nerve-fibres .
I have found them inexcitable by some of our means of excitation in places where there are a great many of them conveying the orders of the will to muscles .
When we introduce a needle gently through the medulla oblongata from behind forwards , traversing successively one of the restiform bodies , the descending root of the trigeminal nerve , some gray matter and the anterior pyramid , not only the animal does not give signs of pain , but there is usually no movement produced il any part of the body .
The precautions which must be taken to obtain this result are described in the paper ; I will merely say here that if the needle is introduced obliquely instead of perpendicularly , a spasm of the muscles of the neck occurs , and sometimes the animal rotates .
This experiment shows that the irritation of the anterior pyramids with a needle , does not excite more movement than that of the cerebral lobes , although these pyramids are certainly channels for the transmission of orders of the will to muscles .
It results from this fact , that the conclusion , drawn by some physiologists , from the inexcitability of the cerebral lobes , that the voluntary motor nerve-fibres do not go into them , is not well-grounded .
I have found that the olivary tract of the medulla oblongata is both sensitive and motor , although it is not , as I have tried to prove elsewhere , a leader for sensibility and voluntary movements .
II .
Some experiments which I made two or three years ago , and many that I have recently performed , show that the lateral columns of the spinal cord in the neighbourhood of the medulla oblongata , and a part of the anterior gray matter , are the principal , if not the only channels for voluntary movements in that region .
Lower down in the spinal cord ( in the dorsal and lumbar regions ) , the anterior columns and the gray matter seem to have alone the function of conductors for voluntary movements .
If a transverse section be made of one of the lateral columns with almost the whole of the anterior horn of gray matter , about an inch behind the medulla oblongata , we find voluntary movements almost completely lost on that side .
If a transverse section be made of one of the anterior columns of the spinal cord , an inch behind the medulla oblongata , we find that voluntary movements are not much diminished ; and , as in this case , we divide also a part of the gray matter , and frequently a part also of the lateral column , it seems that the anterior column there has but little to do with voluntary movements .
Other experiments lead to the same conclusion ; I will relate the following alone : the anterior columns of the cord , when arrived at the medulla oblongata , are known to send most of their fibres into the lateral parts of this nervous centre , where they may be divided easily .
I have found , after the transverse section of the lateral column of the medulla oblongata , that the voluntary movements are very little diminished , and sometimes hardly at all .
Besides , if we divide longitudinally the medulla oblongata , where the pyramids cross each other , we find that the voluntary movements are completely lost in both sides of the body .
There are convulsive and reflex movements , but no spontaneous regular movement , and the animals , when put on their feet , fall on one side or the other .
From these facts and many others , it seems : 1st .
That the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata contain most of the voluntary motor nerve-fibres .
2nd .
That in the cervical region of the spinal cord , the voluntary motor nerve-fibres are mostly in the lateral columns and the anterior gray cornua .
3rd .
That , in the dorsal and lumbar regions of the spinal cord , these nerve-fibres are in the anterior columns and in the gray matter .
III .
I have shown elsewhere that the transmission of sensitive impressions continues to take place after a transverse section of either the posterior , the lateral , or the anterior columns of the spinal cord ; I have shown , also , that after a section of these three columns on the two sides , leaving the central gray matter and a great part of the posterior and anterior gray horns as little injured as possible , the transmission of sensitive impressions continues to take place , although diminished .
Since the publication of my researches on this subject , I have found that the anterior columns contribute positively , though but very little , to the transmission of sensitive impressions .
In frogs , in birds , and also in higher animals , I have found that after a complete transverse section of the whole of the spinal cord , except the anterior columns , there are traces of sensibility in the parts of the body which are behind the section .
During half an hour , sometimes much longer , after the operation , there is no appearance of sensibility , but after a time sensibility becomes evident .
It is not to be found everywhere behind the section , but it exists in many parts of the skin .
I was for a long time doubtful on this subject , because many times , in examining carefully the section of the spinal cord , after this organ had become very hard from having been immersed several days in alcohol , I have seen that a small quantity of gray matter had been left undivided at the bottom of the wound .
But in multiplying the experiments , I have ascertained beyond all doubt that when the whole of the gray matter has been divided , with even some fibres of the posterior surface of the anterior columns , traces of sensibility could after a certain time be found .
It has of course been impossible to divide absolutely the whole of the gray matter , without dividing at the same time a greater or smaller number of the anterior columns .
In looking at the result of this experiment , and comparing it with that of various others , in some of which very little of the gray matter had been left , while in others the number of the divided fibres of the anterior columns was greater than usual , I have found that in the anterior columns , only a thin layer of fibres seems to be employed in the transmission of sensitive impressions , this layer forming the surface of these columns which is in contact with the gray matter .
IV .
After having ascertained that there are some nerve-fibres in the white anterior columns which are employed in the transmission of sensitive impressions , I have tried to find if these fibres are sensitive or not , that is , able to give pain as the posterior roots of nerves , or unable to give pain , as the gray matter ; and have found that they seem to be totally deprived of sensibility .

