VI .
A Letter from Mr John Monro to the Publisher , concerning the Catacombs of Rome and Naples .
SIR , THe Catacombs are an obscure argument .
I have seen those of Rome , I have seen those of Naples , and as they say there are Catacombs in the Neighbourhood of all the great Towns of that part of Italy , I had been glad to have seen them where-ever they are .
They are an obscure argument indeed ; but perhaps the greatest obscurity about them is , that a matter that has so much exercised the Pens of the Moderns , shou 'd be totally neglected by the Ancients : Neither the name nor the thing is found in the latter , whereas among the former , Antiquaries and Travellers are full of them .
All they into whose way they come , think they do nothing if they do not exhaust them before they leave them ; they take all their dimensions , measure their height , their breadth and their length ; they survey all the little rooms , search every hole and corner , criticize nicely on the quality , and calculate the age of the poor Painting and Inscriptions , and make excursions into other arguments , to find out the end for which they were made .
The Catacombs are a narrow Gallery dug and carried a vast way under ground , with an infinite number of others going off it on all hands , and an infinite number of little rooms going off the principal , and them too .
Those commonly showed Scrangers are those of San Sebastiano , those of San Lorenzo , those of Sant Agnese , and the others in the Fields a little off of Sant Agnese .
They take their names from the Churches in their neighbourhood , and seem to divide the circumference of the City without the Walls between them , extending their Galleries every where under , and a vast way from it , so that all the ground under , and for many miles about it , is said to be hollow .
Now there are two sorts of Authors that run into extravagance on this subject ; the one will have them made by the Primitive Christians , adding , that in the times of Persecution they lived , held their Assemblies , and laid up the Bodies of their Martyrs and Confessors in them .
This is the account that prevails at Rome , and consequent to it there are men kept constantly at work in them .
As soon as these Labourers discover a Repository , with any of the marks of a Saint about it , intimation is given to the Cardinal Treasurer , who immediately sends men of probity and reputation to the place , where they find a Palm painted or engraven , or the Cipher Xp , which is commonly read pro Christo , or a small round projection in the side of the Gallery , a little below the Repository ; what is within it is carried to the Palace .
Many of these projections we have seen open , with pieces of the Vials in them ; the Glass indeed was tinctured , and it is pretended that in these Vials was conserved the Blood of the Martyrs , which was thus laid up nigh their Bodies , towards the Head , to distinguish them from those of the others that were not called to the honour of laying down their lives for the faith of the Gospel .
After the Labourers have surveyed a Gallery , they do up the entry that leads into it ; thus most of them are shut ; nor are more left open than what is necessary to keep up the trade of showing them to Strangers , which they say is done to prevent what has often happened , I mean peoples losing themselves in these subterraneous Labarynths ; by this conduct depriving us of the means of knowing whither and how far they were carried .
To this 't may be justly excepted , that allowing the Catacombs to be proper for the end for which they are presumed to be made , and that the Christians of that age were in a capacity of making that convenience , for themselves to live and assemble in below ground , at a time when it was so very unsafe to appear above it ; yet to suppose that a work of that vastness and importance cou 'd be carried on without the knowledge of the Government , is to suppose the Government asleep , and that that was actually done under its nose , that must necessarily have alarm 'd it , had it been attempted on the frontiers of the Empire .
The other sort of Authors give indeed a mighty Idea of the Catacombs , represent them as a work of that vastness , that the Christians in the persecuting times had not number enough to carry it on ; but then most unadvisedly with the same breath they confound them with the Puticuli in Festus Pompeius , where , at the same time that the Ancient Romans used to burn the Bodies of their dead , the custom was , to avoid expense , to throw those of the Slaves to rot .
This is not all , the Roman Christians , say they , observing length the great veneration that certain places gained by the presence of Relicts , resolved to provide a stock for themselves ; entring therefore the Catacombs , they made in some of them what Ciphers , what Inscriptions , what Painting they thought fit , and then shut them up ; intending to open them again upon a Dream or some other important incident .
The few that were in the secret of this Artifice either dying , or as the Monks , who were the only men that seem to have had Heads adapted to a thought of this quality , were sub .
ject to so many removes , being transported to other places , the contrivance came to be forgot , and those Galleries continued shut , till Chance , the Parent , often of great discoveries , opened them at last .
Thus they conclude , the remains of the vilest part of Mankind are trump 'd up in the Church for the Bodies of the most eminent Confessors and Martyrs .
To leave the latter part of this tale to shift for itself as well as it can , either the Catacombs are not that great work they are represented to be , nor to be found every where about the City , or it was very improper in Festus Pompeius to call them by the little name of Puticuli , and so confine them to one place only , that I mean unknown now without the Esquilin-Gate .
Indeed the characters of the places are so very unlike , that one wou 'd wonder how a common Burying place , where in holes Bodies were thrown together to rot , came to be confounded with Repositories cut in the face of a long Gallery , one over another , sometimes to the number of seven , in which Bodies were singly laid , and handsomely done up again , so that nothing cou 'd offend the view of those that went in , especially with the little rooms of the fashion of Chappels , that have all the appearances of being the Sepulchres of people of distinction .
The Remark , Puticulos Antiquissimum sepulturae genus appellatos , quod ibi in puteis sepirentur homines , is that of an Etymologist , that would be now thought to speak against all the property of Language , if he applied the name to our Graves or Vaults , to which it may with more justice and reason be applied , than to the Galleries of the Catacombs , and the rooms that go off them .
What the particulars were is not difficult to define , after what we have seen so often .
When the Persecutors spilt the Blood of so many Martyrs , they used to dig holes perpendicularly in the ground , and to throw their Bodies promiscuously in them ; of this the memory is still conserved , Churches being built in the places where the holes were made , and little Monuments erected over the holes themselves , to which the name of Putei is continued to this day .
This is the true notion of the Puticuli , holes dug perpendicularly in the ground to throw Bodies indifferently and without any decency in ; and according to the argument this ought to be the conduct of the Ancient Romans , with respect to their Slaves , as implying simplicity and the care to avoid a greater expense ; but then what 's all this to the Galleries and Chambers of the Catacombs , where decency and distinction of quality is nicely observed ; and that , if they were looked after , and kept in better repair , would be without dispute the noblest Burying-place this day in the world .
As often as they fall under my consideration , I cannot forbear thinking they were made for this end by the ancient Romans , and made in consequence of these two ancient opinions , that the shadows hate the light , and love to hover about the place where the Bodies are laid , they appear so easy and decent a resting place for the one , without the least fear of being ever disturbed , and at the same time there is provided a noble and a vast convenience full of variety for the others , to space themselves freely and with pleasure in .
I think 'twill not be denied , that laying up the Bodies in Caves was the original way of disposing of the dead ; this was that of the Phaenicians , and as they were the men that with their Colonies peopled the Western parts of the World , it is more than probable they carried it along with them whither soever they went .
Afterwards , as men grew great and powerful , they erected noble and magnificent monuments for themselves above ground ; at length others of inferior degree imitated them , all leaving room enough and excluding the light : but then interring as we do now in the open air , or in Temples , was never the manner till Christianity brought it in .
Of the whole we have many instances , and ~ Signior Abbate Bencini , Bibliothecary of the Propaganda , a Gentleman of good ancient Learning , assured me in the conversation I had with him on this argument , that on the great Roads in most parts of Italy little Catacombs have been and are still found under ground , and that it was the custom to build little Houses over them .
This , and the testimony of the Labourers whom I consulted on the matter , made me abandon an opinion of which I was once fond , that the Catacombs are of the nature of our Gravel-pits , as old as the City itself , and yet out of them was taken the Puzzolana , the famous Ingredient in the Roman Mortar .
The same learned Gentleman added , relating to the marks of a Martyr , that they do n't conclude much ; that the so famed Cipher Xp was in use among the Ancients long before Christianity begun : And when I asked him what the meaning of it might be among them , returned , that it was composed of the two Greek Letters X P , under which something mystical was comprehended , but that he met with no Author that gave account what the mystery was .
Thus , after a multitude of thoughts about the Catacombs , I 'm forced to take up with this ; so natural it is , arising from the sole theory of the place , and falls in so appositely with the Religion and Practice of the Ancients , among whom the Dii Manes were the Tutelary Gods of the Country , and D. M. at the head of an Inscription , argues the Moles , the Sepulchre , the Monument , &amp;c. was in the primary intention made for and dedicated to the Soul .
Upon the same maxims , in foreign expeditions , when a Hero died or was killed , as the Body was liable to a quick corruption , and for that reason unfit to be transported entire , they fell on the expedient of Burning , in order to bring home the Ashes , to oblige the Manes to follow , that so the Country might not be deprived of the benefit of its tutelage .
This I humbly conceive was the original of Burning , which by degrees became more and more universal , till at last the pomp and magnificence of it reconciled it to all that were able to go to the length of the expense .
As for the prejudice of the silence of the Ancient Authors in this matter , it is easily removed , and to be regretted at the same time that the Authors of all Ages too much neglect the customs of their own time .
Writing for the satisfaction of their cotemporaries , they think it impertinent to trouble them with the account of what they see transacted every day .
By this means the ancient customs , with the time , and reasons of their disuse , are lost with respect to us , and ours with the same circumstances may come to be so with relation to posterity .
As the Authors are pleased to adopt them for their Children , one wou 'd wonder greater care is not taken not to entail visible occasions of complaint on them ; nay , one wou 'd wonder more , to see theseGentlemen so little ambitious of a future reputation , when they may infallibly assure it themselves , without resigning the present , by transmitting the knowledge of things , the knowledge of which may in a small series of years become otherwise irretrievable ; they cannot but observe every day what esteem is placed on those Authors , to whom we are forced to go , to find in them what cannot be found elsewhere , to compare with the others , in whom nothing is to be found , but what men of Reason are able to find at home .
Upon the whole , the Catacombs I humbly conceive were the Burying-places of the ancient Romans ; at length the manner of Burning , which they received from the Graecians , coming by degrees to prevail universally , they fell under a total neglect .
This is the State in which the Primitive Christians must be supposed to have found them ; it is not to be imagined they cou 'd have made any use of them , at a time when it was the daily practice to lay up even the depositions of the Slaves in them ; so that either the Christians made no use of them at all , or they never were the burying Place of the Slaves .
Now as these are suppositions that naturally destroy one another , one would count it more safe to follow the faint light of a glimmering tradition , than abandon ones self to the conduct of an Ignis fatuus , that for ought a man knows is actually misleading him , so I beg leave to call the Testimony of Festus Pompeius , that may rather be applied to any other thing than to the Galleries of the Caracombs , carried under ground , they say 20 miles from the City in some places , and no body knows how far in others , and to that vast number of Chambers that go off them .
Thus therefore the Christians finding them in a state of neglect laid up the Bodies of their Dead in them ; and perhaps when the persecution was hot , concealed themselves and kept little separale Assembles in their Chambers .
At last the Empire turning Christians , they sell again in the old state of neglect , in which they continued till upon the reading of , I have forgot what Author that makes mention of them , they came to be ` looked into and searched .
What I have writ relates to the Catacombs of Rome , those of Naples are a quite other thing , of which per next .
I am , Sir , Your most humble Servant , Marseilles , Aug. 22 .
1700 .
J. Monro

