1884.1 Leaf of Vascular Cryptogams and 61 carbonic oxide .
The excess of inert oxygen has the same effect as the inert nitrogen in favouring the formation of carbonic acid .
The variations in the coefficient of affinity found by Horstmann with different quantities of oxygen are due partly to this cause , but chiefly to the varying amounts of steam condensed by the cold eudiometer during the reaction in different experiments .
As the general result of these experiments it has been shown that when a mixture of carbonic oxide and hydrogen is exploded with insufficient oxygen for complete combustion , at a temperature at which no condensation of steam can take place during the reaction , and at a pressure greater than the critical pressure , an equilibrium between two opposite changes is established , which is independent of the quantity of oxygen taken , so long as this quantity is less than half the hydrogen .
Within the limits marked out above , the law of mass is completely verified for the gaseous system composed of carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , hydrogen , and steam at a high temperature .
II .
" On the Comparative Morphology of the Leaf in the Yascnlar Cryptogams and Gymnosperms .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , M.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , M.A. , F.L.S. Received May 13 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) Eichler , in his dissertation on the development of the leaf , defined the primordial leaf as the young leaf before internal differentiation or external distinction of parts ; and further pointed out that subsequently two parts of it may be distinguished\#151 ; the foliar base ( blatt-grund ) which gives rise to the sheath and the stipules , if present , and the upper leaf ( oberblatt ) which developes into the simple branched lamina .
The petiole is also , according to Eichler , derived from the upper leaf , though Goebel describes it as being intercalated between the two parts .
The first part of the present paper is devoted to a discussion of this mode of treatment of the leaf .
In accordance with the views clearly expressed by Sachs and others , the terms stem and leaf are to be regarded only as expressions denoting certain relationships of the parts of the shoot ; the leaf is essentially an outgrowth from the stem .
If this proposition be accepted , the same mode of morphological treatment ought to be applied to both .
Now , in the treatment of the shoot as a whole , priority of importance is always attached to the mode of origin , and sequence of appearance of the several parts , while subsequent changes of conformation and disMr .
F. 0 .
Bower .
On Leaf of the [ May 29 , turbance of their arrangement , resulting from peculiarities of the distribution and localisation of growth , are regarded as of but secondary importance .
In treating of the leaf , however , this principle is not kept in view .
The very distinction of foliar base and upper leaf is chiefly based upon results of intercalary growth which would be regarded as but of secondary importance in treating of the shoot at large .
One of the objects of the investigations detailed in this paper was to ascertain , by comparative study of the lower forms , whether there is sufficient ground for this inconsistency of treatment .
It is further pointed out that , though this treatment is not open to obvious objection in the case of simple leaves , in branched leaves the parts thus distinguished are not morphologically co-ordinate .
On dividing the leaf into foliar base and upper leaf , a distinction is drawn between the lower part of the axis ( so to speak ) of the leaf and the whole of its upper branch system\#151 ; a distinction which might be compared with that of the bole of a forest tree below the lowest branches from the whole of the upper part of the trunk with its branches of all orders ; such a distinction would not lead to a true knowledge of the morphology of the tree , or of the relation of its parts one to another .
It is found that a comparative study of the leaf of the lower vascular plants does not justify the continuance of this inconsistency in the method of treatment of axis and leaf , but rather that the leaves of the lower forms lend themselves to a Consistent treatment throughout their length as branch systems .
As we rise in the scale , the main axis of the branch system becomes gradually more differentiated as a supporting organ , distinct from the members of higher order which it bears , while the assimilating function chiefly devolves upon its flattened branches .
This being the case , this axis must be recognised by a distinct term : the name phyllopodium is proposed to designate the main axis of the leaf exclusive of its branches ( pinna ?
) ; thus the relation of the pinna to the phyllopodium is similar to that of the leaf to the axis .
Three parts of the phyllopodium may be distinguished in complicated leaves , but this distinction is only to be drawn where a difference really exists ; the basal portion may be called the hypopodium , and coincides with Eichler 's " blattgrund ; " the mesopodium is the equivalent of the petiole ; the third part , or epipodium , differs from the " oberblatt ** of Eichler in including only the upper part of the phyllopodium , exclusive of its branches .
This method of treatment of the leaf is consistent with the treatment of the stem , while the parts severally distinguished are morphologically co-ordinate .
As above stated , this method is amply borne out , and shown to be a natural one , by the study of the development of leaves in the lower vascular plants .
The second part of the paper is devoted to a detailed comparison 1884 .
] Vascular Cryptogams and 63 of the development of the leaf in a series of types of Vascular Cryptogams and Gymnosperms , beginning with those lowest in the scale ; the third part points oat the conclusions to be drawn from that comparative study .
The chief facts and conclusions are as follows:\#151 ; In the simplest forms , the Hymenophylla the apex of the young leaf , is , according to Prantl , flattened , and has the two-sided apical cell so characteristic of flattened organs ; it branches chiefly , if not exclusively , by dichotomy .
By the stronger development of one limb of each dichotomy a sympodial arrangement is produced , which appears in the mature leaf as an apparently well-defined pseudo-axis or phyllopodium ; but since the branching is dichotomous , the phyllopodium is not clearly differentiated in the first instance from the less strongly developed limbs .
It is characteristically a flattened structure , and is in most cases winged to its extreme base ; and though the leaf is complicated , it has no peculiarity of conformation at the base to which the term hypopodium could with reason be applied .
In the majority of Leptosporangiate Ferns , exclusive of the Hymenophyllacece and Osmundacece , the apex of the phyllopodium still retains the two-sided apical cell so characteristic of flattened organs , but the branching of the leaf is at first monopodial , though there is sometimes a return to the dichotomous branching in the higher ramifications ; its apical growth is in some cases unlimited .
Thus the phyllopodium is here more clearly differentiated from the pinnae , the structure of the apex is , however , still that characteristic of flattened organs ; it is a winged structure to its extreme base , though the wings are in many cases reduced to mere lateral ridges .
In the Osmundacece the two-sided apical cell of the above-named ferns is replaced , during the earlier stages of development , by a three-sided , conical , apical , cell ; and it is believed that in this respect they are unique among vascular plants .
The young phyllopodium is thus typically a solid structure ; it is still winged , and its branching is monopodial ; it shows peculiar modifications of form at the base , but these are referable without difficulty to the fundamental winged structure ; the apical growth is long continued , and in its upper parts the phyllopodium becomes flattened as in other ferns .
In Angiopteris , as an example of the Marattiacece , there is no single apical cell occupying the bulky apex of the phyllopodium , but in its place there is a group of four cells , and in this respect it approaches the higher types of vascular plants .
The phyllopodium is thus a solid structure from the first , its apical growth is limited , and its branching monopodial , though the order of succession of the pinnae is here , as in other ferns , strictly acropetal .
The peculiar stipulai structure at the base is referable in the light of similar structures in Todea to a modification of the winged structure .
64 Leaf of Vascular Cryptogams and [ May 29 , Finally , in the Cycadacece the rounded apex of the phyllopodium is covered by a definite layer of dermatogen ; its growth is never very distinctly apical , though in Cycas , and perhaps in Dioon , it is more so than in other genera ; it is winged throughout .
Its branching is in all cases Monopodial , but the order of succession is , with exception of the upper pinnae in the above-named genera , basipetal .
From the above and other facts , it is clear that in the series of plants above dealt with , a progressive differentiation may be traced of the phyllopodium on the one hand as a supporting organ , and on the t\gt ; there hand of the other members of higher order , which develope as flattened organs .
The phyllopodium in the first named families is typically a flattened organ with unlimited apical growth ; in the higher members of the series it is a solid structure from the first , and its apical growth is arrested at an early period .
Moreover , while in the lower forms it branches dichotomously , in the higher members of the series it branches monopodially , and is thus clearly distinguished at all times from the members of higher order which it bears .
It is thought that this progressive differentiation of the phyllopodium as a supporting organ among the similar members of a branch system may throw light upon the mode of origin of the axis as a structure bearing leaves ; and it is suggested that this analogy is at least closer than any that can be drawn from the study of the leafy Muscinece .
As the phyllopodium gradually asserts , and in the higher forms of the above series , maintains its identity among the branches of the leaf , so .the axis may have differentiated itself as a supporting organ from among members similar to itself in origin and development .
On ascending through this series of plants , there is further seen a gradual restriction of the apical growth , which in the simpler ferns is sometimes unlimited .
This leads on towards the higher vascular plants , in which the apical growth of the leaf usually ceases at an early stage , the general conformation of the leaf being due , as above pointed out , in much greater degree to intercalary growth .
Since this change is gradual , no important difference of morphological treatment of the leaf in the lower and the higher forms ought to be based upon it .
Now the leaves in the lower forms naturally lend themselves to a treatment throughout as branch systems , while there is even in some complicated fern leaves no structure which can warrant a distinction of the foliar base from the upper leaf .
On these grounds , and in the light of this comparative study , it is concluded that the recognition of the phyllopodium , and treatment of the whole leaf as a simple branch or as a branch system , is in accordance with the true nature of the leaf as seen in all vascular plants ; while at the same time , if this method were adopted , the whole shoot would then be subjected to consistent morphological treatment , since the relation of the pinnae to the phyllopodium is similar to that of the whole leaf 1884.1 The Changes in the Blastopore of the Newt .
65 to the axis which bears it .
This may be shown simply in tabular form thus\#151 ; Shoot .
r i Axis .
Leaf .
I I .
I Phyllopodium .
Pinna .
III .
" On the Changes and ultimate Fate of the Blastopore in the Newt ( Triton cristatus ) .
" By Alice Johnson , Newnham College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 15 , 1884 .
In a paper lately published on " The Origin of Metameric Segmentation , " Mr. Sedgwick mentions that he was led to conclude from Surface views of a large number of stages that the blastopore of the newt ( Triton cristatus ) does not close , but persists as the anus .
He suggested to me afterwards that I should attempt to test this observation by cutting sections of the embryos , and my results fully confirm what he previously stated .
Scott and Osborn , in their account of the development of the newt , describe a posterior dilatation of the medullary canal , the sinus rhomboidalis , which remains open for some time after the rest of the canal has closed .
They say that its folds enclose the blastopore , and that , therefore , when they come together , a neurenteric canal is formed .
Their account of the exact date of the closure of the medullary folds in this region is a little obscure , but seems to indicate that the event takes place while the number of protovertebrae is quite small , and before the rudiments of the visceral arches and tail have appeared .
Hertwig figures an open blastopore at a slightly later stage than this , but , judging from his surface views of the embryo , it is situated at the hind end of the tail .
At a stage when the medullary folds are widely apart , the slightly elongated blastopore is placed at the hind end of the body .
While the folds are approaching one another the dorsal surface grows faster than the ventral , so that the blastopore is carried round on to the ventral surface .
When the folds have completely coalesced , and before there is any trace of a tail , the blastopore is placed at some little distance from the hind end , which is much swollen and spherical in outline .
In transverse sections of the stage just described we find the blastopore actually communicating with a cavity in the midst of the yolk-cells .
This cavity is so exceedingly narrow that it can hardly be YOL .
XXXVII .
F

