Observations of a Comet , made with a View to investigate its Magnitude and the Nature of its Illumination .
T'o which is added , an Account of a new Irregularity lately perceived in the appcrent Figure of the Planet Saturn .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read April 7 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 145 .
] Dr. Herschel presuming that the motion of the comet would be correctly ascertained at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , confined his observations to its physical condition , and relates the several circumstances which he remarked concerning its nucleus , its head , its coma , and its tail .
The form of its nucleus was particularly attended to on the 4th of October , and remarked to be perfectly circular and equally bright on all sides .
Its magnitude was at the same time estimated at about 3 " , due care being taken to determine that the visible disc was not spurious , by means described in a former paper .
It was examined with a 10feet reflector , and with powers of 200 and 300 ; but its light was not found sufficient to bear higher powers .
On the 19th at 511 40 ' it was again estimated at 2- " , but at 61 20 ' it was compared with Jupiter 's third satellite , and found to be rather less than it .
The coma or nebulous appearance surrounding the head was at the same time estimated at about six minutes , and on the 6th of December at 411 45f .
The tail on the 18th of October measured 3- ?
, but on the 6th of December it was reduced to 23 ' .
The tail was at various times observed to appear longer and more distinct on the south preceding , than on the north following , side .
Various authors having said that the tails of comets were so rare as not to affect the light of the smallest stars seen through them , Dr. Herschel paid particular attention to that circumstance ; but uniformly found those stars which he saw emerge from behind the tail to become brighter than before in comparison to neighbouring stars .
On the 6th of December the head had the appearance of a large brilliant round nebula , suddenly much brighter in the centre .
On the 1st and 14th of January it had still more the appearance of a nebula , with an increase of brightness in the middle ; but even so late as the.21st of February , the nebulosity was observed to project a little on that side where the tail used to be seen .
The inferences which Dr. Herschel draws from these observations , are , first , that the body of the comet consists of solid matter about.538 miles in diameter ; secondly , that since the portion of its visible hemisphere which could be illuminated by the sun on the 4th of October did not exceed 120 ?
, and since it did not appear gibbous but perfectly circular , the surface of the comet must itself be luminous , and the same inference is drawn respecting the nature of the tail ; for if it were sufficiently dense to be visible by reflected light alone , at the distance of 235 millions of miles , its opacity would entirely prevent our seeing stars through it .
The length of the tail is computed to have been on the 18th of October upwards of nine millions of miles .
The resemblance of this comet to a nebula during the last ten wseeks of its appearance excites a suspicion in Dr. Herschel 's mind , that he may possibly have classed as nebulae other cometary bodies ; but it would be a task of too many years ' labour to revise his catalogue of nebulae for the chance of discovering any deficiency of those formerly observed .
In the second part of this paper , Dr. Herschel informs us , that he has remarked a new irregularity in the apparent form of Saturn ; for that in the month of June last , there was a visible protuberance of its south pole , which could not have been overlooked at the time of his former observations .
This he ascribes to the refraction of light in its passage through the atmosphere of the ring , which was interposed between us and the southern hemisphere , but , passing behind the northern hemisphere , did not occasion a similar protuberance .

