828 The Geological Bearing of Mr. Davison s Paper .
[ May $ nental denudation are chiefly deposited .
Hence , the continents grow by the formation of mountain-chains along their borders .
3 .
The rate of mountain-making , and therefore also that of conti .
nental evolution , diminishes with the increase of the time .
IV .
" Note on the Geological Bearing of Mr. Davison 's Paper .
" By T. G. Bonnet , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in University College , London .
Received April 7 1887 .
' The results obtained by Mr. Davison throw light upon one or two matters in regard to the petrology of the older rocks , which have always appeared to me difficult of explanation .
I venture therefore to add a brief note to his paper , written from the point of view of a geologist .
He throws light especially on the following matters ( 1 .
) Among the older rocks the great foldings and their resnlts , such as cleavage , appear to have occurred when the beds formed the upper layers of the earth 's crust .
Thus the Ordovician rocks of North Wales were cleaved anterior to the deposit of the Silurian ; the Carboniferous , and other Palaeozoic rocks of South-west Britain and Britanny were plicated and cleaved , geologically speaking , shortly after their deposition .
The great foldings in the Scotch Highlands occurred , in great part at least , in Silurian time .
The disturbance of the Lake District rocks , resulting in cleavage , must be placed between the end of the Silurian and the very beginning of the Carboniferous ; that of Southern Scotland , between perhaps yet narrower limits .
The first epoch of mountain making in the Central Alps , with its plication and cleavage , immediately followed the deposition of the Eocene rocks .
The list might easily be extended .
( 2 .
) The crystalline substratum often appears to be less modified than the overlying softer and more recent beds .
This I had attributed to the greater resistency of the former , but then could not see how to explain the foldings of the latter , if the others were comparatively Uncompressed .
This , however , accords with Mr. Davison 's results of the diminishing effects of compression , while the fact that in early geological times the " neutral zone " between compression and tension was comparatively near the surface of the earth , may explain the frequent parallel arrangement of the minerals in the older Archaean gneisses .
I do not now refer to the more marked changes , such as the intercalation of calcareous or micaceous rocks , of more felspathic or quartzose layers , whereby a stratification is simulated , if it be not recorded , but to the fact that very often a general parallelism may be 1887.1 Dr. J. F. Main .
On the of Ice .
noted in the flakes of mica or any other mineral of somewhat like form scattered through the mass of the rock , sometimes approximating to a banding of the constituents , without any indication of this being the result of crushing .
In regard to this particular structure , it is worth notice that it often lies in planes making a low angle with the horizon .
( 3 .
) The same result may help to explain the assertion so frequently made , that among the older rocks the foliation ( or minor mineral banding ) is commonly parallel to the ( apparent ) stratification ( or major mineral banding ) .
This also I have noticed in cases where either there was no indication of subsequent crushing , or the latter had not effaced , and its effects could be distinguished from , the earlier structure of the rock .
I once supposed this parallelism and tendency to horizontality to be due to the weight of superimposed beds , but for some time have been dissatisfied with this explanation , because I could find no evidence that any heavy burden had been laid upon the older rocks till long after they had assumed a foliated structure .
Tension , however , would probably produce the structure at least as readily as pressure , and the former of course would , as a rule , act parallel with the surface of the earth 's crust , while compression should be exhibited commonly in planes making a high angle with it .
Y. " Note on some Experiments on the Viscosity of Ice.5 ' By J. F. Main , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. W. C. Unwin , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of some experiments on the continuous extension of bars of ice subjected to tension , made during the last winter in the Engadine .
To eliminate the influence of regelation , the experiments have been carried on at such low temperatures as preclude the possibility of any effect being produced by this cause .
The highest temperatures during the experiments were \#151 ; 2'6 ' C. in Experiment I ; \#151 ; 1*0 ' C. in Experiment II ; and \#151 ; O'o0 C. in Experiment III .
These maximum temperatures only obtained for a very short time on one or two days .
The bars were tested in a compound lever testing machine with accurate knife edges , the load being a known weight of shot .
The whole apparatus was enclosed in a double wood box .
A delicate thermometer graduated to tenths of degrees , attached inside the box , gave the temperature at any given time , and the range of variation of temperature was recorded by two maximum and minimum thermometers , fi:e l inside to the roof of the inner box .
To obtain ice

