402 A New Form of Self-restoring Coherer .
[ Mar. 18 , " A New Form of Self-restoring Coherer .
" By Sir Oliver Lodge , F.E.S. Communicated verbally March 5 , \#151 ; Received in Manuscript March 18 , 1903 .
On the general subject of the detection of Hertzian waves the writer took the opportunity of the discussion on Dr. Fleming 's paper ( p. 398 ) , to describe briefly the latest form of coherer , which Dr. Muir-head and he had brought out and always now employed in connection with space telegraphy , and which their assistant Mr. E. E. Robinson had helped to work out .
It might be described as a development of the mercury form of coherer described some years ago by Lord Rayleigh , and again in a modified fashion by Mr. Rollo AppleyarcL In Lord Rayleigh 's form this consisted of a pool of mercury cut across with a paraffined knife , and the two half pools connected to a battery and key .
As soon as the key was depressed so as to throw a few volts on to the intervening film of oil , the electrostatic pressure seemed to squeeze the oil out , and the pools of mercury became one .
Needle points dipping in oil and mercury were tried as practical coherers , the points being pulled out electromagnetic-ally every time a signal arrived .
Rotating forms of contact for automatic decoherence were also tried in various forms , and ultimately the method took the form of a rotating sharp-edged steel wheel , about half an inch in diameter , constantly touching a pool or column of mercury on which was a thin layer of oil .
No effective contact occurs between the wheel and the mercury , notwithstanding the immersion , because of the film of oil ; but the slightest difference of potential applied to the two , even less than one volt , is sufficient to break the film down and complete a circuit , which , however , the rotation of the wheel instantaneously breaks again .
The spark is so sudden that for its purposes the wheel is for the instant virtually stationary , and yet the decohesion is so rapid that signals can be received in very rapid succession .
The definiteness of the surfaces and of the intervening layer make the instrument remarkably trustworthy , and the thinness of the insulating film makes it very sensitive .
In fact a single cell of a battery cannot be employed as a detector , because it is of too high a voltage for the film to stand .
A fraction of a volt is employed by a potentiometer device\#151 ; usually something like one-tenth of a volt\#151 ; and it is adjusted to suit circumstances .
The battery acts through the coherer direct on a low resistance recorder , and the record on the strip shows every character of the arriving pulses , and exhibits any defect in the signalling .
Provided that every joint and contact , except the one intended to be filmed , is thoroughly good , the coherer in this form is so definite and satisfactory that it becomes safe to say that the only outstanding defects are those which occur at the sending end .
The signals are 1903 .
] On Central American Earthquakes , etc. 403 picked up and recorded precisely as they are emitted , as has been tested by intercalating a siphon recorder in a much diluted tapping 'circuit at the sending end , so as to get a record with which to make comparison .
The traces obtained at the two ends are identical to a surprising degree .
The mercury level has an adjustment which is easily made .
One precaution is to keep the rim of the wheel clear of dust , which is done by a cork or leather pad pressed lightly against it by a spring .
The instrument is not at all sensitive to tremor , and requires no particular delicacy of adjustment .
The wheel has to be positive , the mercury negative .
A telephone in circuit , through a transformer or otherwise , affords an easy method of discriminating the signals by ear .
The speed of the wheel gives another convenient adjustment to suit various circumstances .
" On Central American Earthquakes , particularly the Earthquake of 1838 .
" By Admiral Sir John Dalkymple Hay , Bart. , G.C.B. , F.R S. Received March 6 , \#151 ; Read March 19 , 1903 .
The very interesting report of Dr. Tempest Anderson and Dr. J. S. Flett on " Recent Volcanic Eruptions in the West Indies , " induces me to suggest that inquiries should be made in Colombia and in Central America as to disturbances in those regions , in order to trace the connection existing between the earthquakes and volcanic eruptions which are there so prevalent , and those in the West Indies .
Doubtless Mr. Welby , who has just returned to his post at Sta .
Fe de Bogota , might be able to obtain thence some information on this matter .
In the British Association Report , of 1858 , upon Earthquakes , those of 1835 and of 1841 are given ; but , unfortunately , no information is given as to the effect of those disturbances from any British source .
The British Association in both cases seem to have been mainly indebted for their information to the Academy , and hence the effects in Martinique and Guadeloupe are quoted , but nothing is reported from our West India Islands .
One of the most terrible disturbances in its effects , that of 1838 , is not even alluded to .
The only record of it is in the work of E. G. Squier , late Charge d'Affaires from the U.S. of America to the Republics of Central America ( 2 vols .
, Appleton , New York , 1852 ) , who was commissioned by his Government to report upon that region in reference to the Nicaraguan Canal .
Vol. 1 has the map ; vol. 2 , pp. 114 , 115 , and p. 162 alludes to the eruptions of Cosequina in 1838 ,

