3 .
" On the Algebraic Expression of the Number of Partitions of which a given number is susceptible .
" By Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , K.H. , F.R.S. &amp;c. The object of this paper is to exemplify and extend the mode of analysis explained by the author in two former communications to the Royal Society " On the Development of Exponential Functions , " and " c On Circulating Functions , " to a case in the theory of numbers in which they afford remarkable facilities , viz. that of the partitions of which a given number is susceptible .
The separation of the symbols of operation from those of quantity , in the mode explained in the former of those communications , allows of the expression of the sums of certain series entering into this theory , under a form susceptible of resolution ( by a theorem here given ) into two portions , one of which , a rational function of the independent variable or number to be subdivided , expresses approximately , as a rational fraction , the number of partitions ; the other , a periodic or circulating function , expresses the fraction , less than unity , by which the other portion differs from an exact integer number , and which , applied with its proper sign to that former portion , reduces it to an integer .
In the mode of procedure here followed all subdivision into cases according to the numerical constitution of the number to be subdivided is avoided , and a uniform treatment is carried throughout .
May 30 , 1850 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
Sir Benjamin C. Brodie , Bart. , gave notice , that , at the next ordinary Meeting of the Society , he would propose the Right Honourable Lord Londesborough for election into the Society .
Mr Weld communicated the following particulars respecting the original model of the safety-lamp which was presented to the Society at this meeting by Joseph Hodgson , Esq. , F.R.S. In November 1815 , Sir Humphry Davy read a paper before the Royal Society ' On the Fire damp of Coal Mines , and on Methods of lighting the Mines so as to prevent its Explosion .
' In this communication he described a safe light , C which became extinguished when introduced into very explosive mixtures of fire-damp : " but as this fell short of the philosopher 's wishes , he instituted a fresh series of experiments , which resulted in his invention of the safety-lamp described in a paper read before the Society in January 1816 .
" The invention , " he says , " consists in covering or surrounding the flame of a lamp or candle by a wire sieve ; " and he adds , " c when a lighted lamp or candle screwed into a ring soldered to a cylinder of wire gauze , having no apertures except those of the gauze , is introduced into the most explosive mixture of earburetted hydrogen and air , the cylinder becomes filled with a brighti flame , and this flame continues to burn as long as the mixture is explosive .
" The model in the possession of the Royal Society answers in every respect to this description , and to the representation of the lamp which accompanies the paper .
It was made by Sir Humphry 's own hands , and given by him to Dr. Lee , now Lord Bishop of Manchester , whose father was Assistant Secretary to the Royal Society at the time of Davy 's Presidency .
The excessive simplicity of the contrivance is most remarkable ; but this is one of the greatest advantages which attended the invention .
As the author remarks in the paper just quoted , " All that the miner requires to ensure security , are snmall wire cages to surround his candle or lamp , which may be made for a few pence , and of which various modifications may be adopted .
And the application of this discovery will not only preserve him from the fire-damp , but enable him to apply it to u:e and to destroy it at the same time that it gives him a useful light .
" A month after the invention Sir Humphry informed the Society that his cylinder lamps had been used in two of the most dangerous mines near Newcastle with perfect success .

