On the Error in Standards of Linear Measure , arising from the thickness of the Bar on which they are traced .
By Captain Henry Kater , V.P. and Treas .
R.S. Read June 17 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 359 .
] While engaged in the adjustment and verification of the copies of the Imperial standard yard destined for the Exchequer , Guildhall , Dublin , and Edinburgh , the author discovered a source of error arising from the thickness of the bar , upon the surface of which measures of linear dimension are traced .
A notice to that effect was published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1826 ; and the object of the present paper is to give an account of the experiments the author has since made on this subject , and to describe a scale which le has had constructed , so as almost entirely to obviate the source of error thus introduced .
From the experiments detailed in the first part of the paper , the following conclusions are deduced:-First , that in a standard of linear measure , traced upon the surface of a bar , an error arises from the thickness of the bar when it is placed upon a table the surface of which is not plane ; Secondly , that this error in bars of the same miaterial , and of unequal thickness , is within certain limits as the thickness of the bar , and depends upon the extension of that surface of the bar which becomes convex , and the compression of the surface which is concave ; Thirdly , that the error to which the same scale is liable from this cause , is directly as the versed sine of the curvature of the surface upon which the scale is placed ; Fourthly , that the error very far exceeds that which would arise from the difference of length between the arc and its chord under similar circumstances ; so much so , that the sum of the errors from this cause , in a bar one inch thick , with a versed sine of not one hundredth of an inch , is nearly one thousandth of an inch , whilst double the difference between the chord and the arc is not one fifty thousandth .
The author devised the following method of trying a surface supposed to be plane ; namely , by applying to it in different directions a piano-forte wire , one hundredth of an inch in diameter , which bears a considerable degree of tension without breaking , strung on a bow 6 feet long ; a contrivance which , he states , may be applied to a great variety of useful purposes , when a straight edge is required .
He could detect the nature , and in some degree the extent , of the irregularities of a surface , by tapping with the fingers upon the wire whilst it was pressed by the weight of the bow upon the board .
When it yielded no sound , the wire was of course in contact with the surface , which was , in that case , either convex or plane .
When the wire yielded a sound the surface was concave , and some idea might be formed of the extent by the acuteness or gravity of the sound produced , the edges of the concavity serving as bridges which limited the length of the string .
So delicate is this test , that a cavity can be detected by this method when the interval between the wire and the surface under examination is imperceptible to the eye .
The error in question , resulting from the extension and compression of the surfaces of the bar dependent upon its curvature , is obviated in the following manner .
The neutral surface , which suffers neither extension iaor compression , is shown by the author to be at about one third of the thickness of the bar from that surface , which becomes convex .
When the object is to have two points only on the bar , marking for example the yard , by cutting away one half of the thickness of the bar at its ends , and placing the points upon the new surface , the error arising from flexure is reduced to the least possible quantity ; but when a scale of inches is required , the nearest approximation to correct measurement is obtained by diminishing as much as possible the thickness of the bar , and -by providing another bar on which it is to be supported , and on which it is allowed to slide freely in a dovetailed groove , formed by two side plates of similar thickness , screwed to the surface of the bar , and to which it is to be fixed at its middle point by a single screw passing through it .

