V. An Account of some Experiments touching the keeping of Fishes in Water under different Circumstances .
By Mr Fr. Hauskbee , F. R. S. THE Fishes made use of in the following Experiments were Gudgeons ; which are a sort of Fish very brisk and lively in the Water , and will live a pretty considerable time out of it .
Three of them I put into a Glass Vessel , to about three Pints of common Water ( which Fishes were to be a standard to compare the others by .
) Into another Glass , to a like quantity of Water , I put three more of them , which quantity of Water just fill d this Glass to the very Brim ; upon which I screwed down a Brass Plate with a Leather between , to prevent a Communication with the Water in the Glass and the External Air : And that it might the better resemble a Pond of Water frozen over ( on which account this Experiment was made ) I suffered as little Air as possible to remain on the Surface of the included Water .
The third Glass had a like quantity of Water put into it as the former ; which Water , first by boiling , then by continuing it a whole Night in Vacuo on the Air Pump , was purged of its Air to the greatest nicety : Into this Water also , I put a like number of Gudgeons as into the other .
Thus ( the Fishes being all put into their respective Receivers ) I applied my self to wait the Event ; which was as follows .
It was about half an Hour after Ten in the Morning when I began the Experiments ; and in about half an Hour from that time , I observed the Fishes in the exhausted Water , or Water purged of its Air , began to discover some uneasiness , by a more than ordinary Motion in their Mouths and Gills , or Respiration , if I may call it so , differing from the Fishes in the other Glasses ; the included Fishes at the same time discovering no alteration ; only I took notice that they would now and then ascend to the top of the Water , but suddenly swim down again : And in this State they continued for some considerable time , without any senfible Alteration .
About 5-Hours after the last Observation , the Fishes in the exhausted Water became not so active ( upon a Motion given the Glass that contained them ) as before : And those Gudgeons included without any Communication with the outward Air , now began considerably to abate of their Vivacy ; yet still continued at times their Motions upward and down again .
At Seven in the Evening , the included Fishes lay all at the bottom of the Glass , with their Bellies upwards ; nor upon shaking the Glass , could I put them in Motion , or cause them to stir their Fins or Tail ; only I could observe a Motion in their Mouths , which showed me they were not perfectly dead .
In this State they lay for some time : But considering the Experiment would not be complete , if I did not attempt their Recovery by taking off the Brass Cover , being very sure they must have died in some small time under the Circumstances they were then in , accordingly I took off the Cover , and gave the Surface of the Water a free and open Communication with the External Air .
At about Ten at Night , I observed them again ; at which time their Recovery was so evident , that upon a little disturbing the Glass that contained them , they were actually in Motion again : And at this time also , the Fishes in the Water purged of Air , began to appear more brisk and lively than at the last Observation .
Here I cannot but take notice , that notwithstanding the Water was purged of its Air to a very great degree , yet the Fishes put into it did not so much as once ascend in it ; but continued always at the bottom , as the Fishes did in the common Water .
At this time I left them till the nextMorning ; when about Eight a Clock I found them as perfectly well and lively in all the Glasses , as when they were first put in .
Those in the common Water exposed to the open Air , suffered no manner of change during the whole time .
After this I was willing to try whether the Air had again insinuated itself into the purged Water , and whether that might not be the occasion of the Fishes Recovery .
Accordingly I put it on the Plate of my Pump , in the same Glass with the Fishes in it ; and being covered with another Receiver , the Air was taken from it ; yet I could perceive very little Air ascend in it , and to me it seemed to be much in the same State as when the Fishes were first put in .
I continued it in Vacuo about an Hour and half ; the Fishes almost all the time continued at the top of the Water , and at that time appeared as dead ; for upon letting in the Air , they sunk hastily to the bottom , without any Motion of their Fins or Tails .
From the whole Account I observe , First , That Water purged of Air , so far as the Method here made use of , is capable to do it , renders it not altogether unfit to support the Lives of Water Animals .
For altho ' when the Fishes were first put in , and for some Hours after , they seemed to suffer some uneasiness ; yet at length the Water became more familiar to them , or their Constitutions in some measure did so conform , as to render the Water to them , and them to the Water more agreeable : Otherwise I do not see how their Recovery should follow , since upon examining , little or no alteration could be found in the Circumstances of the Water , from the time the Fishes were first put in .
Secondly , The Fishes included with their Water from any Communication with the External Air .
plainly demonstrate , that common Water in its Natural State is not alone sufficient to preserve the lives of its Natural Animals .
Hence it follows , that in Ponds , when the Water comes to be frozen over with a pretty thick Ice , the Fishes in the said Ponds are very likely , if not certain to perish , upon the continuance of such a Congelation for some time on their Surfaces ; unless ( as in the latter part of the Experiments ) the Impediment , which hindered the immediate Contact of the Air to the Surface of the Water , be removed ; that is , by breaking Holes in the Ice , whereby it is restored , and undoubtedly will perform the same thing as my Removal of the Brass Plate .
This is to be understood only in Ponds , where the Water is stagnant ; for where there are Springs , or a current of Water constantly succeeding under the Ice , the effect most likely will not be the same .

