46 Sir John Conroy on the [ May 18 , it follows that *XJr " .
( aAD*)-1 .
( ^+rD*+r ) .
t/ ( " -r ) , ( - !
) ' r(a ?
D-fe + l ) , H_r ) \#151 ; |r 'r(a ?
D \#151 ; \amp ; \#151 ; ir + 1 ) ' ( -i)r _* S_ |r \x\J \#151 ; r = ^P-r.^+rDr.a ?
" Yn-r ) . . . .
( 10a ) _(-l)\#187 ; r(a ?
D\#151 ; A ?
+l ) L " 'n " [ a ' r(^D \#151 ; \amp ; \#151 ; r + 1 ) ( -i)n * _* ~ j n -X[a ?
D ' . .
= \lt ; ~1 ) .
a-*+nDn .
ar V . . .
la ( 106 ) Observe that , since r , n are supposed positive integers , these symbolic ratios always consist of a finite number of factors ( viz. n respectively ) , and are therefore always interpretable , whatever be the value of Tc .
May 18 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; 1 .
" Absorption-Spectra of Iodine .
" By Sir John Conroy , Bart. , IvI .
A. Communicated by A. G. Vernon Harcourt , Lee 's Reader in Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received April 12 , 1876 .
Iodine , as is well known , when in very thin layers , appears red by transmitted light ; and when in solution the colour of the liquid depends not only on the amount of iodine contained in it , but also on the nature of the liquid in which it is dissolved .
Schultz-Sellack has pointed out ( Pogg .
Ann. vol. cxl .
p. 334 ) that the liquids in which iodine is soluble may be divided into two classes:\#151 ; 1876 .
] Absorption-Spectra of Iodine .
first , those with which it gives reddish-brown solutions , like alcohol ; and secondly , those with which it gives violet ones , as bisulphide of carbon ; and also that the colours of these two solutions correspond respectively with the colour of solid iodine , when seen by transmitted light , and with that of iodine vapour .
Andrews ( Brit. Assoc. Report , 1871 ) has also remarked that iodine vapour and the solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon are dichroie , while such is not the case with its solution in alcohol .
As I am not aware of any other observations on the absorption of light by iodine in solution or in the solid state having been published , I have the honour of having an account of some experiments I have recently made on this subject communicated to the Royal Society .
For these observations I have used one of Browning 's spectroscopes with a single dense-glass prism of 60 ' , as with a greater amount of dispersive power it became more difficult to observe the beginning and end of the absorption .
The spectroscope was firmly screwed to the wall of the room , with the collimator pointing vertically downwards , the ligBft from a paraffin-lamp being reflected along it by a mirror\#151 ; the width of the slit and the position of the mirror and lamp remaining unaltered during the course of the experiments , in order that the different absorption-spectra should , as far as possible , be comparable with each other .
The solution whose absorption was to be observed was contained in a small beaker , supported by the ring of a retort-stand between the mirror and the slit of the collimator .
This arrangement was adopted in order to be able to observe the absorption through various thicknesses of the same solution , without having to use a wedge-cell , as some of the liquids in which iodine is soluble act very quickly on the cement with which such cells are fastened together .
A vertical scale was attached to the beaker , so that by gradually pouring a solution into it , the absorption through different known thicknesses could be observed , the solutions of iodine in bisulphide and tetrachloride of carbon being covered with a thin layer of water to prevent their evaporating .
When the absorption-spectra of solid and liquid iodine were to be observed , the beaker was replaced by a large cork w'hich fitted the ring of the retort-stand , and through which a hole had been bored in a line with the axis of the collimator , and the glass slips between which the iodine had been melted laid on this .
In the case of the liquid iodine , the low conductive power for heat of the cork retarded the cooling of the glass , and facilitated the observation of the absorption .
Ihe telescope of the spectroscope , the eyepiece of which wTas furnished with cross wires , was carried by an arm moving over a divided arc ; and the position of 10 of the principal lines in the solar spectrum having been observed , from these measurements , and from the wave- 48 Sir John Conroy on the [ May 18 , o lengths of the same lines , as determined by Angstrom , a curve was constructed , by means of which the readings of the spectroscope were reduced to wave-lengths .
Solid Iodine .
Layers of iodine sufficiently thin to be transparent can be readily obtained , as Schultz-Sellack has remarked , by squeezing melted iodine between two pieces of flat , well-polished glass : it is only necessary to place a small fragment of iodine between two pieces of glass which have been previously well cleaned with alcohol , and heat them over a spirit-lamp till the iodine melts , and then press them together .
I have obtained the best results by heating the iodine till it just melts , placing the pieces of glass on a smooth block of wood and squeezing them together with a flat cork .
The layers of iodine thus obtained are not usually of uniform thickness ; and , in addition to this , they contain so little iodine that I was unable to determine their thickness by ascertaining the weight and area of the film .
When seen , however , by reflected and transmitted light , the iodine film usually appears surrounded by coloured rings ; and as these alter their position and shape when the glass slips are pressed together , they must be due to a thin layer of air , and not to any substance adhering to the glass ; and consequently the layers of iodine are probably less than *00004 inch , or *001016 mm. , in thickness .
When seen by transmitted light , these layers of iodine vary in colour from a deep brownish red , through different shades of brown , to a more or less pure yellow , according to the thickness and nature of the film ; for , as is shown in the paper " On the Polarization of Light by Crystals of Iodine " { infra , p. 51 ) , the colour of the transmitted light apparently does not depend solely on the thickness of the layer of iodine through which it passes .
These films correspond in colour with alcoholic solutions of iodine of different strength , and the absorption-spectra are very similar\#151 ; the whole of the blue end of the spectrum being cut off , and the absorption extending further and further towards the less refrangible end of the spectrum , as the thickness of the film increases , till at length only light having a wave-length of about 650 ( in " tenth-metres " ) , or slightly more refrangible than the C line , passes through ; and a very slight increase in the thickness of the film is sufficient to stop this also .
Pig .
4 shows the appearance with a film of medium thickness , the strong absorption ending at a point about one third of the distance between E and D , together with a certain amount of darkening extending to about D , and represents the mean results from measurements of the absorption-spectra of seven different films of iodine .
Liquid Iodine .
With a little careful management it is usually possible to melt one of these thin layers of iodine by heating it over the flame of a spirit-lamp , 1876 .
] Absorption-Spectra of Iodine .
49 without causing it either to be dissipated in vapour or to run together .
The liquid iodine appears to be more transparent than the solid ; for a layer which appears a deep red colour by transmitted light when hot , sometimes becomes perfectly opaque on cooling .
When hot it is also of a deeper red than when cold ; and the spectroscope shows that while the less-refrangible rays of the spectrum are freely transmitted , there is more absorption of those of mean refrangibility than is the case with solid iodine .
Fig. 3 shows the absorption-spectrum as deduced from five observations .
Just as is the case with solid iodine , light of a wave-length of about 650 suffers the least amount of absorption during its passage through a layer of iodine .
JD 60 Iodine in Solution .
As I have before mentioned , the liquids in which iodine is soluble may be divided into two classes : first , those with which it forms brownish-red solutions , as alcohol , ether , ethyl bromide , Dutch liquid , benzole , glycerine , potassium iodide in an aqueous solution , hydrogen chloride , \amp ; c. ; second , those with which it forms violet solutions : this latter class is less numerous , and as far as I have hitherto been able to ascertain by actual experiment , only consists of the following substances\#151 ; the bisulphide , tetrachloride , and monochloride of carbon , chloroform , phosphorous terchloride , tin tetrachloride , and under certain circumstances , as will be hereafter mentioned , hydrogen sulphate .
In Watts 's ' Dictionary of Chemistry , ' vol. i. p. 881 , it is stated that the solution of iodine in chloral has a purple colour .
In order to obtain solutions of iodine of a known strength , some of the liquids in which it is soluble being very volatile , a small glass weighing-tube closed with a cork was nearly filled with iodine which had been crushed small with the edge of a platinum spatula .
A stoppered flask holding 25 c. c. was filled with the liquid iu which the iodine was to be dissolved ; and the tube having been weighed , a small quantity of iodine was shaken out of it , and the tube again weighed , and so on , till the desired amount had been added to the liquid .
In this way solutions of iodine in bisulphide and tetrachloride of carbon , VOL. XXV .
E 50 On the Absorption-Spectra of Iodine .
[ May 18 , chloroform , alcohol , and in aqueous solutions of potassium iodide were prepared , and the absorption produced by different thicknesses of these solutions observed .
Solutions of iodine in alcohol , and of iodine in an aqueous solution of potassium iodide , of different strengths were then prepared , and the absorption produced by layers of these solutions , varying in thickness from 5 mm. to 25 mm. , was observed .
Solutions of iodine in both liquids were , when of equal strength , of the same colour and the absorption-spectra were similar , and also similar to that of the solid iodine , except that the absorption did not appear to extend quite so far down the spectrum ; but as the transition from strong absorption to none at all is a very gradual one , it is somewhat difficult to determine the exact point at which the absorption ends .
Fig. 2 represents the mean results obtained from thirty observations through different thicknesses of the alcohol solutions .
Iodine dissolved in bisulphide of carbon absorbs most strongly light of mean refrangibility ; and the absorption-spectrum resembles that of the vapour of iodine as represented in the map to M. Thalen 's memoir , ' Le spectre d'absorption cle la vapeur d'lode ' ( Upsal , 1869 ) , except that the absorption is continuous , and does not extend quite so far towards the less-refrangible end of the spectrum .
Fig. 1 represents the mean result of eighty-one measurements of the position of the absorption produced by different thicknesses of these solutions .
The rays whose wave-lengths lie between 450 and 560 ( approximately ) are first absorbed ; and as the thickness of the layer or the concentration of the solution is increased , the absorption extends towards both ends of the spectrum , though more rapidly towards the less-refrangible one .
Just as was the case with the solution of iodine in alcohol , and with solid and liquid iodine , light of a wave-length of about 650 passes unabsorbed through a considerable thickness of the solution ; but a thickness which is sufficient to stop the whole of the red rays still allows the blue and violet ones to pass ; hence , whilst dilute solutions of iodine in bisulphide of carbon and other liquids of that class appear of a kind of red , when the light passes through a greater thickness , or the solution is more concentrated , they appear blue or violet .
Iodine is insoluble in cold hydrogen sulphate ; but when some fragments of iodine are placed in a test-tube , partially filled with strong hydrogen sulphate , and the tube heated , the iodine first melts , and then gradually colours the liquid , till it becomes about the same tint as a very dilute solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon .
.0100 grm. of iodine was placed in a test-tube containing 25 c. c. of strong hydrogen sulphate , and the test-tube carefully heated over a spirit-lamp until the whole of the liquid iodine had disappeared ; the acid appeared of the same colour as a solution of iodine in chloroform , containing about the same amount of iodine .
The colour of the acid did not 1876 .
] On the Polarization of Light .
51 alter on cooling ; after standing 24 hours the upper layer of acid for a depth of about one centimetre from the surface had become colourless ; but at the end of five months the acid in the lower part of the tube was still pink , the upper half having become colourless , and a small quantity of a black powder having settled at the bottom .
Only a very small quantity of iodine can be held in solution by the hydrogen sulphate when cold , as any excess separates out in minute crystals .
It does not appear probable that the difference in the colour of the solutions which iodine forms with liquids of these two classes depends on any chemical fact , as both classes contain substances of very dissimilar chemical composition .
I have not , however , as yet been able to ascertain any common property possessed by all the liquids of either class , beyond ( as , indeed , is obvious ) that all those in which iodine forms violet solutions are volatile liquids of high specific gravity .
It has been shown by various observers ( H. Morton , Pogg .
Ann. vol. civ .
p. 573 ; Hagenbach , Pogg .
Ann. vol. cxlvi .
p. 533 ; Kraus , ' Chloro-phyllfarbstoffe , ' p. 53 ) that the position of the absorption-bands of substances in solution vary to a certain extent with the liquid in which they are dissolved ; but this would appear to depend on some other cause ; for , in addition to the displacement being small , it differs in amount with different liquids ; whilst in the case of iodine , as far as I have been able to observe , the position of the absorption is the same for all the liquids belonging to one of the two classes .
The action on light of iodine dissolved in alcohol greatly resembles the effect it produces when in the solid state ; whilst the absorption of its solution in carbon bisulphide , and in other liquids of that class , bears , as has been pointed out to me by Professor Stokes , the same relation to the absorption-spectrum of the vapour as the spectrum of the solution of a coloured gas ( nitrogen peroxide for example ) does to that of the gas .
II .
ffOn the Polarization of Light by Crystals of Iodine .
" By Sir John Conroy , Bart. , M.A. Communicated by A. G. Vernon Harcourt , Lee^s Header in Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Beceived April 12 , 1876 .
On examining by means of a Kicol prism the light reflected from the surface of a layer of iodine , obtained by heating a fragment of that substance and then squeezing it between two plates of glass , as described in the preceding paper , I found that the film did not appear of uniform brightness , and that when the Kicol was rotated the relative brilliancy of different parts of the film changed\#151 ; a portion that had appeared dark when the principal section of the Nicol was vertical , became bright when it was horizontal , and vice versa ; and , also , if instead of altering the

