]\gt ; IV .
of Simuttaneous Magnetic at servatories .
B- Professor W. GRVLLS ADAMS , D.Sc .
, F.R. Received June \mdash ; Read June 18 , 1891 .
[ PLATES 8 , 9 .
] IN my formel on Magnetic Disturbances and Earth Currents , which were read at the llgs of the British Association at Swansea in 1880 and at York in 1881 , a lparison was made of the declination and the horizontal force traces given the self-recording instruments at five European stations , also at one station in India , one in China , and one in Australia .
An altempt was made to determine the relative amounts of the simultaneous changes at the several observatories by comparing them with one another by means of the scale values of the instruments employed , which were all of the pattern of the self-recording irstruments at the Kew Observatory .
It was found on comparison that there were great differences in the scale values of the instruments of the same kind at the different observatories , and in some lere was great uncertainty as to the scale values , because no determination of had recently been made .
Hence great difficulty was found in arriving at the meaning of the records which were taken regularly at the different observatories .
The comparisou was sufficient to show the great importance of adopting the same values for the like instruments at all observatories .
In my paper a recomnendation was made that for horizontal force records a scale value millimetreligram m for a difference of scale reading of 1 mm. be adopted as being the most convenient .
The same scale value was recommended by Dr. WILD , of the St. Petersburg Observatory , for the vertical force magnetometer the same scale value might conveniently be adopted .
With this scale value the instruments would be sufficiently sensitive to give for a considerable magnetic disturbance changes which are capable of being measured , but yet would not be so sensitive as to send the spot of light off the photographic paper , even in a violent netic storm .
A violent magnetic storm was experienced in August , 1880 , and the records from these observatories , viz. , Kew , Stonyhurst , Lisbon : Vienna , St. Petersburg , Bombay , Zi-ka-wei , and Melbourne , as well as those from the Toronto Observatory in Canada , were compared and discussed in the paper read before the British Association at York in 1881 , and printed among the Reports of that year .
During the last ten years the number of self-recording magnetic observatories where Kew instruments are used has increased to 8 in Europe , 3 in Asia , 1 at the Mauritius , 1 at Melbourne , and 2 in the United States of America , whilst there are self-recording instruments of a different type at Greenwich , Paris , Utrecht , and Toronto .
For the bifilar magnetometer or horizontal force instrument a scale not eatly differing from millimetre-milligrammes of horizontal f.orce for 1 mm. of scale has been adopted at Kew , St. Petersburg , Vienna , Wilhelmshaven , Lisbon , San Fernando , Colaba , and Batavia , and the satisfactory nature of the results now obtained at these observatories clearly shows that it would greatly advance the study of terrestrial magnetism if the same scale value were adopted at other observatories .
Nearly the same scale value is adopted for the balance or vertical force magnetometer at , St. Petersburg , Lisbon , Batavia , and Mauritius , but at nearly all other observatories the instruments are considerably less sensitive , and their indications in ordinary magnetic disturbances are too small to be of much service for comparison or measurement of the amount of change of the magnetic forces or of the magnetic potential of the earth .
Thus in the disturbances on August 11th , 1880 , at the beginning of the magnetic storm at 10.20 , G.M.T. , the disturbance of horizontal force is measured at Colaba by a rise of 3 mm. , ab Toronto by 7 mm. , at Zi-ka-wei by 19 mm. , and at Vienna by 13 mm. ; but , as appears from I. , the values of these deflections are very nearly the same , viz. , a change of about 005 millimetre-milligramme .
With the scale value recommended , the measurements for this disturba , nce would have been from 10 to 12 mm. TABLE I. Vienna St , .
Colaba Melbourne Toronto Thus the sudden changes of force at stations widely separated over the Earth 's MAGNETIC DISTURBANCES AT ] ] RAL OBSERVATORIES .
surface do not differ very greatly from one another .
A direct comparison of the several photographic records reduced to Greenwich mean time shows in a very marked manner that the character of a disturbance is the same over a very wide area of the \fnof ; g Earth 's surface , that the different phases of the disturbances take place at the different stations at the same instant of time .
In the present paper a comparison is made of more recent gnetic disturbances in June , 1885 , at ten other observatories in addition to the seven observatories whose records were previously compared .
Quite recently two additional sets of Kew magnetic self-recording instruments have been set up in the United States of America , at Washington and ab Los Angeles , and the first Report from Washington , which has.just been published and gives a record of work done in 1889 , is very satisfactory , and should stimulate older magnetic observatories to bring their results into a state in which they will be more useful than at present and to publish them .
It is satisfactory to find that the scale values adopted at Washingon are nearly the same as the scale values which have been adopted at St. burg , Vienna , Wilhelmshaven , Kew , and some other magnetic observatories .
The importance of adopting as nearly as possible the values for the similar instruments at different observatories cannot be too strongly enforced in the interest of the study of terrestrial magnetism .
An attempt has also been made to apply the Gaussian analysis to the simultaneous magnetic disturbances in order to discover the amount of change in the potential of the Earth , which would be ient to account for these sudden magnetic disturbances .
The large increase in the number of magnetic observatories with instruments seemed to warrant this attempt , but great difficulty has been experienced because we have scarcely yet arrived at the state foreshadowed by GAUSS fifty years ago , " " when trustworthy and complete observations from all parts of the Earth shall be obtained For the complete solution of the problem , we require records from Africa , from the continents of North and South America , and from Siberia , similar to those which are already obtained in Europe and Asia .
In order to obtain some fair approximation to the changes of magnetic potential , necessary to give rise to the disturbances , I have collected photographic records of the traces given by the self-recording instruments for June 24th and 25th , , and for other more recent storms , from he observatories whose , positions are given in Table II .
The following tables give ( 1 ) the positions of these observatories , ( 2 ) the absolute values of the magnetic elements , ( 3 ) the comparative scale-values of the self-recording instruments for June 24th , 1885 , as far as it has been possible to arrive at hem ; ( 4 ) the values , in metric units , of certain magnetic .
From these it will SSOli W. G. ADAMS ON A COMPARISON OF SIMULTANEOUS be seen that the of the same type at the different observatories still have very different degrees of sensitiveness .
In some ) of the magnetic instruments have not been determined , especially in the case of vertical force instruments .
Hence the number of stations to which GAUSS'S method is applicable is very limited .
On June 24th , 1885 , a netic storm bsgan quite suddenly at 10.32 , Greenwich time , in which there were several well-marked features : At 3.48 , on June 25th , there was a sudden very great disturbance ; at 10.20 , there was another characteristic , but rather small disturbance , and a rger disturbance at 12.15 .
The storm continued until about 8 , on June 26th .
The values of certain sudden changes in the magnetic elements and the comparative scale-values of the self-recording instruments are given in Table , except in cases where they are too small , or where there are no means of determining them .
From this table it will be seen that at several European stations the sudden change in the horizontal force , at the beginning of f , he storm , is nearly the same ; also the change in the horizontal force at 3.48 , on June 25th , is nearly same in amount at European stations , and at Colaba and Batavia .
The disturbance at Toronto is very abnorma ] in all the magnetic elements , and far greater than at any other station .
In Plates 8 , and 9 , the curves have been carefully traced from the photographic , and set to Greenwich mean time , and grouped so as bring out prominently the common features from widely distant stations .
MAGNETIC DISTURBANCES AT SEVERAL 1.35 MAGNETIC AT SEVERAL OBSERVATORIES .
With regard to the scale values in Table III .
, we may note that the ] of H.F. and V.F. in metric units , for 1 mm. of height of scale , and the values of H.F. and V.F. in -second units for 1 cm .
of height of scale , are exPressed by the same number .
Thus , in the Kew curves , the values of H.F. and V.F. in metric units for 1 mm. of height of scale is 0005 unit , and the values of 1f.F .
and V.F. , for 1 cm .
of height of scale is in units .
Hence , in comparing past measurements in metric units , with 1 mm. for unit of height , with measurements in c.g.s. units , taking 1 .
cm .
as unit of height , there will be very little trouble , as the scale values in the two sets of units are expressed by the same number .
Hence , in future , it will be advisable for the sake of comparison , and , at the same time , more in accordance with the .
system of units , to state the scale values under the form , 1 cm .
c.g.s. units .
On comparing the traces for H.F. from different observatories ( see Plate 8 ) it will be seen that the trace from Stonyhurst shows what may at first be regarded as a very slight disturbance , and , at 3.48 , the maximum disturbance appears to be comparatively small , but from Table III .
, it will be seen that the actual disturbance is as large , or even larger , than at any other station except Toronto .
There is every reason to suppose that the trace at Stonyhurst would have shown the individual features of the storm quite as well as the Colaba , or the Kew , or the Lisbon traces , if the scale value , 0005 , had then been in use instead of the scale value , and the measurements could then have been made with much greater accuracy .
On the other hand , the vertical force magnetometer at Stonyhurst is very much more sensitive than that at any other station , and the trace is very similar in character to the St. Petersburg V.F. trace .
At 3.48 .
there is very little disturbance at Kew , and a small disturbance in V.F. at Stonyhurst , viz. , a fall of 001 metric unit .
The V.F. trace for Batavia is placed near to the Stonyhurst trace in Plate 8 , but , as is shown in Table III .
, the sudden fall in V.F. at Batavia , at 10.32 , on the 24th , is nearly four times as great ; and at 3.48 on the 25th , is more than four times the corresponding fall in V.F. at As Batavia is south of the equator , a diminution of the vertical force means a change in the direction of the needle corresponding to an increase of dip of the pole pointing towards the north ; hence , for comparison with stations in the northern nisphere , the Batavia .
trace inverted is also given in Plate 8 .
The disturbanct , in V.F. is very much smaller than the disturbance in H.F. , at all stations except Toronto , tavia , and Melbourne .
At Utrecht , the disturbance in V.F. nearly lesembles the disturbance in declination , and is much greater apparently than the V.F. disturbances at Wilhelmshaven , or at any other observatory in the north-west of Europe .
Unfortunately , the photographic paper on which the traces are taken is too narrow , and so the H.F. trace passes off the paper during the W. G. A DAAIS ON A PARISON OF great magnetic disturbances , but there is a great reseroblance between the traces given by the three Utrecht instruments .
This is due to the fact that the vertical force changes are given by means of deflecting magnets and iron induction bars to plan ; hence , the horizontal and vertical force needles are affected by in declination , and the vertical force trace is also affected by in horizontal force .
Thus the in horizontal force in metric units S where and are the changes in ordinates of horizontal force and declination expressed in millimetres .
If SZ be the increase of vertical force , and the change in the ordinate of the vertical force in Jetres , then .
Thus , at .
on June 24 , mm. , mm. and mm. Hence SX metric u1lit , and metric unit .
Plate 9 contains only traces of horizontal force for June 25 , 1885 , from mid-day until 8 P. .
From 2.10 .
there is a Iarge and continuous well-marked period of disturbance , beginning with an increase of force varying from 006 to 01 metric unit , followed by a decrease of very nearly the same amount at 3 Another similar period of disturbance , well-marked at Melbourne , Batavia , and Bombay , as well as throughout Europe , occurs between 5.30 .
and 6.30 .
on the same day .
The values of these changes in metric units are given in Table MAGNETIC DISTURBANCES AT SEVERAL OBSERVATORIES .
TABLE IV.\mdash ; Changes in Horizontal Force 011 ursb .
lVill ) elmshaven .
Utrecht ViennaKewSt .
Petersburg . .
isbon .
San ernando .
Colaba Melbourne At 6.20 P. 001 There is some little uncertainty as to the values at the four last stations in this table , because the measurements to be nJade are very small .
This reduces the lmber of observatories at which the Gaussian analysis can be applied with advantage to too small a number to determine the Gaussian coefficients for this storm .
Adms . .
1892 .
A.Fku 8 .

