Some Observations made in Mines , and at Sea , occasioning a Conjecture about the Origin of Wind : Imparted by the same Mr. C. One John Gill , a Man well experienced in Mineral affairs , discoursing with me about the Wind and its Origin ; declared to me his thoughts concerning the same , as a result of twenty years Experience and Observations of his own .
First , He affirmed , that if in digging deep under ground , the Work-men meet with Water , they never want Air or Wind ; but if they miss Water ( as sometimes it happens , even at 12 or 16 Fathoms depth ) they are destitute of convenient Air , either to breath in , or to make their Candles burn .
Next , When ( as usual ) there happens to be a great quantity of a Winters standing water , in a deep Mine , they commonly bring , or drive up an Adit for drawing away such water : But as soon as that part of the Level is made , that any of the standing Water begins to run away , the Men must secure themselves , as well as they can , from danger of being dashed in pieces against the sides of the Adit : For the included Air or Wind in the standing Water , breaks forth with such a terrible noise , as that of a Piece of Ordnance , and with that violence , as to carry all before it , loosening the very Rocks , though at some distance in the Work or Adit .
Thirdly , he hath observed on several occasions , going to and fro , between London and Plimouth , by Sea , that being in a Calm , that way , which the Sea began to Loom or move , the next day the Wind was sure to blow from that point of the Compass , towards which the Sea did Loom the day before .
An Account of Hail-Stones of an unusual bigness , Communicated by D. Nath .
Fairfax , with his Reflections on them .
This Account came but very lately to hand , though the thing happened a while ago ; the Ingenious Author thereof , having but newly entered into a Philosophical Correspondence with the Publisher .
July , 17 .
1666 .
About 10 in the Fore-noon , there fell a violent storm of Hail about the Coast-Towns of Suffolk , tracing along Seckford-Hall , Wood-bridge , Snape bridge , Aldborough , &amp;c. more to the North-ward .
The Hail was small near Yarmouth ; but at Seckford-Hall , one Hail-stone was found by measure to be 9 .
Inches about .
One of this Town ( viz Wood bridge ) found one at Melton .
8 .
Inches about .
At Snape-bridge a man affirmed , that he lighted on one about 12 .
Inches about .
A Lady of Friston-Hall , putting one of them into a Balance , found it weigh 12 s. 6 d. Several persons of good credit in Aldborough affirmed , some Hailstones to have been full as big as Turkeys-Eggs ; ( an ordinary Hens-Egg weighs but about 9 s. ) J. Baker of Rumborough , driving a Cart on the Heath by Aldborough , had his head broken by the knocks of them through a stiff Country-felt : In some places his head bled ; in others , bunnyes arose : The Horses were so pelted , that they hurried away his Cart beyond all command .
They seemed all white , smooth without , shining within .
It is somewhat strange , methinks , that their pillar of Air should keep them aloft , if they were not clapped together in the falling ; especially at such a time of the year , when the Air is less thickned and its

