II .
" On the Relation of Form and Dimensions to Weight of Material in the Construction of Iron-clad Ships .
" By E. J. REED , Chief Constructor of the Navy .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 3 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the Paper is to show that the proportion of length to breadth in a ship , and the form of her water-lines , should be made in a very great degree dependent upon the weight of the material of which her hull is to be constructed-that an armour-plated ship , for example , should be made of very different proportions and form from those of a ship without armour , and that as the extent and thickness of the armour to be carried by a ship are increased the proportions of length to breadth should be diminished , and the water-lines increased in fulness .
It is highly desirable that this subject should receive the attention of men of science , not only because it bears most directly upon both the cost and the efficiency of future iron-clad fleets , but also because it opens up a theoretical question which has hitherto , I believe , received absolutely no consideration from scientific writers upon the forms and resistances of ships , viz. the manner in which the weight of the material composing the hull should influence the form .
Prior to the design of the 'Bellerophon , ' the forms of ships were determined in complete disregard of this consideration ; and even the most recent works upon the subject incite the naval architect to aim always at approaching the form of least resistance .
The investigations given in the Paper show , however , that the adoption of a form of least resistance , or of small comparative resistance , may , in fact , lead to a lavish outlay upon our ships , and to a great sacrifice of efficiency ; while , on the other hand , the adoption of a form of greater resistance would contribute in certain classes of ships to greater economy and to superior efficiency .
306 [ Mar. 19 , In order to indicate clearly , but approximately only , the purpose in view , the author first considers the hypothetical cases of a long and a shorter ship , both of which are prismatic in a vertical sense .
The length of the long ship is seven times its breadth , and its horizontal sections consist of two triangles set base to base ; the length of the short ship is five times its breath , the middle portion being parallel for two-fifths of the length , and the ends being wedge-shaped .
It is assumed also that at a speed of 14 knots the long ship will give a constant of 600 , and the short ship a constant of 500 in the Admiralty formula , speed 3X mid .
section indicated horse-power The draught of water is in each case 25 feet , and the total depth 50 feet .
It is taken for granted that the form of the long ship has been found satisfactory for a ship of such scantlings that we may consider her built of iron of a uniform thickness of 6 inches , the top and bottom being weightless .
Now , let it be required to design a ship of equal speed , draught of water , and depth , but of such increased scantlings ( whether of hull proper or of armour ) that the weight shall be equivalent to a uniform thickness of 12 inches of iron , the top and bottom being weightless as before .
First , the new ship has the proportions of the long ship given to her ; and secondly , those of the shorter ship .
In each case the engines are supposed to develope seven times their nominal horse-power , and to weigh ( with boilers , water , &amp;c. ) 1 ton per nominal H.P. The coal-supply in each case equals the weight of the engines , so that both ships will steam the same distance at the same speed .
But as the equipment of the smaller ship will be less weighty than that of the larger ship , we will require the larger ship to carry 2000 tons , and the smaller 1500 tons additional weights .
Assuming the breadth extreme in each case to be the unknown , we can , from the Admiralty formula given above , deduce an expression for the Indicated Horse-Power ; thence , under the assumed conditions , the weights of engines and coals can be found ; and these being added to the weights of hull ( calculated on the assumption that the sides are of 12-inch iron ) , and to the weights carried , give an expression for the total displacement , in tons , of each ship .
Another expression is found for this displacement by finding the weight of water displaced .
The two expressions are equated , and a quadratic equation is formed , from which the breadth extreme is determined ; and from it all the other values can be found .
The accompanying Table shows the results obtained by this method for the two classes of ships:307 1868 .
] Shorter ship .
Length extreme ... ... ... ... . .
581 feet .
342 feet .
Breadth ... ... ... ... . .
83 , 68 , , Nominal horse-power ... ... ... .
1350 H.P. 1337 H.P. Indicated ... ... ... ... .
9450 , 9359 , , Weight of hull ... ... ... ... ... 12570 tons .
7576 tons .
, , engines ... ... ... ... 1350 , , 1337 , , , coals ... ... ... ... . .
1350 , , 1337 , , , , carried ... ... ... ... 2000 , 1500 , , Total displacement ... ... ... ... 17270 , 11750 , It will therefore be seen that , by adopting the proportions and form of the shorter ship , a ship of the required scantlings and speed will be obtained on a length of 342 feet and a breadth of 681 feet ; whereas if the proportions of the long ship are adopted , the ship , although of the same scantlings and speed only , will require to be 581 feet long and 83 feet broad , the steam-power in both cases being as nearly as possible the same .
Considerations of this character , worked out more fully , led the designer of the 'Bellerophon ' to depart so considerably from the form and proportions of the 'Warrior .
' The next part of the investigation is based upon the official reports of the measured mile trials of the 'Minotaur ' and ' Bellerophon ' when fully rigged , and upon calculations made from the drawings of those ships .
It is assumed that a prismatic vessel having the same mean draught as each of these ships , and having the same form and dimensions as the mean horizontal section ( which equals the mean displacement in cubic feet , divided by the mean draught of water ) , will give the same constant as the ship herself , at the assumed speed of 14 knots , which , as nearly as possible , equals the speed obtained by both the ' Minotaur ' and 'Bellerophon ' on the measured mile .
For each ship the weight of the armour and backing is supposed to be uniformly distributed over vertical prismatic sides of the dimensions of the armoured sides ; and the weight of hull is similarly distributed over vertical prismatic sides of the dimensions below water of the mean horizontal section , and above water of the armoured side .
The actual weights carried by the ships are thus transferred to what may be termed representative prismatic vessels , having the same constant of performance as the ships .
The detailed calculations in the Paper show that the weight per square foot of the material in the hulls of the two ships , when distributed over the sides of the representative prismatic vessels , is very nearly the same for both ; and the same holds with respect to the weight per square foot of armour and backing .
The 'Minotaur ' is rather heavier in both respects ; but , for the reasons given in the Paper , the means of the values found for the two ships are taken , and are found to be Weight per square foot of hull = 152 ton .
, , , , , , armour and backing =ll ton .
The questions next considered are these : presuming it to be necessar [ Mar. 19 , 308 to build another ship , which shall also steam 14 knots , carry the same proportionate supply of coal to engine-power and proportionate quantities of stores , but shall have her armour and backing of double the weight of armour and backing of the 'Bellerophon ' and ' Minotaur , ' then ( 1 ) what will be the size , engine-power , and cost of the new ship of the ' Minotaur ' type , and having the same mean draught and depth of armour ?
and ( 2 ) what will be the size , engine-power , &amp;c. , if built on the 'Bellerophon ' type , and having her mean draught and depth of armour ?
-this condition implying , of course , that the same constants of performance as before will be realized in each case .
On account of the great disproportion in size between the two types of ship , it is obvious that the smaller one will require much less weight of equipment .
It is assumed , therefore , that the additional weights of the smaller ship ( exclusive of engines , boilers , and coals ) amount to 700 tons , and those of the larger ship to 1000 tons .
The developed power of the engines , proportionate supply of coal , and the weight of engines &amp;c. are taken exactly the same as in the hypothetical case first given .
By proceeding with the investigation for each case in a way similar to that sketched for the hypothetical ships , only treating the breadth extreme of the mean horizontal sections of the new ships as the unknown , the following results are obtained .
The new ship of the ' Minotaur ' type which fulfils the required conditions will be nearly 490 feet long , 721 feet breadth extreme , and have a total displacement of 14,253 tons ; while the new ship of the 'Bellerophon ' type will be 380 feet long , 71 feet breadth extreme , and have a total displacement of 10,950 tons .
It thus becomes obvious that a correction is needed in the weight per square foot of hull in the new ship of the ' Minotaur ' type , as her length has been so greatly increased : it is considered that an increase of at least 10 per cent. is required ; and this is the allowance made .
On the other hand , the new ship of the 'Bellerophon ' type is still shorter than the ' Minotaur ' herself , and the displacement is not much greater than the actual displacement of the ' Minotaur ; so that no correction is needed in her weight per square foot of hull .
When the correction has been made for the new ship of the ' Minotaur ' type , the final results in round numbers are as follows for the two classes of ship : New ship of [ New ship of 'Minotaur ' type .
' Bellerophon'type .
Length ... ... ... ... ... . .
510 feet .
380 feet .
Breadth ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
75 , , 71 Tonnage ... ... ... ... ... ... 13770 tons .
8620 tons .
Nominal horse-power ... ... ... .
1080 H.P. 1080 H.P. Indicated ... ... .560 , , 7560 , , Weight of hull ... 7100 tons .
4460 tons .
, , armour and backing .
5190 , , 3630 , , , engines and coals ... .
2160 , , 2160 , , , stores carried ... .1000 , , 700 , Displacement ... ... ... ... 15450 , , 10950 , 2F Taking the cost per ton at ?
55 ( which is the average cost per ton of tonnage for the hulls of armour-clad ships ) , the saving made by adopting the new ship of the 'Bellerophon ' type would amount to ?
283,250 , or considerably more than a quarter of a million sterling .
It must also be considered that the ship of the 'Bellerophon ' type would cost less for maintenance and repair , and be much handier in action .
The last investigation in the Paper is purely theoretical , and consists of a determination of the dimensions which would be required in two ships of which the horizontal sections are curves of sines , and which are prismatic vertically , if they were built with the same weight per square foot of hull ( say 1 ton ) as the 'Bellerophon , ' but carried twice the weight of armour per square foot ( say -ton ) .
In these cases the bottom is taken to have weight as well as the sides ; the speed for both is 14 knots , the draught of water is 25 feet , and the depth of the armoured side 24 feet .
One of the ships is seven times her breadth in length , and the other is five times .
Professor Rankine 's rule for the calculation of horse-power and speed is employed ; and the same conditions of engines &amp;c. are assumed as have been indicated previously .
The larger ship carries 1350 tons additional weights , and the smaller 900 tons .
The results obtained for these ships are as follows , when expressed in round numbers : Larger ship .
Smaller ship .
Length ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
585 feet .
425 feet .
Breadth ... ... ... ... ... ... .
84 , 85 , Nominal horse-power ... ... ... .
1267 H.P. 980 H.P. Indicated , , ... ... . .
8890 , , 6860 , Weight of hull ... ... ... ... ... .
7586 tons .
5540 tons .
, , armour and backing. .
6124 , , 4470 , , , engines and coals ... .
2540 , , 1960 , , , carried ... ... ... 1350 , , 900 , Displacement ... ... ... ... ... .
17600 , , 12870 , These results are very different in detail from those obtained in the cases based on the actual trials of the 'Bellerophon ' and 'IMinotaur .
' The 2000 I-I.P .
which is needed by the larger ship above the power required by the smaller ship , is principally due to the difference between the immersed surfaces of the two ships , and is spent in overcoming friction .
The immersed midship sections , it will be remarked , only differ by a very small amount .
This last investigation serves to show that , the theoretical best form of ship being taken , and the most recent rule being applied in the calculations , the speed of 14 knots can be obtained in the short type of ship at a surprisingly less cost and size than the long type requires ; and this result agrees with that of the preceding investigation based on actual trials , 310 Mr. Reed on Iron-clad Ships .
[ Mar. 19 ,

