]\gt ; April 24 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The folIowing Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On a Pneumatic , Analogue of the Wheatstone Bridge By W. N. , Lecturer in Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Commumcated by LORD RAYLEIGH,.Sec .
R.S. Received March , 1890 .
When fluid flows steadily an orifice in a thin plate , the relation between the rate of flow , , measured in units of volume of fluid per second , and the head ( the work done on unit mass of the fluid during its passage ) may be expressed by the equation:\mdash ; where is a constant depending upon the area of the orifice , If the head be measured in units , is equal to , where is the acceleration of gl.avity , the area of the orifics , and coefficient of contraction of the vein of fluid , a factor which is independent of the rate of flow .
Let us suppose a current of incompressible fluid to be drawn in succession through two orifices , , arranged one at each end of a closed space , , so large that there is no appreciable difference of head betweon different parts of it and that the kinetic energy of the flow through the one orifice does not affect the flow through the other .
By the principle of continuity , the flow V will be the same through each of the orifices , and we have for the head between the two sides of the orifice of entry , , and for the head the two sides of the orifice of exit , , where and are corresponding constants for the two orifices .
From the definition of the term " " head it follows that is the total head between the outside of the second orifice and the outside of the first .
We may therefore regard and as partial heads which make up the total head .
We may suppose that the hoad is due to a constant manometric depression maintained in a second large closed space , , communicating with the first space , , by means of 1890 .
] A nalogue of the Wheatstone Bridge .
the second orifice .
If now we have a third closed space , , likewise provided with two orifices , , one of which , , communicates with the space A where the constant manometric depression is main , while the other , , is open to the same supply of fluid as that which feeds , we get a second flow , , which we may speak of as being in multiple arc with the first , and to which the following equations apply:\mdash ; and are the partial heads for the second flow , and the constants for the orifices respectively .
We have , therefore , an arrangement for the flow of fluid analogous to the arrangcment of the Wheatstone quadl.ilateral for the flow of electricity , the galvanometer circuit being supposed open .
The head corresponds to the electromotive force of the battel'y , and , correspond to the elecbric currents in the two branches ; , to the four electrical resistances ; the spaces take the places of the brass connecting blocks of a Post Office box or the copper connexion pieces of a metre bridge .
The partial heads , , correspond to the electromotive forces between the etlds of the four several wires .
Naking contact with a key in the galvanometer circuit would correspond to opening a tube of communication betwee ] ] the spaces , above mentioned , and the hydrodynamic condition corresponding to no current through the galvanometer would evidently be the condition of no flow of fluid through the tube , and bhe galvanometer must be represented by some apparatus for detecting a flow of fluid ; the detecbor need not , however , be designed to measure a flow any more than the galvanometer need be suitable for measuring a current .
The condition for no flow in the " " galvanometer\ldquo ; tube is that there should be no head between its ends ; this condition is satisfied if or ; from which it follows that the condition is entirely independent of the total head , , and depends only on the constants of the four ifices ; we have , in fact , the ordinary Wheatstone-bridge relation:\mdash ; If the coefficients of contraction may be assumed to be independent of the shape of the orifice , we get the condition for no flow through the " " galvanometer\ldquo ; tube :\mdash ; analogue is by no means difficult .
We require simply a " " source and a " " sink\ldquo ; communicating , the one with the other , by two pairs of apertures in two separate boxes , which must be of such a size that the kinetic energy of the enterlng sbreams is practically completely dissipated in the boxes .
The two boxes must also be connected by a tube in which there must be placed an apparatus for detecting the existence of a flow between the boxes .
The hydrodynamic analogue suggested itself to me in the course of the study of a number of problems in ventilation depending upon the flow of air between nearly-closed connected spaces , for example , adjoining rooms .
In such cases the differences of pressure which produce the flow are very minute , amounting perhaps to a few hundredths of an inch of water , and the corresponding variations in the density of air may be safely disregarded .
Under such circumstances the air will follow the laws of flow of an incompressible fluid , and equations identical with those quoted above will hold for the flow of air .
Measurements made upon the flow of air in order to determine the coefficient of contraction have been hitherto such as may be termed " " absolute\ldquo ; ; that is to say , the head and the flow have each been separately expressed in absolute measure and .
the value of determined by taking the ratio of the head to the square of the flow .
This process is exactly analogous to measuring the electrical resistance of a wire by finding the electromotive force between its ends and the current which flows tilong it .
M. Murgue , in a wol.k on ' The Theory and Practice of Centrifugal Ventilating Machines ' ( translated by A. L. Steavenson ) , has shown that the internal resistance of a centrifugal fam to the flow of air through it can be calculated from the effects produced on the flow by the size of a second orifice through which the air has to pass .
This process is evidently parallel to calculating the internal resistance of a battery by finding the eifect produced upon the current by varying the external resistance .
The development of the electrical analogy seems to aflord a novel method of comparing resistances to the motion of air , and of verifying the laws of flow , and one which requires only a detector and not an anemometer , and is independent of the constancy of the flow .
Whether it could be used practically to test the laws of flow and measure the pneumatic constants for various orifices to a higher degree of accuracy than has hitherto been attained , evidently depends upon the sensitiveness of the arrangement .
In order to try this , I have had constructed what may be called a pneumatic analogue of the Wheatstone Bridge .
It is represented in fig. 1 , and consists of three wooden boxes , 1890 .
Analogue of the Wl A is 4 , and and arc The ends of and B abut against the side of , as shown in figure ; between and A is a ectangular o , 1 in .
in a diaphragm , and between and A a opening , , 1 in .
in .
, in a similar diaphragm .
In the side of at is an adjustable slit , made by shutters sliding in cardboal 'd grooves , and at in the side of , opposite to , is a slit .
The tube collnecting , or " " galvanometer\ldquo ; tube , is a straight tube of glass , , of about inch diameter .
It can be closed at one end by a small trap-door , , in the interior of the box , which can be opened and shut by a steel wire , , passing through a cork in the top of .
The sensitivelless of the apparatus depends upon the indicator employed .
There many indicators might be employed ; the one I have tried and have found to work well consists of two very small parallel needles , stuck through a cap of elder-pith , supported on a small agate compass centre ; the needles carry very light mica vanes on one side of the centre , counterpoised by a small quantity of platinum .
The whole is balanced on the point of the finest needle I could obtain , and forms a very delicate wind vane .
When first mounted , the necdles always took up a position of equilibrium with the points 466 Mr. W. N. Shaw .
On Pneunatic [ Apr. 24 , @ northward , although they had not been intentionally magnetised , nor , indeed , exposed to any risk of their being so from the time of butthetimeofswingwasverylong , andthepositionofequilibriumtheirbeingpurchased .
Theywere'nodoubt , veryslightlymagnetised , not sufficiently definite .
I therefore magnetised them more strongly ; the little vane theri up , in consequence , a definite position of } ' equilibrium with the planes of the vanes approximately north and south .
The apparatus being so placed that the tube , , is east west , the vanes always set across the tube when there is no current .
The needle points enable the position of equilibrium to be clearly identified by the aid of a fiducial mark on the glass tnbe .
The sensitiveness can be altered as desired by an external control magnet , just as that of a galvanometer needle can be .
The little compass needle or wind vane , , is very sensitive to the motion of air in the tube , and although it may be possible to find other detectors that are equal , or even superior to it , yet the ease of seeing it , the rapidity of its action , and its definite are decidedly in its favour .
The head is produced by a gas in a metal chimney , , fitted to the lid of the box A. Various precautions are required in fitting the boxes together to secure that the air should only flow through apertures intended for its passage , but they need not here be detailed .
They consist mainly in the plentiful application of glue and brown paper .
The apparatus was designed lvhen I was making a number of observations of flow of air to illustrate the theory of ventilation , and I did not anticipate that any high degree of accuracy could be aimed at .
I was , therefore , agreeably surprised to find that the idenbfficabion of the condition of no flow is capable of much greater accuracy than the arrangements for measuring the areas of the orifices would allow ms to interpret .
Of the four apertures of the bridge , two , viz. , and , are inaccessible without pulling the arrangement to pieces ; they represent areas of .
in .
and 1 sq .
in .
, respectively , as accurately as a knife could cut them in cardboard .
The other two areas , and , are made by sliding shutters , as already mentioned .
Their edges were cut with a knife , and they probably are only rough approximations to areas in a truly thin plate , so that little importance can be attached to the final results of the measurements which will be given below ; they serve only to show that the width of the adjustable slit , when there is no flow through the galvanometer tube , is a perfectly definite magnitude .
The following observations have been taken with the apparatus:\mdash ; 1890 .
] Analogue of the Wheatstone Bridge .
I. To Verify the Law of Proportionality of Areas , As already stated , sq .
in .
, sq .
in .
, so that if the law holds should be found to be equal to .
In testing the proportionality , was made successively equal to .
in .
, by the use of a cardboard wedge , 343 mm. length of which corresponds to 1 in .
breadth ; and was adjusted till there was no flow through the galvanometer tube , and the width meastlred by means of the cardboard wedgc .
The measurements were referled directly to an inch scale by parallel-jaw callipers .
The observations are containsd in the following table:\mdash ; Table I. The differences in the ratios for different values of are considerable , but it must be remembered that the greatest fractional diiference , being of the wholc , would be accounted for by an error of of an inch in the adjustment of to inch , and a cardboard slit , cut with a knife , can hardly be expected to reach beyond that limit of accuracy .
It is evident , from the readings given , that the condition of no flow is capable of very accurate imental definition with the little compass detector .
II .
Verification of the Inference that the Condition of No Flow is Independent of the Total Head .
This has only been carried so far as to determinc whether , when the adjustment of areas was made , the equilibrium could be dis* The readings in this column were taken by means of a different and wider wedge .
Analogue of the Wheatstone Bridge .
[ Apr. 24 , arranged by altering the quantity of gas burning in the jet .
No difference was , however , observed in the position of equilibrium of the needle , whether the gas was quite low , or on full , or turned out , leaving only the head due to the heat of the metal chimney .
So far as could be tested in this manner , one of the advantages of the Wheatstone bridge , , that the }ment is independent of the ectromo.tive force , is correctly followed in the pneumatic analogue .
* III .
nparison of a Circular with a Rectangular Aperture .
A circular aperture in a brass plate , one-sixteenth of an inch thick , was balanced against a rectangular one , formsd by sliding card- board shutters .
The circle was turned to be 1 inch in diameter , and the inner edge of the aperture was bevelled .
The observations , when the circle was in the position , were\mdash ; sq , Readings for Mean , 490 .
Whence sq .
in .
When the circle was in the position sq .
in .
Readings for Mean , Whence sq .
in .
The observations were repeated with similar results .
These two values of the ratio would be reconciled by assuming that the circular aperture was only equivalent to a rectangle whose area is of the cular aperture , and they , therefore , throw doubt upon the idea that circular and square apertures hav ' the same coefficient of contraction , but the rectangular apertures were flow of air through .
an aperture ) of 1 .
in .
amounts to about 2 cubic feet per minute when the gas is very low , and to 4 feet per mmute when it18 on , so that the head can be changed in a ratio of about 4 : 1 .
1890 .
] Effect of Tension upon Magnetic Changes of .
469 nob such close to orifices in truly thin plates as to rant the acceptance of this result without apparatus of more elaborate construction .
Moreover , there is a possibility of leak in ooves of the , which ought not to be observations are , however , sufficient to show that a properIy constructed apparatus is capable of ; of the effective areas of orifices with a very able d of precision .
It is well known that if the orifice be not an apel.ture in a thin plate , but the form of a tube , straigl or bent , the fiow through the orifice can be represented by an equation of the form as if the Ol'ificewel.e a thin plate aperture , .
:\mdash ; but in { he case of a more complicated orifics cannot be so easily calculated from the dimensions ; the value of might , however , be determined experimentally for all orifice of any shape and dimensions by a pneumatic ] ) ridge of suitable size , and the result might be expressed , as M. suggests for the case of mines in the work alrcady referred to , by the area of the thin plate to the given orifice is equivalent .
comparison of calculated valnes of with observed values obtained by a pneumatic wonld enable us to determine a number of pneumatic conthat are at present only comparatively tained , such , for instance , as the coefficient of .
friction tubes of diameters , the constants of different forms of ol'ifice , the effect of and elbows in pipes , and of gauze or it would not , I think , be difficult to the apatus such a way as to determine the of resistance of a disc to the passage of air and its variation with velocity .
velocity can be increased to any extent that may be necessary by using a fan to produce the head instead of the gas burllcr .
I am intending , if possible , 10 have my present npparatus altered in some of its details , so that the orifices may be more definitely expressed in terms of thin plate ires , and then to use it for the determination of some of the pneumatic I to .
II .
" " On Effect of Tension upon netic Changes of Length in of Irou , Nickel , and Cobalt By sHEjLFoItD BIDWELL , M.A. , F.R.S. Received Apri18 , 1890 .
Preliminary .
A former communication to the Boyal Society Roy .
Soc. Proc No. 243 , 1886 , p. 257 ) contains an account of some experiments relating to the magne , tic extensions and contractions of iron wires

