]\gt ; Thae Flow of Electricity through Dielectrics .
By SPENCER W. RICHARDSON , .
( Camb .
) , D.Sc .
( Lond. ) , formerly Principal of , and Professor of Physics at , the University College , Southampton .
( Communicated by Prof. A. Schuster , Sec. R.S. Received September 4 , 1915 .
( From the Davy Faraday Laboratory of the Royal Institution .
) Curie , * Hopkinson , and other observers have shown that when a condenser is charged by means of a battery of constant electromotive force the charging current diminishes as the time of charging increases .
Results obtained by me when the dielectric consisted of glass , paraffin , ebonite , quartz and Iceland spar are in agreement with this conclusion .
I have also found that if ( during charging ) the applied electromotive force , , is suddenly reduced to ( say ) , then , provided that is greater than a certain value , a current flows through the specimen in the same direction as the original charging current , but that if is less than a current flows for some time ) in the opposite direction to the charging current .
I have taken to be a measure of the electromotive force of polarisation of the dielectric in the given conditions .
increases with the time of charging , very rapidly at first , but more slowly afterwards .
I have calculated the rate at which the charge is ttccumulating in a specimen of quartz , cut perpendicular to the optical axis , and a specimen of Iceland spar , cut parallel to a cleavage plane ( of known areas and thicknesses ) , from the data iven by me in a paper entitled ' ' Some Experiments on the Properties of Dielectrics published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' of October , 1915 .
A relation between these various quantities can be obtained which enables Ihe true electrical resistance of the specimens to be determined .
For if\mdash ; charging current , applied electromotive force , electromotive force of polarisation of the dielectric , rate at which the charge is accumulating in the dielectric , then we have .
where is the true electrical resistance of the specimen .
* ' Annalea de Chimie et de Physique ' ( 1889 ) .
'Phil .
Trans. ' ( 1897 ) .
Dr. S. W. Richardson .
In the case of the specimen of quartz the values of obtained in this way , for times of charging varying from 10.seconds to 20 minutes .
are in general agreement .
The results for Iceland spar seem to indicate a diminution in the value of as the time of increases .
This apparent diminution , however , may be due to inaccuracies in one or more of the series of results upon which the calculations are based .
In the paper referred to above I have shown how small quantities of electricity escaping from a dielectric during discharge can be measured .
To measure the charging current the same apparatus has been used .
On6 surface of the specimen was connected to the battery , the other surface ( and the electrometer and subsidiary condenser ) being to earth .
When the current had been flowing for a time this surface was disconnected from the earth , and at a later time it was disconnected from the electrometer and subsidiary condenser .
The quantity of electricity which had accumulated in the subsidiary condenser was measured as in the previous experiments .
Then we have where represents the value of the charging current after it has been flowing for a time .
To obtain the electromotive force of polarisation a second battery and a potential divider were used , and the subsidiary condenser was dispensed with .
The apparatus was set up as shown in .
The current was first caused to flow the specimen , and the direction of the movement of the line of light on the scale when was operated was noted .
Both surfaces of the specimen were then connected to the earth until all The Flow of Electricity Dielectrics .
trace of previous ch.arging had disappeared .
The battery I was then connected to one surface of the specimen for a given time .
The sliders , having been clamped together in such a way that K2 and could be operated in succession by one movement of the hand , were pulled rapidly across the frame and the movement of the line of light was noted .
This experiment was repeated for different values of until the line of light remained stationary for an appreciable time after the sliders had been pulled across the frame .
The difference of potential between and was then measured with an accurate voltmeter .
This difference of potential is equal to the electromotive force of polarisation of the dielectric in the given conditions .
The results obtained for a specimen of quartz cut perpendicular to the optical axis , at C. , and for a specimen of Iceland spar cut parallel to a cleavage plane , at C. , are given below .
The Flow of Electricity through Dielectrics .
The area of the silvered surface being 29 sq .
cm .
and the thickness of the specimen cm .
, the specific resistance , , is obtained from the relation:\mdash ; Motion of a Stream of Finite ) past a Body .
The area of the silvered surface being sq .
cm .
and the thickness of the specimen cm .
, The lIotion of a Stream of Finite Depth past Body .
By ROBERT JONES , .
( 1851 Exhibition Scholar of the University of North Wales , ) .
( Communicated by Dr. R. T. Glazebrook , C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1915 .
) When a circular cylinder moves uniformly in an ideal fluid ( i.e. frictionless and incompressible ) at rest at infinity , the resultant force acting on it is zero , if no external forces act .
This is , however , only true when the mation is the usual potential motion .
Supposing that in addition to the potential stream produced by the motion of the cylinder a circulation it be considel.ed , velocity of the fluid is increased on the one side , and decreased on the other , and this produces a force acting on the cylinder ) endicuiar to the ffirection of motion .
* Kutta has applied this method of considering the motion of an infinite fluid to determine the thrust on a lamina , and systems of }inae , plane and circular .
The cyclic constant of the circulation he leaves arbitrary , and , 'Hydrodynamics , ' pp. 74 and ( 1906 ) .
Lanchester , nnmics , ' Chap. Kutta , : ' Uber eine mit den Grundlagen des Flugproblems in Beziehung end Zweidimensionale Stromung 'Sitzungsberichte .
Bayerischen Akademie .
Wissenschaften , Phys. Klasse , ' Jahrgang 1910 , 2 Abhandlung .
V0L .
XCII .

