III .
" On the Conistruction of a new Calorimeter for determining the Radiatin-g Powers of Surfaces , and its application to the Surfaces of various Mineral Substances .
" By W. HOPKINS , Esq. , M.A. , FIR .
S. , &amp;c. Received June 1 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) When the author 's Memoir on the Conduietivity of various suWbstances was presented to the Society , it was intimated to him on the part of the Council of the Society , that it might be advisable to determine absolute instead of relative conductivities , the latter only having been attempted in his previous experiments .
It is partly in consequence of this intimation , and partly from the desire to make his former investigations more complete , that the author has given his attention to the construction of a calorimeter which might serve for this purpose .
His presenit memoir contains a description of this instrument , with the results obtained from its application to the surfaces of various substances .
The apparatuLs used by Messrs. Dulong and Petit was more delicate and complete than the simpler instrument devised by the author of this paper , but it was calculated only to determine the radiating powers of substances of which the bulb of a thermometer could be conistructed , or with which it could be delicately coated .
The only substances to which , in fact , it was applied , were glass and silver , the radiation taking place , in the first case , from the naked bulb of the thermometer , and , in the second , from the same bulb coated with silver paper .
In these cases , too , it was the whole heat radiating in a given time from the instrument , and not that which radiated from a given area , that was determined .
For this latter purpose the apparatus was not well calculated , on account of the difficulty of obtaining with accuracy the area of the surface from which radiation took place .
The instrument here described can be easily applied to any plane radiating surface , while the area of that surface can be easily determined to any required degree of accuracy .
The quantity of heat radiating under given conditions , from a unit of surface in a unit of time , cani thus be easily ascertained .
The paper contains a detailed description of the instrument , and of the experiments made with it .
The following are experimental results thus obtained , the uniit of heat being that quantity of heat which would raise 1000 grs. of distilled water I ' Centigrade .
The formula is that of Dulong and Petit , where 0= temperature of the surrounding medium ( the air in these experiments ) , expressed in Centigrade degrees ; t= the excess of the temperature of the radiating surface above that of the surrounding medium , in Centigrade degrees ; p= pressure of the surrounding medium ( the atmosphere in these experiments ) , expressed by the height of the barometer in metres ; a= 1X0077 , a numerical quantity which is always the same for all radiating surfaces and surrounding media .
Then if Q denote the quantity of heat , expressed numerically , which radiates from a unit of surface ( a square foot ) in a unit of time ( one minute ) , we have the following results for the substances specified:e Glass .
Q_ 9 566 ao(atI1)+ 03720 tl 23 Dry Chalk .
8-613 a0(at_1 )+ 03720 tl'233 Dry New Red Sandstone .
Q= 8-377 a0(at 1)+ 03720 Pt23 Sandstone ( buiilding stone ) .
Q= 8-882 a0(at-+1 ) ?
03720 tj 3 Polished Limestone .
Q= 9 106 aO(at1 )+ *03720 ( 45 ) tl'211 Unpolished Limestone ( same block as the last ) Q , l-2n808 aO(at1 1)+ ( )3720( i ) I'5 2 3 ,

