Account of Experiments made with an Invariable Pendulum at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , and at Port Bowen , on the eastern side of Prince Regent 's Inlet .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read April 6 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part IV .
p. 1 .
] The author , in the prefatory introduction to this paper , states first of all his own previous experiments made by Captain Hall and himself , on the South American station ; he then describes minutely the nature of the experiments contained in this communication ; the instruments employed ; the precautions used ; and the method pursued in calculating their results .
The experiments comprise three distinct series .
The first made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , before his departure with Captain Parry for the North Western Expedition , in which it will suffice to remark , that all the adjustments and precautions recommended by Captain Kater in his paper of 1819 were strictly adhered to .
In addition to which , observations were made , not only of the disappearances of one pendulum behind the other , but also of its reappearances , as recommended by Captain Sabine ; methods which , he observes , as far as the deduction of the acceleration of the penduhlum when compared at different stations is coilcerned , give results perfectly identical , as he shows by actual comparison of his own final numbers .
The second series of experiments were made at Port Bowen , where the ships of the North WesternExpedition wintered from 1824 to 1825 , The observatory was erected near the harbour , 100 feet above the sea , on secondary limestone , on a hard frozen soil , and the locality is very minutely described .
The apartment in which the observations were conducted was thickly lined with fearnaught cloth , At first it was attempted to warm it by a stove ; but the fluctuations of temperature so produced proved too great , and the stove was therefore removed outside , and the observatory warmed by the smoke-pipe ; while the whole apparatus was fenced from draughts of air and sudden change of temperature by a large envelope of fearnaught lined with racoon skins .
These precautions proved so effectual , that the total change of temperature during the observation was seldom more than 30 , and frequently not 1 ?
, from 50 ?
; while by a Six 's self-registering thermometer , the mean range of temperature , in 24 hours , to which the pendulum was exposed , was only 8 ?
, and the extreme 12 ?
; while that of the atmosphere varied from 23 ?
to 47 ?
irregularly .
During the whole of these observations , every precaution was used to secure and examine the stability of the whole apparatus , and that with perfect success , The time was determined by transits of the sun , Arcturus , and a Lyrae .
The clock was one belonging to the Royal Society , fitted with a gridiron pendulum , suspended on knife edges .
The transit instrument was of 30 inches focus and 2 inches aperture , cemented by plaster of Paris to a large stone placed on a cask full of sand .
A second distinct series of observations , under very favourable circumstancesof weather , was made in July , the results of which differ only one tenth of a vibration in 24 hours from those in June ; and a mean of both , according to the number of factors in each series , gives the number of vibrations for Port Bowen .
The third experiment was made at Greenwich , on the return of the Expedition in November , 1825 .
The number of vibrations in 24 hours derived from it , differed 0 24 of a vibration from that concluded from the first experiment , and this difference was maintained on repetition .
The author attributes this to wear of the knife edges , a fine line of metal being visible on the agate planes supporting them .
Supposing this wear uniform , the author takes the mean of the two determinations to compare with that at Port Bowen .
He concludes his introduction by a justly merited acknowledgement of the efficient cooperation afforded by the commander of the Expedition throughout the whole of these researches .
The remainder of this communication consists of an ample and very minute and regular detail of the series of observations .
They commence with the first experiments at Greenwich , which continued from the 20th to the 25th of April , 1824 .
The time here has been deduced by comparison of the pendulum clock with that of the transit room of .
the Observatory .
A table is given of these comparisons , reguu larly made before and after each observation of coincidences , and is followed by a table of the dedvuced rates of the former clock .
Tables are next given of the observed coincidences , noting the times of the disappearance and reappearance , and their mean for each of ten coincidences , the arcs of vibration , the mean arc , the intervals in seconds , and the corrections for the arcs of vibration ; and summed up at the end of each observation , so as to give the mean intervals ; the number of vibrations in 24 hours , as observed and as corrected for the arc ; the state of the barometer and thermometers is also given at the beginning and end of each observation , which were continued twice a day to the 25th .
The whole of the observations are then summed up in one table , and these are then reduced for the rate of the clock , and presented together in a table of results ; after taking the mean of which , the proper corrections for buoyancy and elevation above the level of the sea are applied to the result .
The same system of registering is followed in the experiments at Port Bowen ; only that here the observations of the transits by which the rate of the clock is determined are prefixed , and the hygrometric state of the atmosphere is also quoted in each observation of coincidences .
The observations of coincidences set down in the first series extend from June 14th to June 23rd , and were repeated four times a day .
T'he rates of the clock , as deduced separately from the sun and stars , are talulated , and the results separately computed for each .
In each coincidence , the number of transit observations on which the time depends , multiplied by the interval in days between them , is regarded as a factor , and the sum of these factors is taken to express the weight of the mean determination .
The mean of these determinations , according to their weight , is then taken , and the corrections applied as usual for buoyancy , and for geological and local situation .
The second series at Port Bowen extends from July 6 to July 10 ; but the arrangement of the observations being in all respects similar to that just stated , need not be repeated .
The third experiment at Greenlwich is stated in a manner precisely similar to the first , and continued four days , each of ten coincidences being observed twice a day .
The general results may be suimned up as follows : At Greenwich , the number of vibrations per diem , all corrections made , = 86159-368 ; at Port Bowen , = 86230-172 .
'he latitude of Greenwich is well known .
The observations for that of Port Bowen are not given here , but that element is assumed from observations stated in the Appendix to Captain Parry 's third voyage .
Computing on it , the author obtains an ellipticity of 3-.rand an equatorial pendulum of 39-009805 inches .
These are by the method of disappearances , the difference between these and the results obtained by reappearances is insensible .

