I. " On the Conditions for the existence of Three Equal Roots , or of Two Pairs of Equal Roots of a Binary Quartic or Quintic .
" By A. CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received November 26 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) In considering the conditions for the existence of given systems of equalities between the roots of an equation , we obtain some very interesting examples of the composition of relations .
A relation is either onefold , expressed by a single equation U= 0 , or it is , say , k-fold , expressed by a system of k or more equations .
Of course , as regards onefold relations , the theory of the composition is well known : the relation UV=0 is a relation compounded of the relations U=O , V=0O ; that is , it is a relation satisfied if , and not satisfied unless one or the other of the two component relations is satisfied .
The like notion of composition applies to relations in general ; viz. , the compound relation is a relation satisfied if , and not not satisfied unless one or the other of the two component relations is satisfied .
The author purposely refrains at present from any further discussion of the theory of composition .
The conditions for the existence of given systems of equalities between the roots of an equation furnish instances of such composition ; in fact , if we express that the function ( *aXx , y)n , and its first-derived function in regard to x , or , what is the same thing , the first-derived functions in regard to x , y respectively , have a common quadric factor , we obtain between the coefficients a certain twofold relation , which implies either that the equation ( *3x , y)'-=O has three equal roots , or else that it has two pairs of equal roots ; that is , the relation in question is satisfied if , and it is not satisfied unless there is satisfied either the relation for the existence of three equal roots , or else the relation for the existence of two pairs of equal roots ; or the relation for the quadric factor is compounded of the last-mentioned two relations .
The relation for the quadric factor , for any value whatever of n , is at once seen to be expressible by means of an oblong matrix , giving rise to a series of determinants which are each to be put =0 ; the relation for three equal roots and that for two pairs of equal roots in the particular cases n=4 and n=5 , are given in the author 's " Memoir on the Conditions for the existence of given Systems of Equalities between the roots of an Equation , " Phil. Trans. t. cxlvii .
( 1857 ) , pp. 727-731 ; and he proposes in the present Memoir to exhibit , for the cases in question n=4 and n =5 , the connexion between the compound relation for the quadric factor and the component relations for the three equal roots and for the two pairs of equal roots respectively .

