H Fig:6 .
III I HIM AEGD Fig:7 .
AB Fig:5 .
Fig:9 .
Fig:4 .
E C D IV .
An Account of the Tubera Terrae , or Truffles found at Rushton in Northamptonshire ; with some Remarks thereon .
By Tancred Robinson , M. D. and R.S.S. SIR , THE Tubera Terrae ( which you was pleased to send me , together with a Draught of them drawn with your own Pencil ) observed lately at Rushton in Northamptonshire , by that curious and learned Gentleman Mr. Hatton , are indeed the true French Truffles , the Italian Tartuffi or Tartuffole , and the Spanish Turmas de Tiera , which are not noted by Mr Ray to be found in our British Soil .
I have seen them thrice as large at Florence , Rome and Naples , where they eat them as a delicious and luxurious piece of Dainty , either fried in slices with Butter or Oil , Salt and Pepper ; or else out of Pickle , and often boiled in their Soup .
Of these there are three or four Species mentioned by Matthiolus , Imperati , J. Bauhine and Mentzelius .
These observed in England are all included in a studded Bark or Coat , the Tubercules resembling the Capsules or Seed-Vessels of some Mallows and Alcea 's ; the inward substance is of the consistence of the fleshy part in a young Chesnut , of a paste Colour , of a rank or hircine Odour , and unsavoury , streaked with many white Veins or Threads , as in some Animals Testicles ; the whole is of a globose Figure , though unequal and chinky .
V.Fig.4 .
V.Fig.5 .
What these Trubs are , neither the Ancients nor Moderns have clearly informed us ; some will have them Callosities , or Warts bred in the Earth : Others call them subterraneous Mushrooms .
If you could ever find Vestigia or Marks of a Stalk , or of Fibres , or Capillaments about their outsides , I should be then almost tempted to guess , that they are the Product of some Bulbose or Tuberose Plant , perhaps a Satyrion or Orchis , or some other Root of that numerous Tribe , many of which have a Seminal Smell .
I conjecture that these Tubera Terrae were found after the late Thunder and Rains ; for some of the Ancients called them Ceraunia , to which Juvenal seems to allude , Sat. V. Post hune raduntur Tubera , si ver Tunc erit , &amp; facient optata tonitrua caenas Majores : tibi habe frumentum , Alledius inquit O Libye : disjunge boves , dum tubera mittas .
They are most tender in the Spring ; though after Showers and sultry Weather they may be plentifully found in the Autumn : the Wet swells them , and Lightning may dispose them to send forth their particular Scent so alluring to the Swine .
Ludovicus Romanus , Navigat .
Lib.1 .
cap. 7 .
affirms , That Thirty Camels Load of these Truffles or Trubs brought from Armenia and Asia Minor have been all sold at Damascus in two or three days .
The manner of finding and rooting them up may be read in Mr. Ray 's Itinerary of Italy , p. 403 , 404 .
and in his Catal. Stirpium Exot .
at the end of his Travels , p. 109 .
I need not tell you the Uses to which the Greeks and Romans applied these Vegetable Bodies , nor how they are dressed and eaten at this day .
Pliny , Martial , Plutarch , Athenaeus , Galen , Apicius , &amp;c. may be consulted for the first ; Nonnus , Bruyerinus , Ciccarellus , &amp;c. for the last .
POSTSCRIP T. AFter the writing of the foregoing Letter , I received Intelligence , that Mr. Hatton observed Fibres issuing out of some of these Tubera , which lay Spit deep under ground ; so that perhaps they may be Plantae sui generis , and their sulcated Papillae analogous to , if not SeedVessels .
You know several Vegetables bear their Seed near the Root , as the Trifolium subterraneum tricoccum reticulatum flosculis longis albis ; most of the Arachydna 's , and some other Legumes , which flower above , but seed under ground .
As to the Truffles lying so deep , that is common to many Roots that shoot up Stalks above the Earth .
To instance only in that Lathyrus tuberosus , called commonly chamaebalanus and Terrae Glandes ; in English , Pease-Earthnut , dug up and eaten by the poor People , Non nisi alta fossione inveniendae , says John Bauhine .
But for a clear History of these , our Judicious Mr. Ray may be consulted , Histor .
Plant .
Vol. 1 .
p. 895 , 899 , 918,919 , 942 .
~ .
Fig.4 .
The Roots of our Bulbocastanum ( of the Umbelliferous Tribe ) commonly called Kepper-Nuts , Pignuts and Gernuts in the North , lie very deep , and fatten Hogs , which are very greedy of them .
I have often observed the Shepherds and Boys in Yorkshire digging them up for a delicate Dish : Perhaps this is the Nucula Terrestris Septentrionalium of Lobel , and the Apios of Turner .
Fleetstreet , Aug. 29 .
Yours , &amp;c. 169 3 .
Tancred Robinson .

