I. An Account of the Scarabaeus Galeatus Pulsator , or the Death Watch , by Mr. Hugh Stackhouse .
Communicated by John Harwood , L. L. D. R. S. S. AS I stood thoughtful in my Study , on the 16th of May , 1724 , I happened to hear , what is commonly called the Death Watch , very near , as I thought , to the Place where I then stood : This brought into my Mind , what I had formerly read in the Philosophical Transactions , for the Month of October , 1698 , of the Scarabaeus Galeatus Pulsator , found , and described , by Mr. Benjamin Allen .
While I was thinking upon the Account there given , I fancied I heard the Beatings somewhat stronger than before , which encouraged me to search after it ; I thereupon removed my Station to another Part of the Room , and soon discovered , that I had passed the Place where the Beatings were ; upon which , I concluded , that it lay somewhere betwixt my two Stations ; I therefore removed , and placed myself about the middle Distance ; where , though the Beatings did not repeat so frequently as before , yet when they did , I found I was still nearer 'em .
While I stood in this Place , I fancied it was over my Head , toward the Ceiling of the Room ; upon this , I got upon a Chair , that had a Sedge Bottom , and stood to the Wall just before me ; but standing there for some time , I could hear no Beatings at all .
I then stepped down from the Chair , and after I had stood still for some time , the Beatings began again ; this made me conjecture , that they might be about the Chair , and that my standing upon it might prevent them .
Upon inclining my Head down toward the Chair , I found I was still nearer and nearer to the Sound , and , at last , placing my Ear close to the Sedge Bottom of the Chair , I discovered that it was still further towards the Ground : Upon that , I turned the Chair 's Bottom upwards , but heard no Beatings for a considerable time after ; at length , they began again , and , as I cast a diligent Eye over the Bottom of the Chair , I happened , at last , to hit luckily upon the Place where the Insect was beating ; so that it discovered itself to me by its own Pulsations .
I was very much pleased with the Discovery , and not only stood viewing it beat for some time , but also afterwards called up others to see it beat , which they did , and that , not without Admiration .
The Manner of its Beating was thus .
It lifted up itself upon its hinder Legs , and somewhat extending , or rather inclining its Neck , beat down its Face upon the Sedge , with great Force and Agility ; the Sedge , upon which I found it , was bared of its outward Coat , for about the Length of half an Inch ; the Insect stood upon the inward bulbous Part , and beat upon the outward Coat , as if it had been working it off as it went ; the Impressions of its Strokes were very visible , the Coat of the Sedge being depressed , where it had beaten , for about the Compass of a silver Penny ; whether it beat for Exercise , or Food sake , I cannot certainly say ; but very probably it might be for the latter ; and I am rather inclined to think so , because there were more than one such Places upon the Sedge , where it had been at work , and where , it is likely , it might have been a Sojourner for some Days .
As to what the ingenious Mr. Derham of Upmin ster has observed , that the Beatings are a sort of Prelude for Copulation , I could not discover that this Beetle had any other of the same Species near it ; and therefore I am inclined to think , that it beat for the Preparation of its Food , at this time , at least , whatsoever it might do at other times , for Pleasure .
The Description Mr. Allen gives of the Insect , as referred to above , forasmuch as I can find by this ( which I took from the Chair where I found it , into a Box ) is very true : It is about a Quarter of an Inch in length , of a dark , dirty Colour , having a broad Galea , or Helmet , over its Head ; under which , when quiet , it draws up its Head ; so that this Galea is , when this Insect rests , a very notable and providential Defence against such Falls , as are frequent in rotten and decayed Places , in which , it should seem , this Insect is very much conversant .
The second Day after I took it , I opened the Box wherein it was , and set it in the Sun : The Insect was soon very brisk , and crept backwards and forwards along the Pieces of Sedge , and rotten Wood , that I had put with it into the Box , till at length getting to the End of one of the Pieces , it immediately struck out its Wings , and was just going to take its Farewell ; but having the Lid of the Box ready in my Hand , I shaded it over , and it soon drew in its Wings , and was very quiet .
I could not before perceive , though I had the Use of a tolerable good Glass , any the least Sign of a Fissure upon its Back ; and , for that Reason , did greatly question , whether it had any Wings or not , till I set it , as above , in the Sun .
The Head of the Insect appears to be of a very fine Contexture , as it is seen , when it creeps about , and stretches it forward ; but when it is drawn up under its Galea , it seems to be covered with a Membrane thick set with fine Hairs .
It lived with me about a Fortnight , but I could never perceive that it beat , after it was confined in the Box .

