1871 .
] Measurements of Specific Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics .
285 Hence I e-nu^+xu a2-f =c cos ax ; putting x=0 , f ' ' e_ J ./ \#151 ; CO ~nu2du a2 c \#166 ; \#163 ; V i V \#187 ; Integrating this equation , and choosing the arbitrary constant so that c may vanish when n is infinite , V 7rea2 " f Vi a2n Hence we shall have * ' ' " ~nu2+xudu \#163 ; a2-\-u2 =2 Vtt cos j f-aV2 , \#171 ; / a/ :t which last integral is exceedingly well known .
It is manifest that we can 00 e""nu2^'xudu reduce the integral I '~a2r^.U2r ' thi* by the method of partial fractions .
In concluding this paper , I desire to express the obligations I am under to Spitzer 's * Studien .
' II .
" Measurements of Specific Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics , in the Physical Laboratory , of the University of Glasgow .
" By John C. Gibson , M.A. , and Thomas Barclay , M.A. Communicated by Sir William Thomson .
Received November 23 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) This paper describes the instruments and processes employed in a series of experiments on the specific inductive capacity of paraffine , and the effect upon it of variations of temperature .
The instruments described are the platymeter and the sliding condenser .
The former of these was , in a rudimentary form , shown to the Mathematical and Physical Section of the British Association at its Glasgow Meeting in 1855 , by W. Thomson .
It consists of two equal and similar condensers employed for the comparison of electrostatic capacities .
The sliding condenser is a condenser the capacity of which may be varied by known quantities by altering the effective area of the opposed surfaces .
By means of these two instruments , along with the quadrant electrometer , the capacity of a condenser may be determined by equalizing the sliding condenser to it .
The method of working , and the electrical actions upon which it depends , are described in detail .
In The Rev. Canon Moseley on the [ Feb. 2 , order to determine the capacity of the sliding condenser at the lower extremity of its range , a spherical condenser , so constructed that its capacity could be accurately determined in absolute measure , was employed .
An apparent discrepancy in the results obtained , arising from an inequality in .
the condensers forming the platymeter , is then considered , and the method of deducing the true result investigated .
A series of experiments is then described which gave 1*975 as the specific inductive capacity of paraffine , that of air being taken as unity , but failed to show whether this alters with variations of temperature .
An improved form of condenser , composed of concentric brass cylinders with paraffine for the dielectric , and the results obtained from it , are then described .
The measurements made at different temperatures show no variation of .
specific inductive capacity .
In order to allow to the paraffine freedom of expansion with temperature , another form of condenser was employed , and the same results obtained .
A series of experiments was then made on the expansion of paraffine with temperature , in order to estimate the effect of this upon the capacity of paraffine condensers .
As a mean of the results , it was found that the linear expansion of paraffine at 9 ' .
C. is *000237 per degree .
Some further measurements of the cylindrical condenser were made with the same result as before .
Thus all the measurements of this condenser made at temperatures ranging from \#151 ; '12'* 15 to 24*35 C. show no variation of specific inductive capacity of paraffine with temperature .
This was found to be 1*977\#187 ; that of air being taken as unity .
In a note added to the paper a description is given of an improved form of sliding condenser .
III .
" On the Uniform Flow of a Liquid .
" By Henry Moseley , M.A. , D.C.L. , Canon of Bristol , F.R.S. , and Corresponding Member of the Institute of France .
Received December I , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The resistance of every molecule of a liquid at rest which a solid ( by moving through it ) disturbs , contributes its share to the resistance which the solid experiences ; so that the inertia of each molecule so disturbed and its shear must be taken into account in the aggregate , which represents the resistance the liquid offers to the motion of the solid .
The motions communicated to the molecules of a liquid by a solid passing through it , and the resistances opposed to them , however , are so various , and so difficult to be represented mathematically , that in the present state of our knowledge of hydrodynamics the problem of the resistance of a liquid at rest to a solid in motion is perhaps to be considered insoluble. .
As it regards the opposite problem of the resistance of a solid at rest to a liquid in motion ( as in the case of a liquid conveyed through a pipe ) , there are in like manner to be taken into account the disturbances created by that re-

