3 .
" 'On the relation of the Air and Evaporation Temperatures to the Temperature of the Dew-Point , as determined by Mr. Glaisher 's Hygrometrical Tables founded on the factors deduced from the Six-hourly observations made at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
" By J. F. Miller , Esq. , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Lieut.-Col. Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. After pointing out the importance of the hygrometer , both in a scientific and a practical point of view , the author goes into the question of the advantages and disadvantages attending the use of Daniell 's hygrometer , and the relative merits of this instrument and the dry and wet-bulb thermometers .
Although satisfied of the accuracy of Mr. Glaisher 's Tables ( founded on the Greenwich Observations ) , which show at once the relation of the temperature of evaporation to that of the dew-point , he was unwilling to abandon the use of Daniell 's apparatus for that of the wet and dry-bulb thermometers , slight as is the trouble of observing them , without personal experience of the correctness of the tables from which the dew-point was to be deduced .
IHe therefore instituted a series of perfectly comparable observations by the two methods , and in this communication gives the results obtained from them during a period of twenty months .
From a comparison of the dew-points determined by the two methods , he concludes that the results show in a striking manner the extreme accuracy of Mr. Glaisher 's Tables , and afford additional testimony to the value of the Greenwich Hygrometrical Observations , and the resulting formula on which those tables are founded .
The author then refers to the subject of evaporation , and gives the results of his own observations at Whitehaven during six years , viz. from 1843 to 1848 inclusive .
From these he states that the mean annual amount of evaporation is 30*011 inches ; and the mean quantity of rain for the same period being 45'255 inches , the depth of the water precipitated exceeds that taken up by evaporation , on the coast in latitude 54 ' ?
, by 15*244 inches .
54~ M , by 15F'~244 inches .

