On the Structure of the Organs of Respiration in Animals which appear to hold an intermediate Place between those of the Class Pisces and the Class Vernmes , and in two Genera of the last-mentioned Class .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 1 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 256 .
] The genera of animals here enumerated by the author , are the Lamprey , Myxine , an animal between the Lamprey and the Myxine , the Aphrodita aculeata , and the Leech .
In the Lamprey , the organs of respiration consist of separate oval bags , that have seven openings on each side of the neck , for receiving and etnitting the water which they breathe by means of a cartilaginous thorax surrounding the bags .
In the Lampern , which is of the same genus , the structure is very similar , but the cartilages of its thorax are weaker .
In an animal brought from the South Sea by Sir Joseph Banks , there are also the same number of external openings , and the same number of bags ; but there is no cartilaginous thorax , and hence the author is induced to consider the animal intermediate between the Lamprey and Myxine , which it resembles in having teeth , and in having a mesentery to its intestines .
In the Myxine , there are only two orifices on the under surface of the neck ; but these branch internally to six separate bags on each side .
In the Aphrodita aculeata , the organs of respiration differ so much from other animals of that tribe , that the author enters more minutely into the peculiarities of their structure .
There are thirty-two openings between its tufts of bristles on each side , which lead to one large cavity on the back , into which project two rows of globular cells that communicate with the viscera , the use of which may admit of some doubt .
In the Leech , there are sixteen external orifices on each side under the surface of the belly , communicating with an equal number of distinct globular cells .
With respect to the respiration of the Lamprey , the author observes , that it naturally differs from that of fishes in general ; for whilst they are attached by means of their mouths , the respiration could not then be carried on by means of that organ .
A portion of the respired water may , however , be occasionally received into the oesophagus by a tube , with which all the bags communicate , and thence may pass into the stomach .
In the animal from the South Seas , which has no cartilaginous thorax , the respiration must be performed by the elasticity of the bags themselves .
In the Myxine , the author conceives that the water received by the two external openings is carried wholly into the oesophagus , and is then thrown out by an orifice that opens externally below those before described .
In the Aphrodita and Leech , the same openings which receive , also emit the respired water ; and since in the latter the pressure of the bags is affected by the muscles of the body , their respiration must vary according to the degree of bodily exertion .

