II .
" On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By CHARLES TOMLINSON , F.R.S. Received April 21 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) This memoiris divided into six parts .
The first part contains a definition of the subject ; the second an historical sketch ; the third is on the action of nuclei in inducing crystallization , and the effect of low temperatures on a number of supersaturated solutions contained in chemically clean vessels ; the fourth is on the formation of a modified salt , as in the case of zinco-sulphate and sodic sulphate ; the fifth contains an inquiry as to whether anhydrous salts form supersaturated solutions ; and the sixth and last part is a summary with a classified list of the salts examined .
1 .
Definition.-When water at a high temperature is saturated with a salt , and , on being left to cool in a closed vessel , retains in solution a larger auantity of the salt than it could take up at the reduced temperature , the solution is said to be supersaturated .
2 .
History.-During many years the phenomena of supersaturation were studied with reference to solutions of Glauber 's salt .
In 1809 , Ziz of Mayence* showed that the sudden crystallization of these solutions is not due to agitation ; that the vessels containing the solutions do not require to be hermetically sealed ; but if put under a bell-glass , or loosely covered as with a capsule , they can be preserved during a long time ; that solids brought into contact with the solutions act as nuclei and produce instant crystallization , but that such solids act best as nuclei when dry ; if wet or boiled up with the solution they become inactive .
The most efficient nucleus is a crystal of the salt itself .
Air , if artificially dried , ceases to be a nucleus .
Three varieties of the sodic sulphate are noticed , i. e. the anhydrous and the ordinary 10-atom hydrate , and also a peculiar salt formed when supersaturated solutions in closed vessels are left to cool down .
This X Schweigger , Journal , ' 1815 , vol. xv .
2o x salt , as it is termed , contains less water of crvstallization than the ordinary salt , and is more soluble .
If the vessel in which it is formed be suddenly opened , or the mother-liquor touched with a nucleus , the motherliquor instantly solidifies into the 10-atom hydrate , and the x crystals become opaque , like the boiled white of an egg .
In 1819 Gay-Lussac referred the state of supersaturation to the inertia of the saline molecules , the molecular condition of thesides of the vessel , and other causes .
He also showed that solutions of soime other salts exhibit the phenomena of supersaturation .
In 1832 the number of such salts was shown by Dr. Ogdent to be not less that twenty-one .
In 1825 Faraday published some experiments on the supersaturated solutions of Glauber 's salt .
Graham ?
, Turner 1 , Ur , and others also contributed new facts ; but the most elaborate inquiry was by M. Lowel between the years 1850 and 1857 , the results of which are contained in six mnemoirs T. According to this writer , the ordinary I0-atom sodic sulphate increases in solubility from 32 ?
to 93 ?
'2 F. , at which latter temperature it begins to fuse in its water of crystallization , and to deposit the anhydrous salt .
This salt follows an inverse order of solubility as compared with the 10-atom hydrate , its solubility diminishing as the temperature rises ; or , what is the same thing , from 218 ?
, the boiling-point of a saturated solution , down to 64 ?
the solubility increases ; but at 64 ?
the solution undergoes a new molecular modification , and begins to form crystals of the 7-atom hydrate ( the x salt of Ziz ) .
This salt is much more soluble at ordinary temperatures than the 10-atom hydrate , its maximum solubilitybeing at 80 ?
'6 .
Thus the sodic sulphate has three maxima of solubility ; viz. 93 ?
'2 when it is under the molecular constitution of the 10-atom hydrate , 78 ?
'8 to 80 ?
'6 when it is under the molecular constitution of the 7-atom hydrate , and 62 ?
'6 to 64 ?
'4 when it is under the molecular constttitution of the anhydrous salt .
At these three maxima the saturated solutions are about equally rich in salt .
The 7-atom hydrate and the anhydrous salt can only maintain their molecular constitution when in contact with the mother-liquor in closed vessels , in which they are sheltered from the air and from other bodies that act upon them as nuclei .
No sooner are they exposed to the air than they become opaque and warm , and assume the molecular constitution of the 10-atom hydrate as well as its solubility .
Ilence the conclusion is that supersaturated solutions of the sodic sulphate are not really so , since they hold a salt of much greater solubility at ordinary temperatures than the normal 10-atom salt .
Lowel extends his inquiry to sodic carbonate and magnesia sulphate , and endeavours to show that in their supersaturated solutions salts of a lower degree of hydration and of greater solubility than the normal salts are formed ; and his general conclusion is * Annals de Chimie et de Physique , 2nd ser. vol. xi .
1 Edirb .
New Phil. Joura .
+ Quarterly Journal of Science , vol. xix . ?
Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
I !
Elements of Chemistry . ?
T Annals de Chimie ct de Physique , 3rd ser. vols .
xxix .
, xxxiii , xxxvii .
, xliii .
, xliv .
, xlix .
that all cases of supersaturation are in appearance only , and not in fact .
As to the function of nuclei and the inner sides of the flasks in determining crystallization , he regards it as the effect of one of those mysterious contact actions known as catalytic , of which science has not yet been able to give a satisfactory explanation .
Bodies that appear to be active in inducing crystallization are designated as catalytic or dynamic , while bodies that are apparently inactive are termed non-catalytic or adynamic .
" It appears certain , " he says , " that but for the mysterious action which the air and other bodies exert on supersaturated solutions , we should obtain sulphate of soda only in the modified state ; that is , crystallized with seven equivalents of water , and possessing at ordinary temperatures of the air a much greater solubility than that of the normal 10-atom salt .
" Later inquirers have endeavoured to explain the nature of the force exerted by nuclei in inducing crystallization under certain conditions , and their passivity under others .
Gernez* tried no less than 220 solids , and of these he selected 39 that were active in inducing crystallization : 18 were insoluble ; these were carefully washed in distilled water , and dried out of contact with air .
When dry they were found to be without action on the solutions they had previously caused to crystallize .
The 21 soluble substances were purified by recrystallization , and they all became inactive .
Hence it is concluded that sulphate of soda is the only nucleus for solutions of the same salt .
That is to say , whenever a glass rod or other body acts as a nucleus , it is contaminated with minute portions of the salt itself , which cM .
Gernez believes to exist in the air , not only of towns , but in the country , According to this view , the supersaturated solution of any other salt can only be crystallized by a saline nucleus of its own kind .
But , as M. Jeannelt has pointed out , if this theory be true , we must have floating in the air specimens of all kinds of salts that form supersaturated solutions , and crystallize by the introduction of a solid nucleus ; whereas there are some such salts which cannot exist in the presence of the oxygen or of the ammonia of the air .
M. Jeannel shows that a few drops of an ordinary solution of a salt will induce crystallization in a supersaturated solution of the same salt without contact of air .
3 .
On the Action of Nuclei.-With respect to the action of nuclei on : saline supersaturated solutions generally , the author refers to a theory of his 4 which seems to account for the liberation of gases from their super , saturated solutions ( soda-water , seltzer-water , champagne , &amp; c ) when a solid nucleus that had been exposed to the air is immersed in them ; while such nucleus becomes inactive if kept long in water , or passed through flame &amp;c. , and dried or cooled out of contact with air .
The action of , nuclei is referred to adhesion .
Nuclei are active in inducing crystallization , or they are inactive , according to the state of chemical purity of their surfaces .
In the case of a supersaturated saline solution , the sides of the vessel may act as nuclei , or any solid , and some liquid , bodies brought into contact with it .
Now suppose the inner surface of the vessel to be made chemically clean , either by well washing it with strong sulphuric acid , or caustic alkali , or spirits of wine , or , as often happens , by boiling the saline solution in the vessel in which it is intended to be kept .
In such cases there is perfect adhesion between the sides and the solution , and no salt will be liberated ; the sides may in fact be regarded as merely a continuation of the liquid itself , and no salt can be formed there any more than in the central parts of the liquid .
But suppose the sides to be not chemically clean , to be more or less dirty in fact ; in such cases adhesion is diminished or destroyed , and the surface of the liquid next to such sides is virtually as free as its upper surface .
Salt will be deposited there , other circumstances being favourable , really from want of adhesion between the side and the liquid that holds the salt in solution .
Now apply this to the case of a so-called " adynamic , " " non-catalytic , " or " inactive " glass rod , or coin , or fragment of glass or of flint , &amp;c. A glass rod placed in the solution does nothing more than form new sides , as it were , to the vessel , and its effect is merely that of the sides .
If chemically clean , the rod will form no crystals about it , and hence it is " inactive " because its adhesion is perfect .
If dirty , the surface of the solution in contact with it will be as free , or almost so , as the upper surface .
It requires special means to produce a chemically clean surface ; and when produced , it is not easy to maintain it .
A short exposure to the air , or a mere touch , will suffice to cover it with an organic film , or with motes or dust that prevent or lessen adhesion between it and the aqueous part of the solution , and apparently render an inactive solid active .
When a glass rod &amp;c. has been kept in water or passed through flame and dried , or cooled out of contact with the air , it is more or less chemically clean , and remains so while being sheltered .
When Ziz found a knitting-needle active on one solution , and by passing it through the cork which confined a similar solution it became inactive , he simply made the wire chemically clean by the friction .
Air is not a nucleus , and when it appears to act as such , it is simply as a carrier of some solid particle not chemically clean .
Hence narrow-necked flasks when opened retain their solutions liquid longer than wide-necked ones , as the former are less likely to catch motes &amp;c. from the air than the latter .
Supersaturated solutions are best preserved by plugging the necks of the flasks &amp;c. with cotton-wool , since in cooling down the air is filtered in passing through the plug , and motes and dust are thus kept back .
Tubes made chemically clean by the action of strong sulphuric acid may be filled with a strong solution of sodic ' sulphate , and when cold the tubes may be placed in a freezing-mixture at 10 ?
F. without any separation of the salt .
Hence the author differs from iM .
Liwel 's theory , which supposes a molecular change to take place when strong solutions of the salt are cooled down below 60 ? .
Supersaturated solutions of various saltswere cooled down to various temperatures from 32 ?
to 0 ?
F. without crystallizing .
Sodic acetate , for example , was kept for some hours at 14 ?
, when on touching it with a wire it became solid , and the temperature rose to 104 ? .
Sodic arseniate , sodic succinate , sodic borate , sodio-potassic tartrate , potash alum , and other saline solutions were treated in this way .
Some of these solutions become viscid at a low temperature , and do not immediately crystallize on removing the cotton-wool plug .
If they be touched , or the side of the flask scratched with a chemically clean wire , there is no action ; but if the wire be not chemically clean , the scratches immediately become chalky white by being covered with minute crystals of the salt , and the action then spreads until the solution becomes solid .
Some salts that are not very soluble in water , such as the plumbic acetate , form highly charged supersaturated solutions , and retain their liquid state below ordinary atmospheric temperatures .
When at a certain point they suddenly solidify .
Other solutions merely deposit the excess of salt above the condition of supersaturation , leaving the mother-liquor saturated ; the cupric sulphate is an example of this .
The memoir contains a number of details respecting the action of nuclei , whether derived from the air , from the flask , from the salt itself , from the filter , or the cotton-wool used in closing the vessels .
If the solution touch the wool , crystallization immediately sets in ; or if the upper part of a chemically clean tube be touched with a finger slightly greasy before filtering into it the hot solution , the latter will cool down to the temperature of the air without crystallizing , nor will there be any effect if the tube be inclined so as to touch the clean portions of the inner surface ; but the moment the solution comes upon the edge of the finger-mark , crystallization sets in , and the solution becomes solid .
Solutions not filtered that begin to crystallize at above 1000 in open vessels , or even in closed flasks , may by filtration be freed from nuclei , and so cooled down in the latter to low temperatures without any separation of the salt .
4 .
On the formation of a modifed salt.-The readiness with which sodic sulphate parts with its water of crystallization , and two or three other considerations , make it more than probable that a solution of sodic sulphate at high temperatures is really a solution of the anhydrous salt .
But M. Lowel supposes &amp; that a supersaturated solution in cooling down below 60 ?
assumes a new molecular constitution , viz. that of the more soluble 7-atom hydrate which it then holds in solution .
The author gives an experiment to show that such cannot be the case , but that the solution continues to hold the anhydrous salt until a portion of it actually separates .
If a boiling solution of two parts salt to one part water be filtered into vessels made chemically clean by being washed out with spirits of wine instead of sulphuric acid , and if these vessels , when cold , be placed in water at 32 ?
, or from that to 40 ?
, a few octohedral crystals of the anhydrous salt will be thrown down .
The temperature will slightly rise ; and if the tube be now set aside in a moderately warm air , the anhydrous salt will enter into solution , forming a dense lower substratum , from which the 7-atom hydrate will be produced in small quantity , there not being suficient water present to form the ordinary 10-atom salt .
The rest of the solution is still supersaturated , and if the plug be removed from the vessel , crystallization will set in from the surface and proceed rapidly downwards , carrying down enough water to convert the whole solution , as well as the 7-atom , into the 10-atom hydrate .
This process may be conveniently watched in the case of the zinc sulphate .
When a saturated solution of this salt cools down from the boilingpoint to about 70 ?
, the monohydrated salt is thrown down in quantity , and , as the solution cools , a portion of this dissolves and a crop of acicular crystals is produced which readily melt down at about 100 ? .
On removing the cotton-wool from the tube , crystallization sets in from the surface , and the ordinary 6-atom hydrate is produced .
The author examines M. Lowel 's experiments on solutions of the sodic carbonate in which two modified hydrates are pointed out , viz. the 71H Oa and the 7H0 6 , which differ in solubility from each other and from the 10atom salt ; but as iBI .
L6wel attaches great importance to the peculiar catalytic properties of the sides of his vessels in determining the formation of these salts , the author cannot help thinking that M. Lowel 's results were due to portions of the sides of his vessel , not chemically clean , acting as nuclei .
In chemically clean vessels M. Lowel 's results have not been reproduced ; for on reducing the temperature to a certain point depending on the strength of the solution , the whole became suddenly solid , with a rise in temperature of 35 ?
or 40 ? .
M. Lowel also points out two modifications produced from supersaturated solutions of the magnesia sulphate .
The author has placed boiling saturated solutions , when cold , in freezing-mixtures at 10 ?
without producing any separation of the salt .
The ammonia phosphate throws down from its supersaturated solution an anhydrous powder , which , again entering into solution , forms a dense lower stratum in which a modified transparent crystallized salt is formed in small quantity .
The strontic nitrate also deposits an anhydrous salt in cooling down to about 62 ?
; but as this salt is not soluble in the solution , the modified salt is not formed .
Some solutions on being cooled down in freezing-mixtures suddenly become solid ; others freeze and sometimes thaw again without any separation of the salt , as in the case of the cupric sulphate ; but if a boiling saturated solution of this salt be prepared with strict attention to chemical purity , it may be cooled down to near 0 ?
F. without any separation of the salt .
5 .
Anhydrous Salts.-The method adopted to ascertain whether an anhydrous salt forms a supersaturated solution was to make a solution of known strength , as indicated by some good Table of solubilities , raise it to the boiling-point , and then note whether salt began to be thrown down when the solution cooled down to the temperature indicated by the Table .
For example , according to Poggiale 's Table , 100 parts of water at 158 ?
will dissolve 129'6 of sodic nitrate .
This is the same thing as 622'22 grains of the salt in 1 ounce water .
Such a solution on cooling down from the boiling-point began to deposit salt at 160 ? .
In like manner , according to Gay-Lussac 's Table , 100 parts of water at 150 ?
F. contain 125 of potassic nitrate .
A solution of 125 parts salt to 100 of water began to deposit salt at about 149 ? .
The deposit first began to be made on the side nearest the window , or the coldest side , when the flask was suspended in air ; but if the flask were placed on metal , or any other good conductor , a ring of salt was first formed at the bottom , some 6 ?
or 8 ?
earlier than if the flask stood on a block of wood .
It has been frequently stated that the potassic bichromate forms a supersaturated solution .
According to Kremer , 200 of water at 140 ?
F. dissolve 100 parts of the salt .
Such a solution , on cooling from the boiling-point began to throw down crystalline flakes at 138 ? .
The remarkable deepening in colour of this solution under the influence of heat is pointed out .
Sal-ammoniac , potassic chlorate , and some other salts were also examined , the conclusion being that anhydrous salts do not form supersaturated solutions .
6 .
Conclusion and Summary.-The author refers to the prevailing theory that supersaturation exists in appearance only and not in fact , since it is supposed to be the modified and more soluble salt that is in solution .
If this were true , it ought to apply to all cases of supersaturation , and it has only been claimed in the case of a very few salts , and in them much importance has been attached to the active or the inactive condition of the sides of the vessels containing the solutions .
The author , while admitting , in the case of a very few solutions , that a modified salt may be deposited , denies that it is due to any molecular change that takes place in the solution , either from reduction of temperature or any catalytic property of the sides of the vessel .
His theory is that when these modified salts are formed , it is the anhydrous salt that is held in solution , a portion of which is thrown down as the temperature falls ; and this anhydrous deposit , entering again into solution , forms a dense substratum containing less water than the upper portions , so that when the modified salt forms in it , it is out of the reach of sufficient water to form the normal salt .
When , on the contrary , under the influence of a nucleus , crystallization sets in from the surface , the normal salt is formed , and the crystals carry down sufficient water to convert the whole into the ordinary hydrated salt .
As to the action of nuclei or the sides of the vessel , when chemically clean the solution adheres to them as a whole , and there is no separation of the salt ; when not chemically clean there is a stronger adhesion between the salt and the nucleus than between the salt and the solvent , and there is a separation of salt ; and the action of separation once begun , may be rapidly propagated throughout the whole solution .
Boiling saturated solutions may be cooled down in chemically clean vessels and kept for any length of time , not because they undergo any molecular change or hold a salt of greater solubility than the normal salt in solution , but they retain their fluid form simply from the absence of a nucleus .
The salts examined in this memoir are arranged into five groups according to their behaviour .
I. Salts of which the supersaturated solutions remain liquid at low temperatures .
Examples:-Sodic sulphate .
Sodic acetate .
Sodic arseniate .
Sodic succinate .
Sodic borate .
Sodio-potassic tartrate .
Potash alum .
Magnesia sulphate .
Baric acetate .
Calcic chloride .
Cupric sulphate .
II .
Salts of which the supersaturated solutions suddenly solidify at low temperatures .
Examples:-Sodic carbonate .
Sodic phosphate .
Plumbic acetate .
Sodic hyposulphite .
Strontic chloride .
III .
Salts of which the supersaturated solutions deposit their excess of salt at low temperatures or under the action of a nucleus , leaving the motherliquor saturated .
Examples:--Zinco-acetate .
Cupric sulphate .
Baric chloride .
Potassic arseniate .
Antimonio-potassic tartrate .
Citric acid .
IV .
Salts of which the supersaturated solutions form modified salts of a lower degree of hydration .
Examples:-Zinco-sulphate .
Sodic sulphate .
Magnesia sulphate .
Ammonia phosphate .
It will be seen that the sodic sulphate and the magnesia sulphate also occupy a place in Class I. V. Anhydrous salts examined in this memoir that do not form supersaturated solutions : Potassic nitrate .
Potassic bichromate .
Sal-ammoniac .
Sodic nitrate .
Potassic chlorate .
Potassic ferrocyanide .
Baric nitrate .
Plumbic nitrate .
Ammonium nitrate .

