]\gt ; 220- On the A elations of at By ( Received Apri12 , \mdash ; Read Apri122 , 1909 .
) ( 1 ) population to be considered in this paper is supposed to be initiated by a group of individuals with protogenic constitution individuals with the constitution , and s'3 individuals with the hybrid constitution ( Aa ) , where the is iven by the nple Mendelian formula : ( Aa ) .
I do not assume this stage any relation between the ametic constitntion of individual and its somatic character .
I pose first to consider the relation between ancestor and the resulting array of Qpring , when we their gametic constitutions .
I assnnle that all in the population is random , .
that every possibJe lnating occurs simply in the proportions of the frequency of individuals of given t constitution in the population , and that there is no fertility or selective death-rate .
In a paper published in the 'Phil .
Trans vol. , 1904 , p. 53 I have dealt with the correlation between the characters of the ancestry and the ffspl i in a population of a Mendelinn characCel , llore general in that I supposed the character to depend upon couplets , not a Mendelian couplet , less general in that I supposed the ) to have isen from a series of initial tions , and not a mixture as in the present case of hybrids and members of two races in any oportions .
In that paper I showed that there was COl.relatio between any ancestor and the , ( b ) that the ressio for any ancestor and the linear , and ( c ) that the corrclations decreased in g .
These are the chief of of ' Ancestral HeIedity .
It was clear that , CYed by solnatic characters only , ancestry was of ance .
The result ) ended on Mendel 's hrst } ) } of dominance being tely t. The valuefi of the correlntions were , however , less than those with which biometric had made ns ( 2 ) In the paper I start with a more tion , investigate the correlation of the gametic not the natic characters .
The general formula ) population the ; is .
( i ) After the first randonl it is Prof K. Pearson .
On the [ Apr. 2 , I write this for brevity ( aa ) , ( ii ) and this constitution remains permanent in all successive matings .
Hence the standard deviations of the gametic constitutions remain the same eneration after generation , and the correlation coefficient is in every ase equal to the slope of the ression line .
I shall determine the slope of this line which will the correlation and show that the is truly linear in each case .
( 3 ) I consider first the effect of individuals of each special type with the population ( ii ) .
( a ) Type ( AA ) : the array of offspring is ( b ) Type : , , , , ( c ) Type : , , , , Thus , in seeking what any differentiated Otlp produces when mated with the general population , i.e. when mated at random , all we have to do is to replace ( AA ) , ( Aa ) and by the above three expressions respectively .
In this manner I obtained array of offspring due to any parent , any grandparent and any great yrandparent .
These at once allowed me to reach the general law of distribution , and , this , one multiplication by the general population ( ii ) demonstrated by induction the validity of the results reached .
Ihese as follows:\mdash ; I term parent any indiyidual enerations back in the direct ancestry : thus a 1st parent is the father or mother ; a 2nd parent , a lPareItt ; a 3rd parent , a great grandparent , and so on .
( i ) If the parent be an ( A A ) , then the of due to matings is ( If the rent be an the tLray f is ( Ao ) ( iii ) lf the be an , of 1909 .
] of Mendehcm P ( 4 ) These distributions correspond to the cases of 2 , 1 and A elements in the gametic constitution of the nth parent .
And we have at once the following result:\mdash ; Number of protogenic elements Average number of same in parent .
elen ents in array of offspring .
Accordingly , the average number of protogenic elements in the array of offspring decreases uniformly with the decrease in number of the like elements in the nth parent , Thus the ression between the ?
parent and the offspring is linear , and the correlation coefficients a geometrical series of ratio , and first term 21 .
Further , the exact constitution of the population , as far as the of enic , heterogenic lividuals is concern is of no influence on the result at all .
For all mixtures following the } ) Mendelian rule : ( AA ) ( Aa ) , the correlations tletic constitution are : elatiou , correlation Great grandparental ) and so on .
It will be seen at once that these correlations of the type for which , in my .
of 1896 , I worked out ressio formula , and that the ancestors were quite .
" " A knowof the altc stry beyond the rents in way lters omcut ( to the size of or degree of characteristic probable in the ' its This remark and the proof pply eqnally to to so1natic characters if the ) the ( 5 ) therc1 rentains not the Mendeliatl theory and the Law of edity , if confine attention to ametic cCitntion .
is with ) in series descendirtg ) in a ) , il1 the is values of the coefficienCs " " gression , cdit Phil. Prof. K. Pearson .
On the Ancestral Gametic [ Apr. 2 , precisely those which it was pointed out in 1896 woultl l to a knowledge of the parental constitution*replacing of the ancestry .
( 6 ) point , however , of the present investigation is that the values now shown theoretically to exist for the ancestral metic correlations in simple Mendelian mixture are very close to those determined for -natic characters in biometric investigations , whereas the somatic correlations for a Mendelian population , if we maintain intact the principle of absolute dominance , appear theoretically to be too low .
Thus the for parental correlation in man , horse , and cattle is about , and for the g1andparental correlation lies between and ; but this tendency in the grandparent to some slight excess on the Mendelian gametic value must not be boiven too much weight .
( 7 ) It seems desirable to consider how far the results in my paper of 1904 for tlJe somatic correlations are modified if we assume for our population ( cm ) , and do not make Assuming the principle of dominance to be absolute , I enquire what is the proportion of offspring possessing the dominant characteri.e .
or supposing the parent to possess it ( .
to be ( AA ) or ( Aa ) ) ; , what is the prop ortion ossessing the dominant character , supposing the nth parent does not possess it ( i.e. to be cm ) .
of dominant offspring .
dominant in somatic parent recessive iu somatic cter From this it follows that the correlation which is equal to the regression is If , this is , in with the conclusion of my memoir of 1904 .
unless number of pure dominants in the ation be ingly small ( as well , of coul.se , as the nuulber of impure ( this not a series the form .
applies , and when we must most instances by the somatic and the unknown etic c , the ancestry does matter .
As a tter of fact , a of ametic constitution of the ancestry ill auy atiou w be suiiicient with ] of the pnreuts .
It ssumed t A is domil ) ovel 1909 .
] Correlations of Population .
The ving table illustrates the percent of dominant charactered offsprin when we selected an ancestor of given character:\mdash ; Percentage of dominants in offspring .
Ancesto ] ] .
Becessive .
Dominant .
Recessive .
} Recessive .
Parent Grandparent 3rd parent 896 6th parent 4th parent 5th parent th parent It will be clear that the difference of the percentage of dominants in the offspring according as a parent , grandparent or great randparent was dominant or recessive in somatic character is quite marked ; and only as we approach the higher ancestry , where the correlation is very weak , does the percentage difference grow imperceptible .
( 8 ) That ancestry does not matter if we know the ametic constitution of the parents , that it does matter if we only know the somatic character of the parents appears to be the solution of one oi the difficulties which some have found between the Mendelian and biometric methods of approaching the subject .
There is , however , I venture to think , an other aspect of these results which is worthy of fuller consideration .
Namely , the fairly close accordance now shown for the first time to exist between the ancestral ametic correlations in a Mendelian population and the observed ancestral somatic correlations ests that the accordance between gametic and somatic constitutions is for at least characters possibly more intimate than is expressed by an absolute of dominance .
If ( Aa ) were a class , or possibly on a wider minantal theory a group of sevcral sses , luarked by an individual somatic character\mdash ; not iably identical with the somatic character of ( AA)\mdash ; there would be little lefG of contradiction between biometric and lIendelian results as by populations sensibly mating at random .
It is the unqualified assertion of the principlc of dominance which appeal .
S at present as the block .
VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; B.

