372 Messrs. C. R. A. Wright and C. Thompson .
[ June 20 , XVII .
" Note on the Development of Voltaic Electricity by Atmospheric Oxidation of combustible Gases and other Substances .
" By C. R. Alder Wright , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , , Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics , and C. Thompson , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , in St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Received June 20 , 1889 .
About fourteen months ago we had the honour of communicating to the Society ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , 'vol .
44 , p. 182 ) the results of a large number of experiments made with electromotor cells , of which a special feature was that one of the plates of the combination consisted of an " aeration plate , " or layer of conducting material exposed to the atmosphere , and consequently superficially charged with a film of condensed air , which served as a means of indirectly effecting the oxidation of the other plate ( when made of oxidisable metal ) , or of the fluid surrounding it ( when the plate is of non-oxidisable material immersed in an oxidisable fluid ) .
We showed that the E.M.F. of a given combination varies very considerably with the nature of the material of which the aeration plate is made , surfaces of platinum sponge , and especially platinum black , yielding the highest results when the electrolyte is dilute sulphuric acid ; a convenient way of constructing the plates being to apply the spongy metal to the surface of unglazed earthenware , or other similar porous non-conducting material , so as to form a conducting film , the electrolytic fluid being absorbed in the porous material and so making contact .
We also found that the substitution of pure oxygen for air only increased the E.M.P. by inconsiderable amounts , and that somewhat analogous cells are obtainable by employing combustible gases , e.g. , hydrogen , to surround the aeration plate , the opposed plate being either an incorrodible one immersed in a fluid capable of supplying oxygen ( permanganate or chromic acid solution , nitric acid , \amp ; c. ) , or one itself capable of parting with oxygen ( compressed lead peroxide , \amp ; c. ) .
By employing two aeration piates , one in contact with the air and one with the oxidisable gas , a form of gas battery was obtained which , like all other gas batteries , furnished a current considerably less powerful than that due to the chemical action taking place , even under the most favourable conditions .
The most convenient form of simple cell of this class examined by us consisted of a thin plate of unglazed earthenware , such as that used for the porous pots of a Grove 's battery , both sides of which were coated over with spongy platinum to within a short distance of he edges , contact being made by means of thin strips of platinum foil pressed against the coated earthenware by means of the clamping 1889 .
] Electricity developed by Oxidation of Gases , fyc .
portion of an ordinary binding screw ( fig. 1 , aa , ) .
One of the faces of the coated plate was boxed in by means of thin sheet gutta percha , so as to form a shallow chamber , b , into which hydrogen or other gas could be led as required , by means of the inlet and outlet tubes , c , c ; the other face was freely exposed to the air .
By impregnating the porous earthenware with dilute sulphuric acid , caustic soda solution , or other electrolyte , and filling the chamber b with oxidisable gas ( hydrogen , coal-gas , carbon oxide , \amp ; c. ) , maintaining a slow current through it to prevent material alteration of the internal atmosphere by diffusion and osmosis , a form of gas battery was* obtained , capable of furnishing continuous currents of sufficient magnitude to effect very appreciable amounts of silver deposition in a silver voltameter .
Obviously , by increasing the size of the plates and arranging a number of cells in series , the power might be greatly augmented ; to effect this we arranged a series of coated plates in a covered trough or box of insulating material , so as to form partitions , and thus divide the trough into chambers alternately closed in and filled with hydrogen .
\amp ; c. , and open to the air ( fig. 2 ) , the connexions being made as indicated , the outer faces of each pair of plates thus being freely exposed to the air , and the inner faces in contact with a hydrogen atmosphere ; obviously , to effect this disposition an odd number of chambers is requisite , including those open to the air as well as those 374 Messrs. 0 .
R. A. Wright and C. Thompson .
[ .Tune 20 , fi lied with hydrogen , and an even number of doubly-coated porous partitions .
We found that the difficulty in avoiding leakage of gases from one chamber to another and various other causes usually prevented the E.M.F. of a battery of n doubly-coated plates from reaching quite as high as n times the E.M.F. obtainable from a single cell ; in no case did we obtain as high an E.M.F. as 1 volt per cell , even with only infinitesimal cui'rents , whilst 0'6 to 0'7 volt per cell was about the highest value obtained with currents of magnitude sufficient to measure readily with the silver voltameter .
Still our results were sufficiently good to convince us that if the expense of construction were no object , so that large coated plates could be employed , enabling currents of moderate magnitude to be obtained with but small current density , there would be no particular difficulty in constructing " double aeration plate cells " of this kind , competent to yield currents comparable with those derived from ordinary small laboratory batteries ; although we concluded that the economical production of powerful currents for commercial purposes by the direct oxidation of combustible gases did not seem to be a problem likely to be readily solved , chiefly on account of the cost of the large appliances that would be requisite .
Precisely the same remark applies to all other forms of cell in which oxidation is effected by means of atmospheric air applied as an " aeration plate , " at least , so far as our observations have extended .
Given sufficiently large aeration plates , there is no difficulty in setting up aeration cells capable of producing moderately powerful currents , the energy being due either to the oxidation of a metal ( .
, zinc or aluminium , \amp ; c. ) , or to the oxidation of an oxidisable fluid , such as solution of sodium hydrosulphite ( Schiitzenberger 's ) , ammoniacal cuprous oxide , and such like liquids .
As yet wre have not succeeded in effecting the direct oxidation in this way of alcohol , petroleum , 1889 .
] Electricity developed by Oxidation of Gates , Sfc .
375 coal , and such like forms of comparatively cheap sources of energy , but we are far from being convinced that such actions are impracticable .
Our reasoii for bringing this note before the Society is that at the Conversazione of the Society last night ( June 19th ) there was exhibited by Mr. Ludwig Mond and Dr. Carl Langer an elegant and compact " dry gas battery , " said to have been invented by them , but substantially identical in principle with one of those experimented with by ourselves some two years ago , chiefly differing in being far larger and more neatly finished , and in consequence capable of producing much more current than any arrangement constructed by us .
It consisted of a battery of fourteen double aeration plates of films of platinum leaf and platinum black , supported by porous material impregnated with dilute sulphuric acid ; when fed with hydrogen and air , as the gases introduced into the compartments formed by the parallel plates arranged in a trough or box , it furnished a current powerful enough to keep alight for a long time a small incandescent lamp , and was stated to be capable of giving a current of 2 amperes per element , with an E.M.F. of about 0*7 volt , the total effective surface of each element being 774 square centimetres .
[ Note.\#151 ; Since the above was written , we have had the opportunity of seeing an uncorrected proof of a paper by Mr. Mond and Dr. Langer entitled '* On a New Form of Gas Battery " ( read before the Society-on June 20th , 1889 ) in which the dry gas battery above referred to is described , as well as various experiments on aeration cells ; and the causes discussed which prevent the E.M.F. of such combinations from being as large in practice as it theoretically ought to be , calculating from the heat developed during the chemical actions taking place .
From the internal evidence of this paper , as well as from Mr. Mond 's assurances to us , we are convinced that the form of gas battery described by Mr. Mond and Dr. Langer was not , as might perhaps be supposed , in any way suggested to them by our previous work ( with which indeed they appear to have been entirely unacquainted ) , but was arrived at by them quite independently .
In this paper the authors have repeated unknowingly various of our former experiments on aeration cells , with substantially the same results , as the following figures indicate , obtained with cells where the aeration plates were layers of platinum sponge and black resting on porous plates moistened with dilute sulphuric acid , and opposed to various inetals immersed in the acid .
The theoretical values being Zinc = 2*281 : Cadmium = 1*924 : Copper = 1*203 .
Presents .
[ June 20 , Mond and Langer .
Nature of aeration plete surface , platinum black .
Strength of acid , not stated .
Alder Wright and Thompson .
Platinum black .
Platinum sponge .
10H2S04,100H20 .
ioh2so4 , iooh2o .
2-5H2S04,100H20 .
Zinc .
... Cadmium Copper . .
1*77 volt .
1 -425 " 0-70 " 1 -750 volt .
1*505 " 0 -780 " 1 '628 volt .
1 383 " 0-658 " 1 '681 volt .
1-356 " 0 -636 " Similarly , in attributing the diminution of the E.M.F. of gas batteries below the calculated amount to the circumstance that heat is evolved during the condensation of gases on surfaces like spongy metals , the authors appear to have been unacquainted with numerous previous papers by one of us , and more especially with one published in 1881 , in which this and various allied matters were pretty fully discussed , * and the conclusion arrived at ( inter alia ) , that " the heats of condensation of oxygen and hydrogen by platinum , \amp ; c. , may jointly amount to almost as large a quantity as that developed by their union to form liquid water."\#151 ; July 30th , 1889 .
] XVIII .
" On certain Geometrical Theorems .
No. 4 .
" By W. H. L. Russell , A.B. , F.R.S. Received May 25 , 1889 .
[ Publication deferred.j XIX .
" An Experimental Verification of the Sine Law of Malus .
" By E. J. Spitta .
Communicated by W. DE W. Abney , Capt. R.E. , F.R.S. Received May 29 , 1889 .
XX .
" Observations on the Spark Discharge .
" By J. Joly .
Communicated by Professor G. F. Fitzgerald , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1889 .
[ Publication deferred .j Presents , June 20 , 1889 .
Transactions .
Baltimore :\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Vol. VIII .
No. 73 .
4to .
Baltimore 1889 .
The University .
* No. Ill of a series of nine Memoirs on the " Determination of Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force .
" ' Proceedings of the Physical Society , vol. 4 , p.'lOl ; also ' Phil. Mag. , ' March , 1881 ( Series 5 , vol. 77 , p. 169 ) .

