setting .
It was a perfect calmn and the sea was as smootl as glass .
If-l might venture to offer a solution of this appearance ) it would be as follows .
I consider the bow A Bas the true one , produced by the sun itself ; and the other AC , as produced by the reflection of the sun from the sea , which , in its perfectly smooth state , acted as a speculum .
The direction of the sea between the Isle of Wight and the land ras to the north-west in -a line with the sun , as it was then situated The image reflected from the water , having its rays issuing from a point lover than the real sunS and in a line coming from beneath the horizon , would consequently form a bow higher than the true one , AB .
And the shores , by which that narrow part of the sea is bounded , would , before the sunvs actual setting , intercept its rays from the surface of the waterX and cause the bow AC : &gt; which l suppose to be produced by the reflectionf to disappear befire the other T RANSACTION S. .
Ie An AGDOUBt of two Rainbows seen at the same Time at Alverstoke , Hants9 July 9 , 179g .
By the Rev. Mr. Sturges Communicated by Willialn Heberden , M. D. Fe R. S. Read January so X 79S ON the evening of the gth of July , 179ej between seven and eight oaclock7 at Alverstoke , near Gosport , orl the sea coast of Hampshire , there came up , in the south-east , a cloud with a thunder-shower ; while the sun shone bright , low in the hori zon to the north-west .
In this shower two primary rainbows appeared , AS and A C , ( Tab. I ) not concentric , but touching each other at A in the south part of the horizon X with a secondary tow to eachs DE and DF ( the last very faint , but discernible)7 which touched likewise , at D Both the primary were very vivid for a considerable time , and at different times nearly equally soX but the bow AB was most permanentf was a larger segment of a circle , and at last , after the other had vanishedS became almost a sernicircle the sun being near MDCCXCIIXe B PHILOSOPHICAL

