385 A Discussion of Atmospheric Electric Potential Results at Kew , from selected Days during the Seven Years 1898 to 1904 .
By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( Received February 21 , \#151 ; Read March 15 , 1906 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) ( Abstract .
) The Paper contains an analysis of the atmospheric electricity results at Kew from selected days\#151 ; usually 10 a month\#151 ; during the seven years 1898 to 1904 .
The days were chosen as representative of fine weather conditions , all days bemg excluded when rain fell or negative potential was recorded .
By means of regular observations with a portable electrometer , the curve readings from the Kelvin water-dropping electrograph were converted so as to give the potential gradient in the open , in volts per meter .
All the data : mean monthly values , diurnal inequalities , etc. , are given in absolute measure { volts per meter ) .
This is believed to be the first occasion on which this has been done .
The diurnal inequalities for individual months and for the whole year are represented by curves .
These are mostly exceedingly smooth , thus showing that a sufficient number of years ' data have been included to give satisfactory results .
The curves all show two distinct daily maxima and minima .
The minima occur in all the months near 4 a.m. and 2 p.m. The times of the maxima are more variable , the day interval between the forenoon and the evening maximum being longer in summer than in winter .
The month showing the highest mean potential gradient is December , but the amplitude of the diurnal inequality is greatest in February .
Whilst the amplitude of diurnal inequality , when considered absolutely , is greatest in the mid-winter months , the ratio in which it stands to the mean daily value is least at this season .
The diurnal inequalities for the several months are analysed in Fourier series , with 24- , 12- , 8- , and 6-hour terms .
The 12-hour term is , in general , the most important , especially in summer ; the changes in its amplitude and phase angle throughout the year are comparatively small .
The 24-hour term is much more variable .
It is much larger in the winter than in the summer months , and its phase angle varies greatly throughout the year .
The diurnal range , the 24 hourly differences from the mean for the day , and the amplitudes of the 24- and 12-hour waves , have their annual variation Atmospheric Electric Potential Results at Kew .
expressed in Fourier series , with annual and semi-annual terms .
In all cases the annual term proves to be the more important .
Attention is given not merely to the regular diurnal changes , based Gn mean results from a number of days , but also to the phenomena exhibited by the individual days themselves .
It is found that the difference between the highest and lowest hourly values is , on the average , two and a-half times the amplitude of the regular diurnal inequality , and is , in fact , fully larger than the mean value for the day of the potential gradient .
The difference between the values of the potential gradient at successive midnights of the selected days , when taken irrespective of sign , averages about 43 per cent , of the mean daily value .
When taken algebraically , there seems a slight tendency in the potential to rise during the selected days in December and January , but , taking the year as a whole , the mean non-cyclic element is exceedingly small .
The possible influence of various meteorological elements is considered from several standpoints .
The influence of temperature is found to be much the most marked , there being a clear association of high mean potential and large diurnal range of potential with low temperature in every month of the year , except the hottest ( July ) .
In the winter months there is also an association of high potential with low wind velocity and high barometric pressure , but the association in these cases is much less clear .
Some of the data are compared with older data for Kew , obtained by Everett .
In some respects there is fair agreement , but conspicuous differences exist .
The results are also compared with other data given in a recent important memoir by Mr. A. B. Chauveau , for Kew and Greenwich , and for a number of stations in Italy and France , especially the Bureau Central Meteorologique and the Eiffel Tower in Paris .
An Appendix makes a minute comparison of the diurnal inequalities of potential and of barometric pressure at Kew .
A somewhat striking resemblance between the diurnal changes in these elements was pointed out by Everett in 1866 , which possesses increased interest of late years , owing to Elster and Geitel 's discovery that air extracted from the soil is usually markedly ionised , and their consequent suggestion that the variations of barometric pressure may influence the potential gradient by facilitating or retarding the escape of this ionised air into the atmosphere .
Everett 's original comparison was between potential data from Kew and barometric data for Halle , both for the mean diurnal inequality from the whole year .
Both elements are , in reality , considerably dependent on local conditions , and it thus seemed important to employ data for the same place .
Mean diurnal inequalities were thus got out for each month of the year for Explosions of Coal-Gas and Air .
387 the barometric pressure at Kew , making use of the data published in the \#171 ; Hourly Means " of the Meteorological Office for an 11-year period , 1890 to 1900 .
This enabled a really critical comparison to be carried out with the potential gradient .
The result shows decisively that the similarity between the diurnal inequalities of the two elements is confined to the 12-hour terms ; the 24-hour terms present , in fact , diametrically opposed phenomena in the two cases .
The afternoon minimum and evening maximum of potential are in every month notably in advance of those of barometric pressure , and the 12-hour potential wave is about an hour in advance of that of barometric pressure throughout the whole year .
Thus , if any relationship of cause and effect exists between- the regular diurnal changes in the two elements , the pressure change would seem to be the effect , the potential change the cause .
Explosions of Coal-Gas and Air .
By Bertram Hopkinson , M.A. , M.I.C.E. , Professor of Mechanism and Applied Mechanics in the University of Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.R.S. Received January 19 , \#151 ; Read February 8 , 1906 .
) Explosions of Coal-Gas and Air .
The experiments here described consist in an investigation into the propagation of flame through a mixture of coal-gas and air contained in a closed vessel and ignited at one point by an electric spark .
A continuous record is taken of the variation of resistance of fine platinum wires immersed in the gas , at different points ; and at the same time and on the same revolving drum the pressure is recorded .
The arrival of flame at any wire is marked by a sharp rise in its resistance .
Thus the progress of the flame can be traced .
Moreover , the rate of rise of temperature of the wire after the flame has reached it is ( after certain corrections have been applied ) a measure of the velocity with which the gases round about it combine .
In this manner it has been possible to settle in the case of certain mixtures , at any rate , the question of " after-burning , " which has long been a matter of controversy in the theory of the gas-engine , and to determine approximately the specific heat of the mixture of COg , H2O , and inert gases which are the products of the combustion .
Incidentally it has been necessary to find what relation the temperature of a fine platinum wire immersed in the VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; A. 2 E

