]\gt ; of the Value of .
( C of .
J. .
Nicholson , .
Received , 1918 .
) In vious .
on has forward evidence that the } to constituent of diamagnetic as well as of matter .
Certain ) opcrties of tetic C media can be interpreted as ln to the ects of in fo1ces which if interpreted are ) the ield iu ferro-magnetic .
This ibility that in the molecules of diama .
sltbstances there may be elements ( in such a way that the nlolecnle is , so ) erimentally the effect of applying neGic field ives a effect only .
The etic s may be represented the electron theory of netiQm by the ions : : , ( 1 ) olecular susceptibility .
of -nolecule .
ltmber of electron olbits per molecule .
netic 1lnent induced in each electron of nent M by an field H. of clecblon .
tio of to of electl ) We Jnay in tlIe , ( 2 ) an which able to deduce , the magnetic lnent of electron orbit in a netic molecule , from the molecular netic susceptibility when values ' known .
In equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) the effect of the random distribution of the molecular ) been nored .
The mechanism of the molecule must be such the in the of rotation of the electron ( produced by the external iield and to the induced netic moment is of ]nolecular orientation .
Indeed has shown ' Phil. , vol. 214 , pp. 109 14 ; vol. , pp. 79 ] .
and gnetism of the of the .
59 that the effect of an external field is simply to superimpo se upon the original motions within the molecule an angular elocity - about the direction of H. The magnitude of this rotatlo is compatible vilh the values of the induced diamagnetic moment and of the Zeeman separation .
Moreover , the sharpness of the lines iu eeman separation could ot otherwise be readily accoumted It is proposed to ) to the case of drogen .
Pascal has shown that the molecular susceptibility of a .
number of yanic liquids is sum of the at01uic susceptibilities of the component elements , with certain restrictions , on the peculiar $rouping of atoms in the molecule .
He finds that the atomic susceptibility of bydrogen in combination is , a value nearly equal to that obtained by periments with liquid .
It is , therefore , lear , that ) hydrogen in combination with other atoms in anic liquids diffels little from the atom united with another hydrogen atom to form molecule of take the molecular susceptibility of to be Now Suppose ( i.c. atom has one electron its nucleus ) .
The period of Cion of the electron we takc 10 hat correto the line cm .
; hence sec. This , course , is definite assumption , but it appears ) .
we find ( t ) Now Weiss has shown from { erro-magnctic and )netic data thal the mean experimental value of the magneton gramme is , and therefore the moment of the in the molecules of ferro-ma , etic and netic substances is *Loreutz , ' Theory of Electrons , ' p. 124 .
'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys vol. 8 .
p. 19 ( 1910 ) .
A re-calculation of the value of the tnilgnston based new tltiation of solute susceptibility of water gives the value ) .
which the value calculated from ( 2 ) by about 15 per cent. 60 of the Value of the ' This valnc differs abont 11 per cent. from ( ) deduced from the etlC }roperty .
In view of the totally diffelcnl nature of the dianetic and properties , result may be regarded as very estive .
A hydrogen molecule on this view consists of two atoms each with a single electron .
hese electrons may revolve in opposite directions , iving a Iletic molecule .
have , of course , assumed that the area of the electronic orbits is the same in each hydrogen atom .
Newtonian mechanics the stability of such a system is impossible .
It is not } ) osed here , however , to deal with this question , but merely to bring forward the numerical data above , which may subsequently be found to with the more recent view of atomic stability .
If netic stance contain we may be able to account for the the nical colubit)ation of two neticb ubstances give risc to a ance c etons .
is the case , for instance , with the nnion of copper and sulphuric acid , resulting in the folltlation of cnpric sulphate , which is paranetic and to to the molecule .
the netic properties of the Heusler alloys may be accoumted .
in , as also the loss of neCism of steels itself strongly netic ) due to the formation of interJnetallic Connds .
The forces which come into play ( tling the chemical combination may be sncl ) as to upset the lnagnetic equilibrium of each component element .
that the magnetoll is a constituent of the atom , it is of bolne to vote to the view devclol ) above , the existence of one neton in each atom implies that the radius of the electron orbit is about cm .
can readily be shown as follows :Assnme to be the radius of the orbit , the period of levoluti of the electron , and the moment of the neton .
TheIl .
With equency of the line ( Weiss ) , * we find Tf footnote , , find An of Theory of Jfagnetic Storms .
on calculation .
Thus , , which is the generally accepted order of magnitude of the radius of a hydrogen atom .
In connection with our use of the period of the line in this paper , it is interesting to note that on Ritz ' theory of the of spectral series , this line is given by the vibration of an electron under the influence of a suitably placed elementary which , according to Ritz , is not inconsistent with the magneton itself .
An Outline of Theory of Magnetic Storms .
By S. CHAPMAN , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College , Cambridge , and Chief Assistant at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Communicated by Sir F. W. Dyson , F.B.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received April 11 , 1918 .
) S1 .
This paper briefly outlines some results of a study of magnetic storms , the object of which was to ascertain their general features , leaving aside individual details and cases .
The account is limited in several respects , mathematical developments , in particular , being omitted ; this is because the paper is intended to be followed by a more complete discussion , when conditions permit .
In this future memoir I hope to deal more adequately with many points here lightly passed over , and especially with disturbance phenomena in polar regions , where magnetic conditions are scarcely ever quiet , and where the divergence between the magnetic and geographical axes of the earth introduces most complication .
Part I.\mdash ; The Magnetic S2 .
Apparently all great world-wide magnetic storms commence simultaneously to within a few seconds , *over the whole earth , although small local magnetic fluotuations may sometimes mask the commencement at particular stations .
It is therefore possible , where we are not concerned with very small time intervals , to speak of\ldquo ; storm time measured from the beginning of a storm , without reference to any individual locality .
In contradistinction to storm time , the same for all stations , is local time , which we shall reckon from local midnight .
S3 .
The principal average features of great magnetic storms , with which Cf .
' Proc. Phys. Soc. Lond May , 1918 , and the references there cited .
VOL.

