A paper was in part read , entitled " On the Optical Phenomena of certain Crystals .
" By Henry Fox Talbot , Esq. .
F.R.S. May 12 , 1836 .
The Rev. WILLIAM WHEWELL , M.A. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The reading of a paper , entitled " On the Optical Phenomena of certain Crystals , " by Henry Fox Talbot , Esq. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
In this memoir the author gives an account of the optical properties of certain minute crystals , obtained by the evaporation of a solution of borax in phosphoric acid , exhibited when they are examined by means of the polarizing microscope .
The field of view is then seen covered with minute circular spots , each composed of a close assemblage of delicate acicular crystals , radiating from the centre ; together with other circular bodies , in which this disposition is not observable , on account of the close union of the component crystals , which , producing optical contact , gives perfect transparency to the whole mass .
When the field of view is rendered dark by the rectan ?
gular crossing of the polarizing laminae , each of these little circles becomes luminous , and exhibits a well-detined dark cross , dividing its area into four equal sectors .
These crosses havea similar position in all the circles ; and their direction remains unaltered when the crystals are turned round in their own plane , by causing the plate of glass , on which they are placed , to revolve .
On examining the larger circles with a high magnifying power , and under favourable circumstances of illumination , the author observed upon each a series of coloured concentric rings : but the number as well as the colour of these rings varies in different crystals .
The innermost ring is deeply coloured , or black ; and encloses a central space of white light , which is traversed by the arms of the cross , intersecting in the centre .
This part of the cross , which stands within the innermost ring , is beautifully defined , and perfectly black , The whole system of phenomena are exactly analogous to that exhibited by uniaxal crystals ; and corresponds still more closely with those dis ?
covered by Sir David Brewster in spheres of glass , the density of which had been rendered variable from the centre to the surface by immersion in heated oil ; excepting that the miscroscopic crystals here described are possessed of a far more intense polarizing energy .
The author thinks it probable that the phenomena are in both cases produced by similar conditions of density ; which , in a circular mass formed by the aggregation of needle-shaped crystals radiating from a common centre , it is natural to suppose would rapidly increase from the circumference to the centre .
By watching the progress of crystallization he ascertained that this was , in fact , the mode in which the crystals are constructed ; for they frequently appeared , at first , in the form of lengthened prisms , which subdivided themselves at both ends into an immense multitude of divergent fibres , like those of a brush ; apparently repelling each other as they extended in length , and occupying spaces corresponding to two opposite sectors of a cir ?
cle ; until , by spreading still farther in breadth , their edges united , and filled the whole of a circular area .
In all the stages of this process , the formation of the black cross may be seen to keep pace with the developement of the crystal , until perfectly displayed on the completion of the crystalline structure .
The author notices the analogy which this structure presents with that of the crystalline lens of the cod fish , as has been lately described by Sir David Brewster j and also the remarkable correspondence existing between the optical properties resulting from this structure , and the phenomena of the cir ?
cular polarization of fluids , which have been accounted forby the existence of molecules of a structure nearly similar .
The author proceeds to examine the action of these crystals in common , or unpolarized light ; and concludes from his inquiries that each of their diameters polarized the light in the plane passing through itself and the direction of the ray ; so that the whole emergent light consists of equal portions polarized in every plane , and according to every diameter of the circle .
This action is similar to that which would be exerted by an assemblage of an infinite number of pieces of tourmaline cut into the form of infinitely small sectors , in the direction of the axis , and disposed as radii in a circle .
The author considers it probable that the tourmaline itself is an aggregate of acicular crystals of this description , disposed in a direction parallel to its axis , and being in optical contact , as well as in perfect mecha ?
nical cohesion .
In a postscript to this paper , an account is given of a new species of Dichroism in crystals , to the discovery of which the author was led by applying to them his peculiar method of observation with polarized light .
In these experiments the crystals themselves perform the office of the analysing plate , acting on light previously polarized , and transmitted through a plate of mica .
Under these circumstances , the crystals of borax , described in the first part of the paper , when examined with a lens of moderate power , appear beautifully coloured with two complementary colours , according to the position of their axes .
These experiments tend to conflrm the views of Sir David Brewster and others as to the general cause of the dichroism of cry ?
stals , which is ascribed to a difference of absorptive energy in different directions with relation to their axes ; arising from a difference of elasticity in these respective directions .

