C Fig. 2 II EE H 54321C ABE 1 F K Fig. 1 .
H GMW P H5 I B~ Fig. 3 .
N A4321DCBE 12 O AA Fig. 4 .
P BG W 21/ 2 g 5 a432112 1/ 5 10 98765~d C ~ AM cD P=1 f E ~=5 W=3 III .
A farther Examination of the Machine 's said to be without Friction .
By the same .
AT the last Meeting of the Society , I showed the Inconveniency of Mons. Perault 's new kind of Axis in Peritrochio , or Roller fixed into a large Pulley ; showing not only , that by the Use of this Engine we must lose Force , whose Value is seldom to be recompensed by the Time we gain , but also that the Stiffness of the additional Ropes which wind about the Roller , in the Operation , gives more than double ( sometimes than triple or quadruple ) the Friction of the same Engine used in the common Way , when the Pivot , or Iron Axis , is in Diameter the twelfth Part of the Diameter of the Roller , or wooden Axel .
But as some have endeavoured to render this Engine more useful , by causing it to roll up an inclined Plane , instead of making it rise directly up in the Manner described , and condemned in my former Paper ; I thought proper to show here what must be the Loss of the Power in Proportion to the Inclination of the Plane .
I say therefore , that in every Inclination of the Plane , if the Sine of the Angle of Inclination be taken in Parts of the Radius of the Axel , or Roller , the Power will be to the Weight : : as the Radius of the Roller + the Sine of Inclination , to the Radius of the Wheel the said Sine of Inclination ; that is , in the Figure , P ( = 1 ) : W ( = 3 ) : : d k : a k. ( See Fig. 4 .
) In the present Experiment BE is an inclined Plane , on which the Roller C is to roll up , touching the said Plane at the Point c ; AM is the Wheel behind that Plane , another such Plane , and equally inclined , being also supposed , behind the Wheel , to support the other End of the Roller .
The Lines of Direction of the Power and Weight being aP and d W , through the Point of Contact , or Center of Motion , c draws AD parallel to the Horizon , and perpendicular to aP and d W ; through the Center of the Engine , C draws ad Parallel to A D. Suppose the Angle BcA of the Plane 's Inclination to be 30o , the right Sine will then be equal to half the Radius ; therefore dividing C2 ( the Radius of the Roller ) into two equal Parts at k , if you draw kc and C c , the Angle kcC will be equal to Bc A , and its Sine will be C k. Now since it is evidently the same thing to make use of ad for a Lever , whose Center of Motion is at k , as of AD equal and parallel to it with its Center of Motion at c ; it follows that in this Inclination of the Plane , the Distance of the Weight dk is greater than dC ( the Distance of the Weight in the common Use of this Engine ) by the Addition of the Quantity C k , the Sine of the Angle of Inclination ; and k a , the Distance of the Power is less than Ca ( the Distance of the Power in the common Way ) by the Subtraction of the said Quantity or Sine C k : consequently that on an inclined Plane ; the Power is to the Weight : : as D c : to c A. Q. E. D. COROLLARY I. Hence it follows , that the Radius of the Wheel , and the Radius of the Roller being given , the Loss of Power may be found in any Inclination of the Plane .
Thus , as here , the Power , which in the common Way wou 'd be but 1/ 5 of the Weight , must be 1/ 3 Part of it : So if the Angle of the Plane 's Inclination was but 11o 32 ' the Power would be 1/ 4 of the Weight , &amp;c. COROLLARY II .
Hence follows also , that if the Plane BE be Horizontal , no Force of the Power will be lost , because c g : c f : : C G : C F. SCHOLIU M. As the Friction of the winding of the Ropes , such as Bc in the new Way , is greater than the Friction of the Pivot in the old Way ( besides the Friction of the Collars of the Counterpoise to the Engine ) so that Friction diminishes , as the Ropes bear less Weight , according to the Diminution of the Angle of the Plane ; and when the Plane is horizontal , and without a Counterpoise , even then the winding up of the Ropes , and Pressure of the Roller against the Plane , is equal to the Friction in the common Way .
N. B. The Experiment is made here with Pivots twelve times less in Diameter than the Roller , and fine pliable Silk , instead of Ropes .

