545 Orthoptera and Hemiptera.\#151 ; By Arthur Gardiner , F.L.S. , , ( Plate LIY .
) Fifteen species of Orthoptera were obtained by Messrs. Gulliver and Slater , one of these was , however , in an immature condition , and therefore only its genus could be ascertained ; four of the species appear to be endemic and new to science , the species of most interest being Fhisis , a form nearly allied to pectinata from the Samoa Islands , Molluccas , and Ceylon .
Of the Orthoptera previously described , seven are recorded from Mauritius and Bourbon , and three from Madagascar ; two of the latter are , however , cosmopolitan species .
Amongst the Jlemiptera of which there are 20 species , five are new to science ; two are immature and cannot be specifically identified .
With the exception of three species , the whole of the recognisable forms are referable to the Bemiptera Heteroptera .
Their geographical distribution seems to be as follows : five endemic , five occurring in Mauritius and Bourbon , and seven in Madagascar ; two of these , Nezara viridula and Conorhinus appear to be cosmopolitan or nearly so , and one species , Serinetha late , seems to be generally distributed over Africa ; in addition to these , four species have hitherto only been recorded from South Africa , and two from Algeria .
ORTHOPTERA .
Name of Species found in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas- car .
Other Localities .
Forficula auricula , Linn. - Cosmopolitan .
Forficula varicornis , Smith - X Panchlora corticum , Serville - X Congo , Wbydah .
Phyllodromia germanica , - X X Cosmopolitan .
Periplaneta americana , Linnceus - X X Cosmopolitan .
Periplaneta rhombifolia , Stole - China , Brazil .
Polyzosteria latipes , Walker - Sierra Leon .
Gryllus capensis , Fabricius - X Almost cosmopolitan .
Mogoplistes sp. ( immature ) - X Nemobius luteolus , Butler - X Phisis spinifera , Butler - - X Xiphidium iris , Serville - - X Conocephalus differens , Serville - - X Pacbytylus cinerascens , - X Old World generally .
Epachromia rodericensis , Butler - X Mantis variegata , Olivier - X Natal and Sierra Leon .
Bacillus incommodus , Butler - X 3 z ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
Forficula auricula , Linn. A single specimen taken by Mr. Gnlliver .
This insect is now almost cosmopolitan .
Forjlcula varicornis .
Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , vol. vii .
, p. 450 ( 1876 ) .
Length 4| lines .
Nigro-piceous , shining ; the palpi , month , and legs pale testaceous , the prothorax rufo-piceous ; antennae 15-jointed , joints 12th and 13th white , five or six of the basal joints rufo-piceous , as are also the palpi ; the prothorax oblong.quadrate , narrowly margined , and with a longitudinal impressed line not extending to the posterior margin ; apterous ; the abdomen smooth and shining ; the basal half of the segments with fine shallow punctures ; the apical segment with a deeply impressed longitudinal line , its posterior margin emarginate ; the forceps very stout , triangular at the base , curved inwardly beyond the middle , acute at the apex , their inner margin crenulated .
Ten specimens obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
This species vrould probably come into the genus Brachylabis of Dohrn .
F auditor a corticum , Serville .
Six examples were obtained by Messrs. Gulliver and Slater , This species has been considered synonymous with F. Surinamensis , but the African and Mascarene examples seem , to be constantly shorter in the wings than those from Tropical America .
Fhyllodromia , L. One example .
Feriplaneta americana , L. Mr. Slater collected five specimens of this species .
Feriplaneta rhom , Stole .
The four specimens obtained differ in no respect from Chinese or Brazilian examples .
Folyzosteria latipes , Walker .
Eight examples , slightly varying in punctuation .
Gryllus Eabr .
Ten examples , varying slightly in colour .
Mo sp. ( immature ) .
Two specimens .
ORTHOPTERA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLERNemobius ( Plate LIY .
, figs. 2 , 2a .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xyii .
, p. 409 ( 1876 ) .
Stramineous ; vertex of head greyish ; pronotum irrorated with brownish , with a lateral slender ridge and a central depressed line ; posterior abdominal segments greyish ; cerci as long as oviduct , hairy ; oviduct castaneous below and at the tip ; tegmina nearly extending to the end of abdomen , pale stramineous ; tibiae of hind legs with three pairs of spines , also several terminal shorter spines .
Length of body 5 millims. , of oviduct 2 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) The single example is somewhat shrunken , and may have been killed before attaining its full coloration .
The head is obtusely produced between the antennae , and is slightly depressed in the centre ; the oviduct , as usual , is curved upwards ; the wings are whitish and extend when closed to the end of the abdomen .
JPhisis spin ( Plate LIY .
, figs. 1 , la .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 410 ( 1876 ) .
Pemale .
Testaceous , pronotum oblong , greyish , with carinated margins ; abdomen greyish ; oviduct stramineous ; the femora of the two anterior pairs of legs with two converging longitudinal ferruginous lines above , of the first pair with six exterior and five interior lateral spines , distal end terminating on each side in a conical denticle ; tibiae with seven spines on each side ; femora of second pair with seven exterior short spines , inferior margin denticulated ; tibiae with six exterior and five interior spines , longer than in the femora ; femora of hind pair reddish , spinulose below ; tibiae denticulated .
Length of body 19 millims. , of oviduct 9 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) More robust than P. pectinata , rather differently coloured ; anterior femora with strong terminal conical denticles .
The oviduct is blackish at the tip , compressed , and curved upwards ; the tibiae are more strongly denticulated on their superior than on their inferior surface .
Xiphidium ir , Serville .
Two specimens of this delicate species were collected by Mr. Gulliver .
Conocephalus differens , Serville .
Eight examples .
The species obtained under this name from M. Brunner de Wattenwyl , and occurring in the Philippines , is entirely distinct ; it is a much 3 z 2 more elongated species , with the head much more produced and acuminate .
M. Serville says of his type " trouves jUTle-de-Erance , " and his description in all respects agrees with examples from Eodriguez .
Bachytylus ciner , Fabr .
Twenty examples in various stages .
Epachromia ( Plate LIY .
, figs. 3 , 3a .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 410 ( 1876 ) .
Male .
Pale carneous ; pronotum and head above brown , adorned with an X-shaped marking , intersected by a longitudinal fascia , pale carneous edged with black ; pronotum with a lateral oblique black streak , meso- and metanota testaceous , with lateral black spots ; knees black at the sides ; tibiae with three black spots below , spines black ; tegmina with the basal half coriaceous , brown , inner border whitish , base whitish-speckled , a white sub quadrate costal spot ; apical half pale brownish hyaline , crossed by ill-defined irregular white bars ; veins dark brown ; wings hyaline white , veins black .
Length of the body 12 to 18 millims. ( Coll , by Grulliver .
) This species does not vary in coloration .
Eleven specimens in various stages were taken .
Mantis variegata , Olivier .
Eifteen examples in various stages .
Bacillus in ( Plate LIY .
, figs. 4 , 4a_c .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 410 ( 1876 ) .
" Green , with red antennae , when alive .
" Ochreous , clouded with purplish brown ; eyes black ; head truncate-ovate , with central and lateral longitudinal depressed lines , longer than the pronotum ; antennae with twenty-four joints , basal joint broad , depressed ; pronotum quadrate , with obtusely carinated margins ; two longitudinal series of four obtuse well-developed tubercles ; a central depression ; mesonotum dorsally carinate , covered with tubercles ; a series of lateral tubercles between the pairs of legs ; tegmina small , wings minute , coriaceous ; anterior abdominal segments roof-like , laterally carinated , anal styles lanceolate ; anterior legs considerably the longest , the femora strongly excavated and rugulose at the base , with two internal longitudinal marginal sciics HEMIPTERA.\#151 ; -ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
of denticles ; all the legs parallelopipedous , obtusely carinated ; posterior femora denticulated below .
Length 3 inches 10 lines .
( Coll , by Gulliver and Slater .
) The pronotum might perhaps be more strictly described as irregularly lobulate , the lobes mammoid , capped with prominent tubercles , and arranged in two longitudinal series of four , between them a depressed mesial line .
The general aspect of the species is that of the genus Lopaphus , but its structural characters agree in all respects with those of Bacillus .
Live specimens were found in the island .
It is " common on leaves of fan-palm , which it resembles in colour."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
HEMIPTERA .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Name of Species found in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Phricodes hystrix , Germar iEthus sp.# ( immature ) -Nezara viridula , var leii , Hope Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas- car .
Other Localities .
X X X X X Caffraria .
S. Europe , S. Asia , Columbia .
Malaysia , Serinetha lateralis , Lethseus tartareus , -Rhyparochromus luctuosus ?
Lucas Dysdercus fasciatus , Signoret Mezira caffra , Stal Conorhinus rubrofasciatus , De Geer Oncocephalus cancellatu3 , Stal -Reduvius laniger , Butler Emesa barbara ?
Lucas -Yelia infernalis , Butler -Sigara scutellaris , Stal - Sigara sulcata , Signoret -Sigara felix , Butler Cicada sp. ( larva ) Tylana carinata , Fabricius Coccus ceratiformis , Butler Aptinothrips fasciatus , Butler X x x X X X X X X X Caffraria , Senegal , Sierra Leon , Calabar .
Cape .
Algeria .
Sierra Leon , Zanzibar .
Cape .
Sierra Leon , India , Malaysia , China , Brazil .
Caffraria .
Algeria .
Country of the River Kuisip , Namaqua Land .
x Hemiptera Heteroptera .
JPhricodes , Germar .
Lour specimens were obtained by Mr. Gulliver at Rodriguez .
JEtlms sp. ( immature ) .
One specimen .
May be J5 .
madag Nezara viridula , Linn. , leii , Hope .
If the various representatives of this species from all parts of the world ( differing in form , sculpturing , and colour ) be considered conspecific , Tentatoma of Lucas may be added to the synonymy .
One example of N. leii was taken by Mr. Gulliver " on flowers .
" Serinetha latera , Signoret .
Twenty-one examples , in various stages of development , were found by Mr. Gulliver " under stones .
" Lethceus tarta Stal .
The seven examples obtained by Mr. Gulliver differ in no respect from the Cape form .
Hhyparochromus luctuosus ?
Lucas .
Two examples .
Judging by the figure I cannot distinguish this species from that described by M. Lucas .
Dysdercus fasciatus , Signoret .
Twenty-five specimens , in various stages of development , found " on Malvaceous trees."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Mezira caffra , Stal .
Fifteen examples .
" Common under bark of trees."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Conorhinus rubrofascia , He Geer .
One specimen was obtained by Mr. Slater .
Oncocephalus cancellatus , Stal .
Ten examples were collected .
Reduvius laniger .
( Plate LIY .
, figs. 6 , 6a .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 411 ( 1876 ) .
Densely clothed with testaceous hair ; antennae slender , the three basal joints amber-yellow , remaining joints blackish ; head castaneous ; eyes blackish ; rostrum pale castaneous , dark at the tip ; thorax testaceous , with two nearly parallel longitudinal piceous bands , anterior lobe with a central longitudinal fossa ; posterior lobe with a central depression ; scutellum piceous , pale at the tip ; corium of hemelytra testaceous , with two blackish spots and a cuneiform whitish spot between them , membrane dull purplish black ; abdomen above amber-yellow , with marginal brown HEMIPTERA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
spots , below piceous , with a yellowish hand on each side ; pectus shining black ; legs amber-yellow ; the femora with central and terminal brown bands .
Length 6-| millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) One example brought home ; it is said to be " common under cow-dung."____ G. Gulliver .
c U. lanigerseems to be of about the same size as nanus , of which Stal says : " Minima milii cognita species generis .
" It cannot , however , be confounded with that insect , as , apart from its different coloration , its hairy character would alone be sufficient to distinguish it .
Emesa barbara ?
Lucas .
Two specimens , apparently immature .
" Common in the hottest time of the year , February and March."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Velia inf emails .
( Plate LIY .
, fig. 5 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 411 ( 1876 ) .
Velvety black above , two grey spots on the front of the thorax , slaty grey below ; sides of pectus whitish , anal segments of venter brown ; legs black above , brownish below ; the base of the antennae , the coxae , and the base of the femora orange-yellow .
Length 4 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Allied to V. nigricans of Burmeister , but distinguished by its dull black colouring , and the two grey thoracic spots above .
Sixteen adult examples and 15 larvae were obtained .
Sigara scutellari , Stal .
Two examples .
Sigara sulcata , Signoret .
One specimen only .
Sigara felix .
( Plate LIV .
, figs. 8 , 8a .
) A nn .
\amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 412 ( 1876 ) .
Ovate , piceous ; head rather wider than the thorax ; vertex of head and sides of tegmina whitish testaceous , below greyish brown ; legs fawn-colour ; face rugose , vertex with slender transverse irregular impressions ; thorax transversely striated ; tegmina punctured , setose .
Length 2-3 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Similar in coloration to fit .
minutissima ; but smaller and comparatively broader " Common in streams .
" \#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Twenty-four specimens were collected .
Hemiptera Homoptera , Cicada sp. { larva ) .
Pour specimens .
" Common."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Tylana , Fabricius .
One specimen .
Coccus ceratiformis .
( Plate LIV .
, fig. 9 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 412 ( 1876 ) .
Female .
Irregularly elliptical ; above with posterior central depression ; thinly covered with a fine powdery , silvery , waxy efflorescence , which conceals the coloration ; when this is removed the insect is bright yellow , often with the central area largely piceous ; about nine segmentations traceable ; under surface somewhat concave ; head sinuate in front , with an angular frontal depression , in front of which is an obtuse ridge ; rostrum situated in the fore part of a deep obovate depression ; antennae 9-jointed , pale testaceous , sparsely clothed with setae ; legs pale testaceous , rather long ( extending beyond the sides of the body in small examples ) , apparently with three tarsal joints and two terminal claws ; pediferous lobes very prominent .
Greatest length 3 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) I cannot identify this species with any of those described by Messrs. leery and Signor et .
Fourteen examples .
Physopoda .
Aptinothrips fasciatus .
( Plate LIV .
, fig. 7 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 412 ( 1876 ) .
Blackish piceous , glabrous ; wings hyaline ; bases of antennal joints , eyes , ocelli , and five broad abdominal bands crystalline white ; frons fulvous ; antennae 7-jointed , basal joint conical , the second to fourth obconical , fifth to seventh fusiform ; the HEMIPTERA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
terminal joint terminating in an acute point ; head rounded , truncate in front and behind , with a central obtuse carina and an oblique stria behind each eye .
Length 3 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) One example .
Fig. 1 .
\#187 ; la .
* 2 .
" 2\#174 ; .
" 3 .
" 3\#174 ; .
" 4c .
" 5 .
" 6 .
" 6\#174 ; .
* 7 .
\#187 ; 8 .
" 8\#174 ; .
j\gt ; 9 .
ORTHOPTERA AND HEMIPTERA .
Description of Plate LIY .
Phisis spinifera , 99 99 99 Nemobius luteolus , 99 99 " Epachromia rodericensis , 99 v \#187 ; Bacillus incommodus " 99 99 \#187 ; 99 99 99 99 99 99 Yelia infemalis " Reduvius laniger " 99 99 99 Aptinothrips fasciatus " Sigara felix - " 99 99 " 99 Coccus ceratiformis - " Profile view enlarged .
Upper surface of head and thoracic shield .
Upper surface enlarged .
Head and thoracic shield in profile , greatly magnified .
Upper surface enlarged .
Head and thoracic shield in profile , greatly magnified .
Upper surface .
Head in profile , greatly enlarged .
Terminal segments of abdomen , ventral surface , enlarged .
Terminal segments of abdomen , profile view .
Upper surface , greatly magnified .
99 99 Profile of head , " Upper surface , " 99 99 Front of head , " Anterior portion of ventral surface .
Trans ol Venus Expecl .
Rodriguez .
Zoology .
PI .
LIV Mintern Bros imp .
R. Min tenon .
del .
Ort/ HopbeiPQ/ .
\amp ; JtI CTTll p t , e V\amp ; *

