I. " On the Function of the Thyroid Body .
" By PETER MARTYN , Esq. , M.D. Lond. , Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Professor HENFrEY , F.R.S. Received November 13 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) After referring to the form , situation , connexions and internal structure of the thyroid body , its large supply of blood and its capability of sudden alterations of bulk ; the author briefly adverts to the unsatisfactory explanations which have been offered as to its function , and then proceeds to state his own views , as follows : " The upper part of the trachea , the larynx , and the passage of the fauces and mouth constitute the organ of voice ; the two former are the essential or voicing part as mechanicians call it , that which produces the tone .
The larynx and trachea-taking a share in other functions and being associated by juxtaposition and attachment with contiguous organs-are always pervious and open for respiration ; lengthell and shorten , fall and rise with the oesophagus in deglutition , and bend and turn with the universal motions of the head and neck .
" To admit of this great mobility and flexibility , a certain structure is necessary .
The larynx is a triangular box enclosing the apparatus of the chordae vocales ; its two cartilaginous sides or alae , diverging from the front , are not fixed but free at the back , being completed by soft parts : the trachea is composed of a succession of incomplete cartilaginous hoops or rings lying apart , the back and intervals being made up and the tube completed by soft membrane .
" Now the structure of a wind instrument , such as that of the humain voice is , requires the very opposite properties .
It must be rigid , tense and inflexible .
The qualities of the tone will be in exact proportion to these properties .
How then is the soft , slack and flexible vocal tube rendered thus rigid , tense and inflexible , and fit to produce pure tone ?
The muscles of the larynx , the thyro-hyoid and sterno-thyroid , merely raise or lower , or fix it in any position : not lying on , or being parallel to , but diverging from the vocal tube , they cannot effect the object referred to .
It appears to me that the thyroid body is provided for this purpose .
The act of uttering a tone or of speaking stops the return of the blood from that organ , distends and renders it tense , and from the nature of its attachment round the top of the trachea and on the free sides of the ale of the larynx , renders them fixed , firm , and tense also .
This effect is aided by the aforesaid muscles , the thyroid body being interposed and giving them more advantageous mechanical action .
This tension may be in any degree , and on energetic speaking or singing , the increased size of the part and the fulness of the collateral veins may be seen .
This is the reason of its large supply and free distribution of blood .
An instance of the want of this tension in an instrument may be seen in the bagpipe , where the porte-vent is attached to the chanter or voicing part by a flexible joint or by leather , and the tone is in consequence squeaking and uncertain .
" Besides thus giving rigidity , firmness and tension to the organ of voice , the thyroid body also acts in another capacity-as a loader .
In most musical instruments , loaders are used to render the vibrations slower and longer , and the tone in consequence fuller , louder and deeper .
They compensate for want of size and space , and give to a small instrument , or to a small vibrating or voicing part of an instrument , the power and quality of a large one .
The human organ of voice is 8 inches long , and has the same power and better quality of tone than the instrument that most nearly approaches it , - the French horn , which is 9 feet , or the " vox humana " pipe of a moderate-sized organ , which is from 4 to 8 feet long .
This economy of size in the human organ has always been wondered at , but never , that I know , explained .
Besides the thyroid body , another part , the structure of which I shall describe on another occasion , aids in this admirable economy .
The nearer mechanism of human design approaches to perfection , the more it resembles similar structures in animal mechanics .
The base of all stringed instruments and musical boxes is loaded : in most wind instruments the voicing part is thus loaded and strengthened , as in the organ pipe , horn , flute , clarionet , &amp;c. The bassoon , which in its lower notes approaches the human voice , is uncertain and wheezy in tone for want of this provision .
" When the thyroid body is small and thin , the voice will be found to be small and shrill ; when large , the tone will be full and sonorous ; when it is morbidly enlarged , the voice will be deeper and more base ; and when very large , as in bronchocele , the voice will be smothered .
" The compass of the voice is in great part produced by the raising and lowering of the larynx , the shortening and lengthening of the vocal tube .
The thyroid body partakes of this motion , at the same time firmly fixing and rendering tense the parts in each position .
By its change of shape , bulk and density-flattening and thinning when the larynx is raised , enlarging and bulging when it is lowered-it aids in giving the particular tone or pitch , high and acute in the first case , full and deep in the second ; and , in like manner , by its varying shape , bulk , density , and pressure , it takes a great part in producing the wonderful qualities of modulation and expression peculiar to the human voice .
In animated conversation , declamation and singing , this may be seen .
" Its function then appears to be threefold-rendering the slack , mobile and flexible vocal organ or tube rigid , tense and inflexible , and fit to produce pure tone ; by its bulk and density acting as a loader and strengthener , making the tone more sonorous , full and deep , and thus compensating for want of length and size in the organ ; and finally , by its varying shape , bulk , density and pressure , furnishing an important aid in producing the inimitable qualities of modulation and expression enjoyed by the human voice .
" That it is a part of the organ of voice and an important accessory in giving it perfection , may be inferred also from its situation on the larynx and trachea , and its being supplied by the same nerves-its being largest in man , where the voice and speech are perfect-its being proportionally larger in women and children than in men , their smaller and more mobile organs requiring its peculiar aid .
Among the lower animals , it is present ( at least in a fully developed condition ) only in the Mamnmlia , but among them there is a remarkable exception in the Cetacea- they have it not , and they have no voice .
In Birds , which have such great power and modulation of voice , the structure of the vocal organ and tube is different from that in man , and sufficient in itself to produce these qualities .
" The importance of the thyroid body must be admitted when it is shown to be necessary for the perfection of the voice , and hence of speech-that great and indispensable agent in the cultivating and advancing the highest faculties of man .
"

