1891 .
] The Pathogenic Fungus of .
Y. " On the Demonstration by Staining of the Pathogenic Fungus of Malaria , its Artificial Cultivation , and the Results of Inoculation of the same .
" By Surgeon J. Fenton Evans , M.B. Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Received February 7 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The discovery of organisms constantly concomitant with manifestations of malaria was made by Laveran in 1880 .
His researches have since been corroborated and amplified by numerous observers in different parts of the world , among whom must be mentioned , Marchiafava , Celli , Golgi , and Guamieri , in Italy ; Councilman , Osier , and James , in America ; and Vandyke Carter , in India .
The foreign structures which all of the above-named investigators agree in finding in the blood during or after attacks of ague may be grouped into the following classes :\#151 ; 1 .
" Cystic " bodies or spores , 2 to 11 in diameter , round , trans- parent , encapsuled bodies of variable dimensions .
2 .
Crescentic bodies , 8 to 9 long and 3 broad .
3 .
Plasmodia malariee , organisms as variable in size as the " cystic " bodies or spores , possessing the power of amoeboid movement , and so closely associated with the red blood corpuscle that hitherto the majority of observers have considered them to be parasites situated within the red blood cells .
4 .
Mobile filaments , 21 to 28 fi long .
Despite the general concord of the observations , the subject has not advanced beyond the stage of recognition of these structures in the blood , and that , too , only while in the fresh state .
No method had hitherto been discovered , of preparing permanently stained specimens of the organism .
It had never been isolated or classified , nor when thus separated had its pathogenic qualities ever been tested by experiments on lower animals .
It was thus clear that much remained to be done , and in the paper are recounted the attempts made to place the subject on a satisfactory footing .
The author has found that it is possible to stain the organisms with an anilinised alkalised solution of rosanilin hydro-c loride after treatment with bichromate of potash , and after leatment with dilute sulphuric acid by an anilinised alkalised solution of Weigert 's acid fuchsin .
vol. xlix .
p Presents .
[ Feb. 12 , Another method of staining consisted in the saturation of the tissue with a copper salt and its reduction by sulphuretted hydrogen pre .
vious to coloration with anilinised alkalised acid fuchsin .
By these staining methods the organisms have been demonstrated in the blood , and also in the tissues .
And some new , hitherto un .
recognised features are described , among which may be mentioned what appears to be the germination of the spore in the blood , the existence of a comma-shaped body and of mycelium in the spleen and Peyer 's glands , and the localisation of the plasmode , i.e. , in relation to the blood corpuscles .
The isolation of the organism and its artificial cultivation have been successf ally carried out , and it is shown that this result entirely depends for its success upon the fact that the nutrient media must be previously treated with living blood , i.e. , before rigor mortis has set in .
Alteration in the chemical composition of the nutrient medium , consisting in the addition of glucose , together with iron or haemoglobin or fresh blood , to the non-peptonised beef broth , elicited the interesting fact that , under these circumstances , the organism can pass to a more highly developed state , displaying the structure and fructification of a highly organised fungus , but differing in certain important features from any fungus hitherto described .
Inoculation of guinea pigs , monkeys , and rabbits with the growths in various nutrient media has produced a frequently fatal disease , which , although not characterised in these animals by the symptoms of classical intermittent fever , yet displayed in a number of instances a definitely intermittent character .
It was further , whatever its clinical character , invariably accompanied by the appearance of the characteristic organisms in the blood drawn after death from the right ventricle .
It is accordingly concluded that the malarial fungus is capable of being cultivated outside the body and has been proved to possess pathogenic qualities .
Presents , February 12 , 1891 .
Transactions .
Brisbane:\#151 ; Royal Geographical Society of Australasia ( Queensland Branch ) .
Proceedings and Transactions .
Vol. Part 2 .
8vo-Brisbane 1890 .
The SocietyBuenos Ayres:\#151 ; Museo de Productos Argentinos .
Boletin Mensual-Ano III .
Hum. 81 .
Resultados Botanicos de Esploraciones hechas en Misiones , Corrientes , \amp ; c. , 1883-88 .
8vo .
Aires ] 1890 .
The MuseumCambridge , Mass .
-.\#151 ; Harvard College .
Museum of Comparative

