550 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
On the [ June 17 , owing to the available energy being greater in the former than in the latter case .
In conclusion , we would commend this aluminium-iodine reaction to the consideration of other chemists , who may be investigating organic compounds containing oxygen .
V. Preliminary Note on the Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. , and F. A. Dixey , B.A. Received June 3 , 1880 .
The diaphyses of the ungual phalanges of the digits offer an exception to the usual mode of ossification of diaphysial bones ( including the other phalanges ) in the fact that the calcification of the cartilage and its attendant changes begins at the tip and not in the centre of the diaphysis .
The subperiosteal intramembranous ossification also commences at the same point\#151 ; the tip , namely , of the cartilage\#151 ; as a cap-like expansion over the end of the cartilage .
The irruption of the osteoblastic subperiosteal tissue also first occurs here , so that this part seems to correspond morphologically with the centre of the shaft of other long bones .
The expanded portion of the phalanx which bears the nail , claw , or hoof , is entirely formed by an outgrowth of the subperiosteal bone , and is not preceded by cartilage .
A detailed account of the mode of ossification of these phalanges will be shortly published .
VI .
" On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part XI , " By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received June 3 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) M. Renault has recently published a memoir , in which he reproduces the views of M. Brongniart respecting the relations which the Lepidodendra bear to the Sigillarise , still insisting that the former are cryptogamic Lycopods , whilst the latter are exogenous G-ymnosperms .
In endeavouring to establish this position , the French paleeo-botanist concludes that if the exogenous Diploxyloid stems Sigillarian ones ) are but matured states of some Lepidodendra , every Sigillarian type of organisation ought to be found in a young or Lepidodendroid form , because , he contends , the type of the central organisation , once established , undergoes no further change .
with advancing age .
In support of his position , he affirms that there are three such Sigillarian

