GENTLEMEN , IN an address lately delivered aa l[eeting of the Society for the Promotion of Social Sene , a oble Lord , a Fellow of thi Society , called the attentioni of his hearers to the advantages which the world in general had derived from the cultivationi of the physical sciences .
No one indeed can be better qualified to give an opinion on this subject than the distinguished individual to whiom I have alluded .
His first communication to the Royal Society was in the year 1796 , and was published in the G Philosophical Transactions ' for that year .
From that time to the present day he has , without any intermission , laboured for the advanicement of all kinds of knowledge , and so he still continues to labour with all the determination and energy and intellectual vigour of youth ; and I may confidently affirm that little has been done worthv of note duuring this interval of sixty-four years which has escaped his acute observation .
The influence , however , which the physical sciences have had in adding to the conveniences and comforts , and advancing the material prosperity of mankind is too obvious to escape the notice of a much less close observer than Lord Brougham .
If ouir hotuses and our cities are better and more economically lighted ; if our population is b)etter and more cheaply clothed ; if our fields are more productive ; if we travel by steam and communicate with those who are hundreds of miles distant from us by the telegraph ; if a brighter light shinles in our light-houses to guide the mariner at night ; these and a thousand of things besides are but the result of the application by practical men , of the discoveries made in the physical sciences , to practical purposes .
To the same cause may be attribuited much of the political greatness of the British niation .
The British flag floats in every sea ; our colonies are established in every region of the earth ; we contemplate in them with a reasonable pride the germs of future nations , which , when our fortune may possibly be changed , will speak the same language with ourselves , inheriting our literature , our political institutions , and not only our religion but our religious freedom , inheriting also our knowledge , and adding knowledge to it ; but none of this could have been , if it were not that the astro .
nomer had instructed the sailor how , with nlothing but the heavens above him and the waters on every side , he may find his exact position on the surface of the globe .
But it would be a grave mistake to suppose that such as those which I have now enumlerated are the only advantages which have beei derired from the cultivation iof the physical sciences .
To know their fuill extent , we must take into the account not only the Elrect bat also the indirect results to which it has led ; and I trrust that I may be ecused if , on the occasion of the prtesint any iiversary , I occupy some portion of your time , not by an elaborate discussion of the subjeet , but by oftfeing to you sore sngg , staions as to the other ways in which inquiries such as those in which yeo are yourselves engaged have already afreeted , and may be expected still move to affect hereafter , the habits , the modes of thoughit , the fort rues and moral condition of mankind .
It is not our business to depreciate tl.a t form of civilizationi which existed in timues long since past , and especially of that renarkable people who during srane centuries before and after the Christian erua were distinguished for their still unrivalled excellnec in art , thieir noble literatuLre , when Aristotle sat at the feet of his master Plato , when students in search of intellectual improvement from all parts of Greece resorted to the Lyceum of Athens , whei from opposite quarters of the M\editerranean Sea the Greek colonies of Alexandria and Syracuse supplied a list of mathelnaticians and poets to add lustre to their parent state .
Neither let us forget what we owe to another people , whose civilization is to be measured , not by their wealth and luxury , their amibition and their conquests , but by those monuments of art which still draw visitors to Rome , their historians , muoral philosophers , and poets .
Btut , great as are the obligations which we owe to these nations of antiquity , it cannot be denied that the civilizationi which exists among as at the present time is of a higher order than that which existed formerly : and it is not difficuilt to show that it is to the greater extension of a kilowledge of natural phenomena , and the laws which governl them , that this improvement is mainly to be attributed .
Kiiowledge and wisdom are indeed not identical ; and every man 's experience must have taught him that there may be mi oh knowledge with little wisdom , and much wisdom with little knoiwledge .
But with imperfect knowledge it is difficult or impossible to arrive at right cornclusions .
Many of the vices , maniy of the miseries , many of the follies and absuLrdities by which hulman society has been infested and disgraced may be traced to a wanit of klowledge .
It was from a want of knowledge that Roger Baconi was persecuted by the Franciscan monks , and Galileo by the Inquisition ; that Servetus was burned by Calviin ; while others woould have bhiriied Calvl ion his turn if th ey had had the opportinity of doing so .
So it was that juries were found to convict and judge es to condemin poor ignorant womeii as witehes ; that within the last two cenlturies welleducated meii believed that they mi-ght read tYeir destiny in the stars ; and that as lately as the year 1638 , oii the occasion of the birth of Louis XIV .
, Richelieu compelled the dunigeons of the Inqiiisition to give up the astrologer CampanHella , in order that he might cast the horoscope o ' the futnre lcing ; and so it is that at the present day grown-up ladies and gentlemnen ioccupy themselves writh the humbler and less romantic mysteries of turning and rapping tables .
Cooperating with a purer religious faith , the advaucemenut of knowledge has hunanized our institutions .
It has banished slavery ; it has caused our Iaws to be more merciful , and the admninistration of them mor e just ; it has promoted religious and political freedom , and , with one or two miserable exceptions , it has renidered even despotic governmeents more atteutive to the claims and wislhes of their subjects .
If sanitary and other im provement % ( these being the resuilts of greater knowledge ) have added to the average length of human life , be it observed that this fact includes aniother fact , namely , that they have added to human happiniess ; for true it is that the causes which tend to the shortening of life are with few exceptionrs , sueh as produce either phy sical pain or moral s , uffering .
The iniiestigation of the physical scieiees is especially favourable to the training of some of the more inportant faculties of the mind , so that we may well anticipate much ulPiinate advautaage from the movement which is already begur , having for its object , not to supersede the study of ancient laiguages and ancient literature ( which at the present time , in additioni to mathematics , are supposed to form the staple of a first-rate educa tion ) , but to add an elenientary kInowledge of the prinmipal physical scienees to the list .
The including of some of these at least in the instruction of early life will operate beneficially in various ways , The first step in all physical investigatiois , even in those which admit of the application of mathematical reasoning and the dedctive method afterwards , is the observation of natural phenomenia ; and the smallest error in such observation in the beginning is sufficienit to vitiate the whole inirestigation afterwards .
The necessity of strict and minulite observation , them , is the first thing which the student of the physical sciences has to learn ; and it is easy to see with what great acdvantage the habit thus acquired may be carried into everything else afterwar(ds .
Sloveenly habits of observation arei indeed the source of a large proportioni of the evils which mankind brinog upon themselves-of blunders in private life by which any individual causes the ruiin of himself and his wife and childreni , of blunders in statesmanship which bring calamities on nations .
It is to these , moreover , that imYipostors and fanatics of all kinds and in all ages have been inidebted for their influence and success .
It would be easy to show how in various other ways the study of the physical sciences cannot fail to be a useful training for the mind .
Very much indeed might be said on this subject ; but to einter fully into it would not only occupy too much of your time , but would involve us in a metaphysical discussion unsuited to the plresent occasion .
There are , nevertheless , two or three points to which I shall venture , however briefly , to allude .
Inivestigations of this kind , more than almost any other , inmpress the mind with the necessity of looking carefully at both sides of a questioni , and strictly comparing the evidence on one side with that on the other ; and in this manner they help to correct and improve the judgment .
As in every such investigation classification is an important and indeed a necessary element , another effect is that of promoting and strengthening the best kind of memory-a memory founded on some actual relation of objects to each other , and not on mere apparent resemblance and juixtaposition .
Lastly , physical irnvestigations more than anything besides help to teach us the actual value and the right use of the imagination , of that wondrous faculty which , left to ramble uncontrolled , leads us astray into a wilderness of perplexities and errors , a land of mists and shadows ; but which , properly restrainied by experience and reflection , becomes the nioblest attribute of man the source of the poetic genius , the iinstrumeint of discovery in science , without the aid of which Newton would never have inivenited flluxiolis , nor Davy have decomnposed the earths and alkalies , nor would Coluirnbus have found another continent beyond the Atlantic Ocean .
In the pursuit of the physical sciences , the imaginiation supplies N '1 ; 6 the hypothesis which bridges over the gulf that separates the known-i from the unknown .
It may be only a phantoom ; it may prove to be a reality .
Btit as these sciences relate to matters of fact which , if not directly , may be made indirectly cogniza-ble by the external senses , they a ford uis peculiar facilities , far beyond what exist in othiiei departmenits of knowledge , of testingr the accuracy of the views which the imaginationi has suggested , so that we may at once determine whenl it has beenl too excursive , und , if it las been so , call it back to its right place .
There mta1ty be instances of nierre ac &amp; dental discovery ; but , setting these aside , the great advances iade in the inductive sciences are , for the most part , preceded by a more or less probable hypothesis .
The imaginiation , having some small lig , ht to guide it , goes first .
Further observation , experimei-nt , and reason follow Thus , for example , it had been long suspected that there is some sort of relation between electricity and magnetismln .
I iuch thinking on the subject had strengthened this suispicion in the mind of Oersted .
Still it was but a hypothesis , and dnight even now have beenl regarded by many as no better than a dream , if it had not been that in the year 1820 the Danish philosopher devised the experiments which demonstrated the law of reciprocity between an electric current and the magnet , and the identity of the two forces .
As an instanlce of an opposite kinid , I may refer to the doctrine of phlogiston as propounded by Stahl .
While the art of chemical experiment was imperfectly understood , that doctrinie was very generally received as affording a true explanation of the phenomena of combustion .
But no sooner had Lavoisier and his friends introduced a more accurate mode of experiment by weight and measure , than it was proved to have no founldation in reality , and consigned to the same place in the history of science with epicycles and vortices and animal spirits .
But the effect of some kind of instruction in the physical sciences being recognized as an essential part of a liberal education , may be contemplated under another point of view .
Except in the case of particular professions or occulpations , a profound knowledge of these subjects is not required ; but there is no situation in life in which some knowledge of them may not be turned to a good account .
Is there any couintry gentleman or farmer who might not derive advaantage from kinowing something of vegetable physiology and chemiiistry ?
-would not a knowleedge of scientific botany make a nail a better gardenier ?
--is there any counlty mriagistrate , or mayor , or aldermnani of a borough , to whom it would not be useful to know something of the principles on which what are called sanitary measures are to be conducted ?
-and is there anyolne in any situation in life to whorn it would not be a benefit to know something of animal physiology , of the functions of his own body , and of the influence which his bodily condition exercises over those mnoral and intellectual faculties by whichI he is distinguished from the rest of the allimal creation ?
If it did not teach him how to cure disease , it might be useful for him to know how far disease may cure itself , and what are the limits of Nature in this , respect ?
To main , looking at him as an individual , there is no art so imyiportant as that of understanding and managing himself , -an art so simply and well expressed by the two significant words rhBo acavr'o'v , which were iniscr-ibed over the heathen oracle of Delphi .
To correct bad habits when once acquired is no very easy task ; a stronig sense and a strong will , such as only a limited number of persons possess , are necessary for that purpose .
But it would go far towards preventing the acquirement of such habits , if young persons , during the period of their educationi , were made to understand the ill consequences to which they must inevitably lead , and bow , eventually , the body must suffer and the mind be stulpefied and degraded , not by the reasonable indulgence , but by the abuse of the animal instinicts .
In the Introduction to his ' Inquiry into the h--uman Understanding , ' IDavid flume , having referred to the remarkable progress which had been lately made in a knowledge of astronomy and other physical sciences , has suggested that " the same method of inquiry , which has been applied with so great advantage in these sciences , might also be applied with advaantage to those other sciences which have for their object the mental power and economy .
" I call your attention to this reimark , because it brings me to the consideration of another subject , namnely , tleX iniufluce which the pursuit of the physical sciences , conducted as it has been more or less since the days of Galileo and IKepler , has exercised over other studies , and in the advancement of other kinlds of knowi-ledge .
It nleecs no argument to prove , for it m-ist be sufficienitly plaini to everyone , that other scienlces as well as the physical have at the present time a very diff'erent character from that whiicl they had formerly .
It was probably froimi the operation of varioujs causes ( a principal onie , however , being the too exclusive and uniduie importance attached to the Aristotelian logic in the schools ) , that some centuries had elapsed since the revival of learning before the indnctive method ( which , by the way , is n1othing more than the logic which we all malke use of instinctively in the ordinary concerns of life ) became generally applied to the investigationi of the phenomena and laws of the material universe .
But a still firther time elapsed , even after the publication of Lord Bacon 's views on the subject , before other sciences began to partalie of this movement ; and when they did so , it seems not possible to doubt that it was the result of the impulse which the rapid growth of the physical sciences had communicated to theem .
That such was the opinion of David flume as to the influenethus exercised on one class of iniquiries in which he was hinmself engaged , I have already shown .
But lonig before Ilnume wrote , the same impressionl had existed on the mind of Locke , as will be sufficiently obvious to anyone on reading the Introductory Chapter of his ' Essay on the Human Understanding .
' In fact Locke had originally directed his attention to Natur al Philosophy and TMedicine ; and his researches in Mforal and Intellectual Philosophy were engrafted on his earlier studies .
So in the case of Dr. Berkeley : his treatise orn ' Vision ' contains the essenitial part of those doctrines which he afterwards published in his ' Treatise on the Priniciples of HIumanl Knowledge ; ' and it is easy to see hov , step by step , these gradually arose out of his former studies of Natural Philosophy .
I make lno reference to the modern German schlool of metaphysicians , and indeed am quite incompetent to do so .
Neither do I refer to another order of metaphysicians , one of whom informs us how ideas and emotionis arid volitions are produced by big and little vibrations of the molecules of the nervouis system ; while anGther undertakes to explain " the action of material ideas in the mechanical machines of the brain .
" B1ut with regard to the more eminenit of our English writers on these subjects , and what has been called the Scotch school of metaphysicians , inclulding Reid , Adam Smith , Dugald Stewart , and Brown , it may be truly asserted that the advantage which they have had over the dreamy metaphysiciaiis of former times is to be attributed to their having in their mode of in-quir y followed the example which had been set them in the study of the physical sciences .
I must not exhaust your patience by going on to explore so wide at field as that on which I have just entered .
The subject is one to which justice cannot be done witholut a muich more ample discussion than would be convenient oln any occasion like the present .
All that I shall say besides may be comprised in a very few words .
In composing , his ' Essays ' on what is n1ow called Political Econiomy , we may presume that David IHume 's mind was inifluenced by the same considerations as when he composed those other Essays to which I have alluded ; and it is not too muuch to say that these researches of I-lume 's may be regarded as having , more than anytbing besides , contribuited to lay the foundationl of that vast scienlce which has been since developed through the labours of Adam Smith and Horimer , and of others who are still alive among us .
At the same time , in giving this credit to Hlume , we must not overlook what is due to one of our own body , and an original Fellow of the Royal Society .
Sir William Petty contributed several papers to the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' In an early part of hiis life he had been enigaged in giving lectures on Anatomv and on Chemistry at Oxford ; and his mind having been thus prepared he entered on the considel'ation of other subjects , such as taxation and trade as affecting the material prosperity of nations , and social statistics .
Ilis 'Discourse on Political Arithmetic ' seems to have been the last result of his labours , it having been first published after his death , by his son , Lord Shelburne .
In his Preface to this Discourse he thus expresses himself ( and I quote the passage because it will serve to show how io these later investigations his mind was influenced by those in which he had been previously engaged ) : - " the method I tale to do this is not very usual : for , inistead of usingi only comparative and superlative words , and intellectual arguments , I have takeln the course ( as a specimeni of the political arithmetic I have long aimed at ) to express myself in terms of number , weight , or measure ; to use only arguments of sense , and to consider only such causes as have visible foundations in Nature .
" It would be easy to adduce from other sciences analogous illustrations of the proposition which I have ventured to advance .
Compare the natural theology of Derharn , Paley , and the Bridgewater Treatises , all founded on the observation of natural phenomena , with the speculations of the ancient philosophers , or with the abstractions .
and a priori arguments of Dr. Samluel Clarke .
Comnpare the vtnr'avclling of early history by Niebuhr and Ariiold with anytlling regarding history that had been done before , or the best practical treatises on politics and goveriinenlt of moderni times with the elaborate but fanitastic schbme of Plato 's republic .
If I have made too large a deimarld on your patience by dwelling on matters which have no special or exclisive relation to ouir body , you will , I hope , accept it as a sufficient apology that I have done so under the impression that whatever relates to the advancement of knlowledge generially cannot be altogether uniinteresting to those w'ho are the living represenitatives of the great men by whom the Royal Society was founded , and who themselves now constitute the most ancient scienitific iastitution in the world .
Looking at what more particula-rly coneernis ourselves , I uriay coIt gratulate yi ou on the results obtained duLriDg the last vear .
La th vola-me of the I Philosophical Transactions ' which is nowiin the course of publication , we fha I that there is scar cely any departmeiit of pl)y sical knowledge which is not honourably represented ; at the same time that , besides the abstracts of the pri icipal papers , malny inivestigations which have not been deermed to be of sufficient importance , or suficie itly origir'al to have a place in our annual volume , bhLt which nevertheless are of considerable iinterest , are recorded and published from time to time in the smaller volume bearing the title of I The Royar Society 's Proceedings .
' By means of this less pretentious publication many facts , mal thoughts and sggestions are e prestdv , wh-ih might otherwise have been neglected or lost , but which , beil'g thus preserved , may prove to be of much value hereafter .
Our weelly Hmeteting have been1 well attenided , and have b en ire mdered more attt-rictive by a practice wnich is not alto , ether new , bat which has beei more gelnerally adopted than .
heretofore during the last Session ; T allutde to that of te authors of p pers coCtmumri icted tlo uis givi'tic art : oral or vivd voce ecx11lannatio of their coatents , ----those explanationrs being sendered n1ore intelligible by a referen ce to diagrra'ins , or to the ap-paratus tased ( i:r experiae i. , t,8 , raad1 eveni by expex ; hnents actually displayed .
du1ch ulIttstrations a-ro 'oseUld botih to the authors and to ot'heis , by cawshig the sibiject -iriatter of the severt corrnuruni artions to be better unIderstood n and they arec usefil n ai0nother way , ils-fti ac'ir as they lead to conversations and discussions , and to the inter'han , ge of opinion at the time , from which we may all of us derive somethlilg to think of , and reflect on afterwards .
Ilaving occupied so much of your timie already , I do not feel justified in making a further demand on it by entering , inito a recapitulation of what has beeni donie in the way of scientific discovery during the last year .
There is , however , onie subject to which I am led to advert because it is of more than usual interest , not only Onl account of its coiniexion with scientific investigationis , but also on other grounids .
After an initerval of two years , Captain M'Clilntock and those who were associated with hiiim have returnied in safety from their voyage of discovery , and their inivestigationis in the Arctic regions .
The result has beeni that , although our most earniest wishes have not beeni realized , it caninot be said that our more reasonable expectations have beeni disappointed .
Theie secemied to be no more than a small probability that any of those who accomupanied Sir Jolhn Franiklin when lie quitted his native country in the year 1845 should be still alive in the dreary and inhospitable regions in which , after the loss of their vessels , they had beenimprisoned .
Captain M'Clintock 's careful iinquiries have fully dissipated whatever faint hopes might have been entertained of its being , otherwise , leaving us only the poor conisolation of knowing that the sufferings of these gallanit spirits are at an end .
As scienltific discoverers , Captaini MA'Clintock and his officers have well fulfilled their mission , as is proved by the magnetic observations which Captain M'Clintock has already communicated to the lloyal Society , and of which General Sabine , with his usual perspicuity , gave us some accoulnt at one of our evening meetings .
In speaking of those engaged in the late expeditioni , I alml unlwilling to pass over in silence the name of Mr. Young , who , having becen the commander of a merchant-ship , took so much interest in the projected eniterp rise that he not onlycontributed , ?
500 towards defraying the expenses of it , but voluniteered his piersonal services on the occasionl , by acting as master of the vessel .
Nor ought I to omnit to notice the uarle of Pr .
Walker , who , bein-g cigaged as surgeon , actd .
also as naturalist to the expedition , and availed himnself of such sca-ity opportunities as those ice-boun(I counitries afford of extending his researches in natural history .
Of the resuilts which he has beena able to obtain I am not in a colndition to give youi an account at I V present ; but they will , I doLubt not , in due tiymie be communicated to the public .
The greatest honour which the Royal Society has to bestow , iamely the Copley Medal , has been awarded to Professor Wilhelm Eduard Vreber of G6ttingen , foreign member of the Royal Society , for his inivestigationis contained in bis ' AIIaasbestimmungen ' and other researches in electricity , magnetism , acoustics , &amp;c. The first work in which Professor Weber was engaged was ' The Theory of Undulations , ' published in conjuinction with his brother Ernest in 1825 .
This work is still onie of standard authority .
It conitains not only a complete account of all that was previously known oin the subject of waves in water , but is the repository of many original and important experiments throwing light on this subject .
The volume contailns also many valuable investigations in acoustics .
Subsequently to this , Professor Weber commuinicated to Poggendorff 's 'Annalen ' numerous memoirs containinrg his further observations in acoustics , among which were his experiments on the lonlgitudinal vibration of rods and strings ; on reed organ-pipes ; on grave harmonic souinds ; arid also his method of determining the specific heat of bodies by their sonorous vibrations .
In this department of physical science he has been a worthy coadjutor of Chladni and Savart .
In association with his brother Edward , then Anatomical Prosector in Leipsic , he in 1835 published the details of an anatomical , physical , and mathemnatical inivestigation of the mechanisnm of the humaan organs of locomotion , one result of which was the promulgation of a theory of aniInal progression more nearly in accordance with observed facts than any that had been proposed previously .
On his association with M. Gauss in the Magnetic Observatory at GUttingen , Professor Weber devoted himself almost exclusively to the subject of magnetism and electricity .
The annual volumes of the 'Results of the Observationis of the Magnetic Union , ' published by these enminent philosoplhers between 1838 and 1843 , contain the description of several new instruments , some of which have been the models of those which are now used in all observatories .
They include also a great variety of important original researches .
It ought not to be omitted that the researches of Gauss and Weber with reference to the transmission of electric signals did more to excite attention to the practicability of an electric telegraph than anything that had been done previously .
In 1846 Professor Weber published a memnoir on " The Measures of Electro-dynamic Forces " ( " Electrodynamische Maasbestimmungen " ) , a work not less remarkable for the original mathematical than for the experimental researches embodied in it .
A high authority has pronounced this to be " one of the ml-ost important works both with regard to mathematical theory , and the practical application of it , that has been published in this department of science since the researches of Ampere ; " and the same authority has added , " His transformation of Ampere 's law of electric action , so as to exhibit the analyses of the Plus and minus elements in each stream , and his deduction thence of the law of statical from that of dynamical action , seems to me , both as a specimen of mathematical analysis and of physical philosophyr , exceedingly beautiful .
" More recently Professor Weber has produced two additional memoirs on the same subject , one of which contains a mathematical and experimental investigation of the phelnomena of dia-magnetism discovered by Faraday .
PROFESSOR MILLER , As I have not the opportuniity of presenting it to him in his own person , I request of you , as Foreign Secretary , to cause the Copley M edal which I now place in your hands to be conveyed to Professor Weber , with a request that he will be pleased to accept it as the inidication of the very high estimation in which his scienitific labours are held by the Royal Society of London .
Onie of the Royal Medals has been awarded to Arthur Cayley , Esq. , F.R.S. , for his Mathematical Papers published in the Philosophical Transactions , and in various English and Foreign Journals .
From the first institution of the Royal Society a large proportion of the papers communicated to them have related to Pure Mathematics ; and nione have contributed more than these to maintain the credit of the Philosophical Tranlsactionis .
Among writers of the present time , no one has been a more earnest or more successful labourer in this department of scienice than Mr. Cayley .
His numerous papers on these subjects bear testimoniy to his unwearied industry , and the ulndlivided opinion as to their value aid importance held by those who are best qualified to judge of them , sufficiently establishles M\r .
Cayley 's claim to be regarded as onte of the most eminent and profounid mathematicianis of the age in which we live .
Mr. Cayley is among the foremost of those who are successfully developing what may be called the oryanic part of algebra into a new branch of scieniee as much above ordinary algebra in getnerality as ordiniary algebra is itself above arithmuetic .
The effect is a vast augmentation of our power over the comparison and transformation of algebraical forms , and greatly inicreased facility of geometrical interpretation .
To give any full account of AMr .
Cayley 's labours would be impossible , from mere wanit of space ; and such account , were it given , would be intelligible to noone but the highest order of inathematicians ; moreover , yout are well aware , it couid4 not come from my own knowledge of the stibject .
I have , however , considered it my duty to lay something be-fore you , in the most genieral terms of description , about these very remarkable papers , obtained froma those who are competent to describe them .
Mr. Cayley 's memoirs relate almostexclusively to pure mathenmatics ; and a considerable proportion of them belonig to the subject Quan-tics , defiined by him to denote the elntire subject of rational and integral ftunietions , and of the equations and loci to which these give rise ; in particular the memoirs upon lirnear transformationis and covariants , and many of the memoirs upon geometrical subjects , belong to this head .
Among the memoirs upon other subjects may be uention-ed Mr. Cayley 's earliest mnemoir ( 1841 ) in the Cambridge M athenmatical Journal , " Oin a Theorem in the Geometry of Position , " which contains the solution in a compendious form , by means of a determiniant , of Carnot 's problem of the relation betweeni the distaniees of five points in space ; tlih memoir in the same Journal , 1 ' Oni the Properties of a cortaoin Symbolical Expression , " which is the first of a series of memoirs upon the attractionof ellipsoids , and the multiple integrals coiieceLd therewith ; a eMo10ir in .
Liovuille 's Jouninal , which contaias the extension of the theoiry of Laplace 's fuincetions to any number of variables ; and the memnoirs in the same two Journals , on the inverse elliptic i-ntegrals or douLbly periodic fulictionls .
The earliest of the inemoirs upon ' li-Lear transformations was published ( 1845 and 1846 ) in the Cambridge and the Cambridge and Dub ln Mathematical Jourmals , and under a differeat title in ' Crelle .
' The anitecedenit state of the problem was as follows:-The theory of the linear transformnations of binary and ternary quadratic frnctions had been established by Gauss , the same being in fact the foundation of his researchbs upon qu adratic formiis , as developed in the l iecherches Arithnmetiques ; a and that of the linear transformations of quadratic functions of any niumnber of variables had been .
considered by Jacobi and others .
A very important step was made by Mr. Boole , who showed that the fundaiemntal property of the determinant ( or , as it is now comaronly called , discriminiarnt ) of a quadratic form applied to the resultaiit ( discriniiaiit ) of a form of any degree and niunber of variables , the property in q iestion being , ia fict , that of remnaining unaltered to a factor pris , whei a the coefficie ats are altered by a lillear transformation of the variables , or as it may for shortness be called , the property of invariancy : the theorem just referred to , suggested to M Jr. Cayley the researches which led him to the discovery of a class of fuLtnctions ( including as a particular case the discriminant ) , all of them possessad of the same charaateristic property .
These fiunctionis , called at first hyperdeterminaits , are now called inivariants ; they are included in the more general class of functions called covariants , the difference being that these contain as well the variables as the coefficients of the given form or forius .
The theory has an extensive application to geometry , and in particular to the theory of the singuilarities of curves and surfaces .
This theory for plane curves was first established ( 1834 ) by Plicker upon geometrical priinciples ; the aialytical theory for planie cuirves is the subject of a memoir by Jr. Cayley in 'C relle , ' and of his recent memoir in the Phi .
losophical Transactions , " c On the Doubl Tangents of a Plane Curve , " based upon a Note by Mr. Salmon .
The corresponding geometrical theory for curves of double curvature and developable surfaces , was first established in Mr. Cayley 's memoir on this subject in ' Liouville ' and the ICambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal .
' The theory for surfaces in general , is mainly due to Mr. Salimon .
Amonlg iMr .
Caylev 's other memoirs upon geometrical subjects , may be mentioned several papers on the Porism of the in-and-circumscribed polygon , and on the corresponiding theory in solido ; a memoir oil the twelntyseven right lines upon a surface of the third order , and the memoir in the Philosophical Transactions , " 1 Orn Curves of the Third Order .
" The memoirs onX Quiantics in the ' Philosophical Trarnsactions ' ( forming a series not as yet completed ) comprise a reproduietionl of the theory of covariants , and exhibit the author 's views on the genieral subject .
Mr. Cayley has written also a Report on the recent progress of theoretical Dynamics , published in the 'Reports of the British Associationl ' for 1857 .
Mut .
CAYLEY , In the name of the Royal Society of London , I request your acceptance of this Royal Medal , in testimony of ' the strong sense which they entertaini of the value of your labours , and of the satisfaction which it affords them that so eminent a mathematician as yoourself shiould be included in the list of their Fellows .
The other 1Royal Medal has been awarded to Mr. George Bentham , $ F.L.S. , for his importanit contributions to the advancement of System-iatic and Descriptive Botany .
The remarkable accuracy which distirnguishes all Mr. Bentham 's scientific researches , the logical precision that characterizes his writings , and the sound generalizations which his systematic works exhibit may be in a great measure traced to the influeince of his uncle , the late celebrated legal theorist Jeremiy Bentham , who directed much of his early studies , and unider whose autspices he published one of his earliest works , 'Outlines of a New System of Logic .
' His mind was further imbued in youth with a love of Natural History , and especially Botany ; and this taste was cultivated and nourished by a study of the works of the elder DeCandolle .
Fortunately for the cause of Botany in Enigland , Mr. Bentham has devoted himself almost exclusively to that science ; and to his excellent powers of observation , close reasoning , concise writing , and indefatigable perseverance our country owes the distinetion of ranlkingt among , st its Naturalists onie so preetminienit for his valuable labours in Systematic Botany .
Amongst Mr. Benthamn 's numerous writings , those hold the first rank which are devoted to the three great natural orders , Leguminosw , Labiate , and Scrophulariace e. These orders demanded a vast amount of analytic stucly ; for they are amongst the largest and most widely distributed of the vegetable kingdom , and had been thrown into great confusion by earlier writers .
They have been the subject of many treatises by Mr. Benthamn , and especially of two extensive works , the contents of which have lately been embodied in the Svstema Vegetabiliumn " of the DeCandolles .
On their first appearance these works secured for their author a European reputation , and will always rank high as models of skilful classification .
It would occupy too imuch time to specify the very numerous monographs and papers which IIMr .
Bentham has communicated to various scientific societies and periodicals in this country and on the Continenlt , and especially to the Linnean Transactions and Journal .
That " On the Principles of Generic Nomenclature " may be noted as an example of his power of treating an apparently simple , btit really abstract and difficult subject in a manner at once philosophical and practical .
Mr. Bentham 's imiost recent work , that on British Plants , is the first , on the indigenous Flora of our Islands , in which every species has been carefully analysed and described from specimens procured from all parts of the globe ; it is distinguished for its scientific accuracy , advanced general views , and extreme simplicity , -a combination of qualities which can result only from an extensive series of exact observations , judiciously arranged and logically expressed .
MIR .
BENTHAM , The early volumes of the ' Philosophical Transactions ' contain numerous paDers relating to Botany and the other sciences which are usiually comprehended under the general designation of Natural Historv .
As these sciences , but especially Botaniy , became more and more extended , it was thought desirable that another Institution should be called into existence , which might share with the Royal Society the privilege of promoting the cultivation of them , and of communicating to the world from time to time the progress which has been made in this department of knowledge and such was the origin of the Linnlean Society in the year 1788 .
The Royal Society , however , does not on that account feel the less interest in this class of scientific investigations .
It is accordingly with great satisfaction that the Council have awarded to you one of the Royal Medals , and that , in the name of the Society , I now place it in youir hands , in testimony of their high appreciation of your researches , and of the respect which they have for you as a fellow-labourer in the field of science .
On the imotioni of M r. Faraday , seconded by Sir Henry Holland , the best thanks of the Society were voted to the President hr his excellenit address , and no w as requested to permit the str , me to be printed .
[ For the Obituary INTotices of Decease0d Fellows the reader is referred to the end of the VoluLme .
] The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers having been read , and AA r. Crisitie and Dr. M ayo having beeim , with the consent of the SocLety , nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fel lows present were collected .
The following Fellows were reported duly elkected Officers and Council for the ensuing year : Pr-esident.-Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. , D.C.L. Treasurer.-Major General Edward Sabi-ne , R.A. , D.C.L. Secretaries .
William Shlarpey , MID .
George Gabriel Stokes , Esq. , Mi .
A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.--Williain Hallows ifTiller , Esq. , M.A. Other Members of the Conctil.-C .
Cardale Babington , Esq. , MX .
A. ; Rear-Admiral Sir George Back , D.C.L. ; Rev. John Barlow , M.A. ; Thomas Bell , Esq. ; Arthur Cayley , Esq. ; William Far , M1.D .
, D.C.L. ; Sir HLIolland , Bart.,.D .
, D.C.L. ; ThomasHenryHullxey , Esq. ; Sir Roderick I. Murchison , l.A. , D.C.L. ; Thomas Webster , Esq. , I.A. ; Rev. William Whewell , D.D. ; Alex .
W/ illiam NVilliamson , Ph. D. ; Fev .
Robert IvVillis , M.A. ; Sir William Page Wood , D.C.L. ; The Lorcl Wrottesley , M.A. ; Colonel Philip York .
... .~ P ; j 0 : .
, -4 0~~ 0 ; p ~~4 ~~ ~ !
040 ~~~~~ ~~~ S~~~~~~~~~~r ~~-d ~~ 04PJ ; Pi Pi p Qr-0 Q *p 0QQ -vtS0 0rl 1 bb 0~~~~~~~~~~ I 8( The following Table shows the progress and( present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows Patron Ilaving Paying Paying and Foreigni .
corn ?
2 12s . ?
4 Total .
[ Honorary .
poun(led .
aiinnually .
annually .
December 1 , 1858 9 50 365 7 275 706 Since elected ... + 4 ... ... +13 + 17 Since deceased. .
-2 -16 -11 -32 November 30 , 1859. .
7 47 353 7 277 691

