On the Parallacx of certain fixed Stars .
By the Rev. John Brinkley , D.D. F..R.S .
and Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin .
Read March 5 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 275 .
] Since the author 's former observations on the parallax of a Lyre , published by the Royal Society in a Letter to Dr. Maskelyne , he ( the author ) has met with apparent motions in several of the fixed stars , which lie could only explain by referring them to parallax .
Amorng these stars , a Aquilae exhibited the greatest change of place .
In consequence of the Astronomer Royal having doubted the correctness of the author 's conclusions upon this point , he has anxiously engaged in observations relating to it during the last sixteen months ; and although the results in respect to a Lyrse and to Arcturus have not been very uniform , the recent observations on ac Cygni are consistent with the former ones , and exhibit the same discordance between the summer and winter observations as before .
In regard to a Aquilm also , the observations detailed in the present paper are remarkably coincident with those formerly detailed ; and the author thinks that it is to this star we must look for the final decision of the question concerning parallax .
Referring to Mr. Pond 's observations , Dr. Brinkley is led to entertain doubts of the fitness of an instrument similar to the Greenwich mural circle for so delicate an inquiry , founded upon remarks detailed in the paper respecting the elements used in computing the index error , and which are independent of the uncertainties to which the observation itself is also subject .
It is , however , from the uncertainty of the elements used in the reductions , and not from any errors of the observations , or from any defect in the construction of the instrument alluded to , that Dr. Brinkley is induced to consider the observations hitherto made at Greenwich as not affording conclusive results as to the existence or non-existence of parallax .
In the present state of astronony , however , it will be allowed that the relative fitness of instruments for ascertaining with precision the smaller motions , whether real or apparent , of the fixed stars , is an object of importance .

