An Extract of an Italian Letter Written from Venice by Signor Jacomo Grandi , to an Acquaintance of his in London , concerning some Anatomical Observations , and two odd Births : English 'd by the Publisher , as follows .
HAving been honoured here with the place of Public Anatomist of Venice , though I have given as yet but a very slender account of my performances , in comparison of the illustrious example of Mundinus , Veslingius , Molineta , &amp;c. yet I shall acquaint you with some particulars that have occurred to me .
In my Anatomical Dissections of the first Year , I met with nothing curious , but the Virsungian Channel , manifestly inserting it self in the Spleen , and admitting a Silver-stiletto ; which I had never observed in any Corps : And then , a Liver divided into five Lobes , together with a Spleen of the figure of a Saw , of extraordinary bigness .
Last year , one drowned of about 35 years of age , had the lacteous vessels so apparent and so big , that having shown them how they lay in the body , I showed them yet the day after , in the Mesentery taken out and displayed upon a Table .
Besides , I lighted upon two odd Births ; one was of TwinFemales , very handsome , but so fastened together by the breast , that there was not discerned but one only Trunk of the body ; which having their Chin united together , seemed to kiss one another .
I could not dissect them as I would , because they were delivered to me to embalm , and the indigent Father of them , who looked for gain , would not let me have them but for a great Sum of money .
Wherefore , not to spoil them for the purpose designed , having only opened them upwards from the Navel , which was common to them both , I took out the Intestins , the Stomach , the Heart , the Lungs .
There was but one Heart , though greater and rounder than ordinary , so that Nature seemed to have united the matter of two into one .
They had two Lungs , and one Stomach , the Pylorus of which did strantely branch it self into two ranks in the Bows .
There was but one Liver , but big ; for the rest , there were two Spleens , four Kidneys , two Wombs , full of a white matter , like a concreted semen : two Vulva 's , with their distinct Hymens .
In short , they were so well made in all the other Members , that the Painter , who was employed to draw them , affirmed , That if they were done in Ivory , he would have paid any money for them .
The other Monster was a Boy , terrible to behold , born with his Breast open , the Bowels out of the Belly , the Leggs distorted , the Bladder in the place of the Fundament ; in the Genitals , besides that the Testiculi were close to the Kidneys , there was nothing but a membranous expansion , wherein the Spermatick vessels were lost .
Signor Steno , who honoured me with his visit , saw the administration of it which I had before made in the presence of many Noblemen and Physicians at my house .
VENIC E , Januar .
25 .

