]\gt ; On Electrostatic eening by Grat Washington ( Major F. P. ) Lecture on the Methods and Processes of the Ordnance Survey . .
1890 .
The Author .
Woodward ( A. S. ) and C. D. Sherborn 's Catalogue of British Fossil Vertebrata .
Supplement for 1890 .
[ Extracted from Geol .
] .
Hertford 1891 .
The Authors .
( R. ) Astronomische Mittheilungen .
No. 76 . .
[ Zu rich ] 1890 .
Dr. Wolf .
April 9 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , followed by the Treasurer , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ol.dered for them .
following Papers wel.e read:\mdash ; I. " " On Electrostatic Screening by Gr.atings , Nets .
or Perforated Sheets of Conducting Material By Sir THOMSON , D.C.L. , P.R.S. Received Apri12 , 1891 .
I. Grating .
1 .
Maxwell , in bis ' Theory of a Grating of Parallel Wires\ldquo ; Electricity Nagnetism , Arts .
Plate XITI ) , gives a very valuable and interesting two-dimensional investigation of xostatic screening , and a most instructive diagram of " " of Force near a Grating , ' which powerfully helps to understand extend the theory , and to acquit it of an accusation wrongly made against it in the last two sentences of Art .
205 .
It is only on Upposition of the grate-bars circular cylinders that the mvestigation is less than rigorous : and that supposition nowhel.e enters into the ; it merely appears in the word " " radius the first line of the last sentence but one of Art .
, and it is contradicted in lines 3 and 4 , and by the of the sente1lce , and by the next entence .
( See S 6 below .
) 2 .
The conclusion , \ldquo ; in the last sentence of Art .
20 iutecondemned as " " evidently erroneous is quite correct , and very .
It shows that a corrugated metal plate agreeing .
line of p. .
XLIX .
406 Sir W. Thomson .
On Electrostatic : the eqmipotential surface , exceeds in electrostalic plane metal SUl.face through the poles of the diagram ( Plate reprodnced in S 9 belofv ) , with the s1lrroundings described in Art .
and supplies the datum requisite for finding the exact amount of tk excess .
The for the greatness of the excess clearly is tbab sllrface , which just touches the plane through the poles of diagram midway the poles , is everywhere nearer than plane to the other plate of the condenser .
( See S 7 below .
) ; 3 .
For we have , by ( 11 ) of Art .
205 , , and the sponding equipotential , partially in ] , is a set of curves concave towards , and asymptotic to the denoting integer .
( See SS 10 to 13 below .
) every value of less than , the equipotential is a row of ovals ; and the grating formed by constructing these in metal has lem electrostatic capacity in the circumstances described in Art .
205 than a plarle through the poles or the ovals ( this being no doubt what meant by " " a plane in the same position\ldquo ; as the grating ) .
4 .
For ery value of exceeding the equipotential , instead being the boundary of a grating , is a continuous corrugated surfaoe , and its electrostatic capacity exceeds that of the plane through the poles .
5 .
Begin now afresh , and let it be required to find the electric foroI in the air on either side of an infinite row of parallel bars at equal consecutive distances , , each uniformly with electricity Let be the quantity per unit length on each bar , so that wou16 be the SUl'face density , if the same quantity were uniformly tributed over the pIane of the bars .
aking O in one of the OX perpendicular to the bars , and OZ perpendicular to their plane , we find ( by Fourier 's method ) for the -component of at any point for which is positive , where ( 9 ) Summing this we find . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( $ ) .
This has equal positive and negative values for equal positive negative values of , and it therefore gives the value of the ] not only for positive , but also for negative , values of .
Taking now , with constant assigned to make the integral zero for we 1891 .
] by Gratings , , of Conducting Afaterial .
407 as the potential due to the grating , and two parallel planes at equal distances , , ou its two sides , each uniformly electrified with half the quantity of electricity of opposite sign to that on the 6 .
If now we construct in metal , , any one complete equipotontial surface , , of this syslem , and electrify it with the same quantity of electricity as that which we gave originally to the infinite row of itely thin bars ; and if we place metal planes , , at the two places of zero-potential , we have an insulated conductor at potential , between two planes , , at zero potential , and at distance asunder , on each of which the electric density is brevity , I slIall denote the insulated conductor by I. Its electrostatic capacity per unit area of its medial plane ( the plane of the original infinitely thin bars ) is 7 .
This conductor , I , is symmetrical on each side of its medial plane , and consists either of an number of isolated parallel bars , each surrounding of the original infinitely thin bars , or of a plate symmetrically corrugated on its two sides , with maximum and minimum thicknesses respectively at the places of the infinitely thin bars , and the lines midway between them .
For the case of isolated bars , Jet be the diameter of eacb , in the medial plane .
Then , to find , we must put and , in ( 4 ) .
Thus we find Hence the electrostatic capacity of I in the circumstances is , which is greater or less than , the electrostatic capacity that it would have if reduced to its medial plane , according as The conductor , to be a grating , implies , or , and therefore ires that . . . . . . . . .
( 7 ) . .
When exceeds this critical value , the conductor I is the conplate corrugated on each side , which was described S 7 .
Th oritical value corresponds to an intermediate case of a plate so eeply furrowed on each side as to be just cut through by its two crossing at right angles ; and ( 7 ) shows that the electrostatic 408 Sir W. Thomson .
On Electrostatic Screening capacity of the conductor I so constituted is equal to that of a sheet of thickness 2 a , or insulated midway between the two earth plates , at the distance asunder as they had with I betwsen them .
8 .
By ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , and ( 7 ) , we have for the equation of the constituling bhe two sides of I in this critical case , .
Taking double the positive value of which this gives when we find 2 , or as the maximum thickness of I. This is , or times the amount shown in for the thickness of the plane-sichd plate of equal electrostatic capacity ; which is just such a relation as4 expected before calculation !
9 .
If denote what becomes when in place of we stitute in ( 4 ) , we have , the potential due to a uniform electried force , or , added to the -component , of the force due to tkS gI'ating with its given of quantity per unit length of each bar ; and it is the equipotentials and lines of force of this system that are represented in Maxwell 's diagram of Plate XIII , reproduced here .
In it the resultant force for infinitely large positive values of parallel to OZ , and of constant value ; and it is zero for large negative values of .
The approximation to these alues is close , at only so moderate a distance as on either side of * grating .
10 .
Choosing , in the system of S6 , any one of the \amp ; by Gratings , , of Conducting Material .
quipotentials around the infinitely tbin bars , that indicated by the shading , for example which I have added to Maxwell 's diagram , let be the disbance from the infinitely thin primary bar within it , at which it is cut by the plane of the primary bars .
By putting , in the expression , , and , we find . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 11 ) as the potential at the surface of each of these chosen ovals .
Construct now each of these ovals in metal , and let the supposed uniform force , , be produced by uniform electrification of density - , on a metal plane , , at any great distance , , on the positive side of the grating .
We thus construct a grating of thick bars of oval-shaped cross section which , when electrified with the same quantity of elec- tricity as that which we gave initially to the infinitely thin bars , and subjected to the influence of ths equal quantity of negative electricity on , has for potential through external space from , to infitlite distance on the other side of the ating ( , and has for potential through all the portions of space within the surfaces of the grabe-bars the constant value expressed by ( 11 ) .
In this system the potential , for positive values of great in comparison wibh , is , by ( 4 ) with instead of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 .
The difference of potentials between and the grating is , by ( 6 ) and ( 5 ) , .
Hence the electrostatlc capttcity of mutualIy insulated system , and the grating of oval-shaped bars is equal to the capacity of a pai of parallel planes , and a plane at a distance beyond the plane of the Primitive infinitely thin bars equal to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 14 ) .
11 .
If in 4 we put place of , we have the potential of a ystem in which besides the electricity of the primary bars there is tant electricity such as all in all to give at great enough distances on tho lwo sides of the primitive bars uniform fields of -force tiVely equal to Sir W. omson .
On Electrostatic Screening , for ( 1$ ) .
If , in ( 4 ) with instead of , we put we find , as the equation of the equipotential surfaces , . . . . . . . . . . .
17 By taking , or , we fall back on the cases of SS and SS 9 , 10 , respectively .
12 .
To find an approximate equation for the equipotentials at tances around primitive bars small in comparison with , the from bar to bar , let and be so sman that we may neglect powers of mx , , and , above the square , which implies that iis small of the same order as and ( mz)2 , ( 11 ) becomes enotes m . . . . . . . .
18 .
This shows that , to the degree of approximation in which we negled cubes and higher powers of mx , , the equipotential is a row of elliptic cylinders of eccentricity , with their greater diametral planes perpendicular to the plane of the primitive bars .
When the equipotential is a row of circular cylinders having the bars for their axes ; and this is true to the higher approximation in which we need only neglect powers above the cubes of mx and we see by going back to equation ( 17 ) , with 13 .
The conclusions of S 12 are useful for detailed investigation of the screening effoct of plane gratings of circular or elliptic , straight parallel bars electrified with given quantities of electricity and plaoed with their planes perpendicular to the lines of force in a field of force , and to corresponding problems in which given , as in Maxwell 's SS 203\mdash ; 205 .
14 .
Instead of a single row of parallel equidistant iely bars in one plane , Jet us take for primitives two or more such rov@ , parallel or not parallel , all in one plane or not in on ' , plane .
We nry thus form an endless variety of force-systems available for or helping to solve problems which may occur .
Towards the problems of electric screening find important contributioU by considering in two parallel planes rows of primitive lines one another for one case and perpendicular to one another for case .
The consideration of three rows of primitive lines in one dividing it into equal and similar triangles alternately \amp ; i$F1 .
] by , of Conducting Material .
opposite directions , leads to a complete theory of electrostatic screening by a triangular ]attice of metallic wire or ribbon .
The fundamental potential formula for this systom obtained by sumnlation of expressions , each givsn by an application of ( 4 ) to one of the three rows , is ; whers denote the intervals between the successive lines of the three systems ; , the quantities of electricity per unit length of ba , iu the three systems ; , special coordinates of the point for which ( 19 ) expresses the potential , , its distance from the plane of the primitive bars , and its distances from three planes drawn perpendicular to this plane through a bar of each of the three systems ; the value of for planes on the two sides of the met for which the potential is zero ; and , lastly , . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 20 ) .
For the present , however , we may confine ourselves to case of two rows of primitive lines dividing a plane into squares and charged , both rows , with equal quantities , , of electricity per unit length .
The potential formula , a particular case of ( 19 ) , is ( 21 ) .
15 .
The consideratiou of the equipotentials of this face is very .
The equipotential lines in the plane of the primitive bars given by the equation .
16 .
Considerations quite analogous to those of SS 6 , 7 , 8 , and gain the other considerations ogouS to those of SS 9\mdash ; 13 , are , after the full explanations there given , easily completed so as to formulate a full theory of eIectrostatic capacity and electrostatic toreening for square nets of wire exposed to electric action giving uniform fields of force at distances on eacb or on one side of the phne of the net able in comparison with side of aquare .
17 .
In what follows we shall for brevity call any thin sheet , whether or not plane , which answers to the description contained in the of this paper , a perforated sheet or a perforated surface ; under$4nding that its radu of curvature are everywhere large in com412 Sir W. Thomson .
On Electrostatic creening parison with its thickness .
The diameters of holes must be largo 4 comparison with the thickness in order that the which we use below may be valid .
We shall call the electric of a perforated sheet the total quantity of electricity with which it il electrified , reckoned per unit area of continuous surface agreeing with it , and passing through the middle of cage bars , \amp ; c. This continuous surface I shall call the medial surface , or times , for brevity , medial .
18 .
In what precedes we have virtually a complete investigation of the screening effect of a bomogeneous plane perforated sheet agaimt the electric force of a uniform field with lines of force perpendicuhr to the plaue .
Let it now be required to find the screening effect of a non-plane perforated sheet against a uniform field of electrostatio force , and of , perforated sheet , plane or not plane , against the electrostatic force of any given electrified bodies .
19 .
Let be the potential of given e , lectrified bodies at any point of the space occupied by , and let be the electric density of at , under the influence of those bodies .
To make the problem of finding determinate , might suppose either the total quantity of electricity on , or the potential at which its metal is kept , to be given .
We shall take the latter supposition , and call the given potential C. 20 .
Let denote the potential which lvould be produced by the electricity of if it were spread continuously over the medial with electric density equal to at ; and let .
( 23 ) denote the potential in the metal of , due to the actual distribution of electricity on its surface .
21 .
To understand the meaning of tlJis notation ( ) , consider a large area around , so large that its border is very distant froae in comparison with the thickness of the sheet , and with the diameters of its apertures , but not so ] arge as to deviate sensibly from the tangent plane at .
Let the electricity of all the surface of beyond A be changed from the imagined continuous distribution the actual distribution on the sul.face of the perforated metal .
will make no sensible difference in the potential at Next , let the imagined continuous distribution of uniform eleoffl density , over the continuous area , be changed to the actual tribution of the same quantity over the surface of the perforaud of the porous sheet A. The augmentation of potential at produced by this charge is what we denote by , where is a that iomplexcient depending ohapes aitudes osurface oated m would be zero if there were no pex.forations , and we shall see that by , of Couchncting Jfaterial .
greater it is the less is the screening efficiency .
We shall therefore call the electric permeability , and the electric screening efficiency of the perforated sheet .
sheet is homogeneous as to permeability or soreening efficiency if has the same value for all parts of , but we need not assums this to be the case ; on the oontrary , we shall suppose be any known function of .
In SS 5\mdash ; 16 we have the explanations necessary for determining in the various cases of gratings and nebs there described .
For similarly perforated surfaces , the values of are as the linear dimensions of a perforation or of the bars or bosses of the structures .
22 .
The equation of electric equilibrium is ( a constant ) . . . . . . . .
( 24 ) , when , being insulated and ified , is not under the influence of any other electrified matter .
It is , when is nnder the influence of any given electrified bodies producing a given potential , , at .
23 .
As a first example , going back to ( 24 ) , let be such that shall be constant .
This makes , if we denote by a constant , , ( being a constant ) , which means that the screening efficiency is , in different places of , inversely proportional to the electric density at imilarly situated places of a continuous electrified condtlctor of the same shape as S. Let , for instance , be an ellipsoid ; then , if the sizes of the perforations be inversely proportional to the perpendicular from the centre to the tangent plane , ( 26 ) is satisfied .
Generally , to fulfil this condition , the net must be finer in the more convex and more projecting parts , and coarser in the flatter and less projecting parts .
24 .
If any perforated conductor or cage , , fulfilling the condition of S23 , be electrilied and insulated away from the influence of other conductors , or electrified bodies , the charge distributes itseIf as to have in every part the same quantity per unit area of the medial , as a smooth continuous metallic surface agreeing with the medial and electrified with the same total quantity .
When the medial is a closed surface , electricity on the perforated surface does not confine itself to the parts of it olltside the medial : on the when the apertures are very wide in ison with diameters of cage-bars , bosses , \amp ; c. , the electricity distributes itself almost equally on the parts of the complex surface inside and outside the medial .
26 Seeing that the electric density ( as in S17 ) is the 414 Sir W. Thomson .
On Electrostatic same for a perforated surface the condition of S for the medial constructed in continuous metal , we naturally nk the question , then is the difference between the two if any , besides the fact of the electricity being equally but very unequably distributed over the outer and inner portions of ths complex surface in one case , and equably over the outside of medial in the other P is a very important and intereat .
ing difference .
The electrostatic capacity of the perforated ductor , , is less , in the ratio of 1 to , than that of the mediil constructed in continuous metal ; as we see by ( 23 ) and ( 26 ) .
26 .
As a sub-example , suppose to be a spherical surf .
If homogeneously perforated , it will fulfil the condition of S 23 : and if its screening efficiency is the same as that of a grating of parallel bars ( circular cross section of diameter ; distance from centre to centre ) , we have , by ( 5 ) of S 7 , when is very small , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 27 ) , Now , being spherical , if denotes its radius , we have ( S 20 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 28 ) .
Hence , by ( 26 ) and ( 27 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 29 ) , where denotes the number of bars in the equatorial belt of cage of S 27 below .
27 .
To illustrate a realisation of S 26 , let a spherical cage be up of a narrow equatorial belt of approximately straight bars of diameter 2 , and distance froIIl middle of one bar to middle next , ; completed by polar caps ( nearly hemispheres of thin perforated so as to have everywhere the same effective eening efficiency Suppose , for instance , the bars to be of " " No. 18 ' and cm .
We have Hence , for this case , and any other in which the ratio is the we have , by ( 27 ) and ( 29 ) , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
by ratings , , of Conducting Thus , if cm .
, and cm .
, ; and ( S 25 ) the electrostatic capacity of the spherical cage of that of a simply continuous spherical surface of the same magnitude .
28 .
Let now an electrified metaI globe , or globe of insulabing material uniformly electrified , , be insulated concentrically within 8 .
It may be of any magnitude , large or small , provided only that the interval between the two surfaces be at least two or three times the diameter of the largest of the of S. Let be connected with the earth , and let denote the quantity of ( positive ) electricity with which is electrified , and the quantity of the opposite electricity which it induces on S. The potential in the metal of due to is , by ( 23 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 32 ) .
This , added to , the potential due to , must be zero , and therefore , or , by ( 26 ) , .
Hence , in the particular case of S27 ( 31 ) , ; and when , we find , and conclude that the effect of , earthed , with electrified and insulated within it , is just 4 per cent. of the effect of unscreened .
29 .
If is connected with the earth , and supported at a height above the earth equal to at least six or eight times its diameter , quantity of electricity ( positive in fine weather ) induced on it will be of that which be induced on a simply contin.uotlS metal globe of the same size .
Hence the potential at any of the air within at not less distance inwards than will be of the undisturbed atmospheric potential at the same height above the ground , or 5 per cent. in our particular case .
This is qulte in accordance with the imperfectness of the screening effect atmospheric electricity found by Roiti* within earthed cages , Upported at a COIlsiderable height above the ground , by a racket attached to the top of a wall of a building in Florence , by a water-dropper with its nozzle inside the cage conervazioni Continu , della El ttricitA Atmosferica " " ' Pubblicazioni del B. tituto dtudi Superiori in Firenze Florence , 416 Sir W. Thomson .
On ctrostatic nected by an insulated wire with a quadrant electrometer in the buildings .
30 .
The problem of finding the distribution of electricity ou a spherical cage , of equal electric permeability , , in all parts oi its surface , formulated in ( 25 ) of S22 , is easily solved by aid of spherical harmonics .
Confining ourselves for brevity to the case of external influencing bodies , ] their potential at any point , , within be . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( ) , where denotes a given spherical -harmonic of order , and the distance of from the centre of S. And , denoting an unknown surface-harmonic of order , let be the harmonic expression for , the required electric density .
back to S 20 the definition of , we find , by the elements oi spherical harmonics , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 38 ) : Hence , by ( 25 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 39 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 40 ) , and .
we have tually the same result as in ( 3S ) .
The approximation on which we are founding in SS 17\mdash ; 29 is valid in 40 ) and omly for values of small in comparison : but , as in virtue of greatness of the Iogarithm for the case formulated in may be great in comparison with ; and therefore the denominaW of ( 40 ) need not be only infinitesimally greater than unity , and be amy numeric however great .
31 .
Taking .
, we see by ( 41 ) that if rri insulated unelectrified spherical cage be brought into a uniform of electric force , X ( that of atmospheric electricity , for any height above the ground exceeding five or six diameters of cage ) , the force within the cage is by Gratings , .
of Conducting Material .
\mdash ; , or , according to ( 27 ) , and ( 29 ) , , .
This result is also applicable to a hemispherical screen of radius simply placed on th ground .
For the particular proportions of S27 , it makes the force under hemispherical cage of the unurbed force outside .
A cage of ordinary gardener 's ( anti-rabbit ) hexagonal wire-net ( of cm .
from parallel to parallel ) cannot be very different from this .
If , instead of the radius being 50 cm .
it be 200 , but the cage still of the same net , the force inside would be only 3 per cent. of the undisturbed force outside .
32 .
In every case the force at any distance from the perforated surface , either side of it , more than the diameter of a perforation , is , is easily proved by Fourier 's methods , very nearly the same as if the eIectricity were spread equably over the medial surface , with the same quantity per unib area of the medial as the grating has in each part of it .
Hence , in the case of S 31 , the force is uniform throughout the interior of the cage , except within distances from the net of two or three times the aperture .
Hence a second screen , similar but slightly .smaller , placed inside the first will rednce the : .
418 Sir W. Thomson .
S 30 ( with and instead of spherical harmonics ) .
Bnt it deserve.s mo ce complete synthetic investigation , not limited approximational conditions of SS 21 , 22 , if for no because of Hertz 's mouse-mill .
This must , however , be reserved for future nunication .
Meantime , it is worth saying that sudden variations of electric current , or alternating electric currents , distri .
bute themselves between different straight parallel conductors in same oportion as static electrification is distributed in sponding electrostatic arrangements , whenever the suddenness , or the frequency , is sufficient to cause the impedance by mutual tion of the separate parallel condnctors ( and therefore , a fortiori , the impedance by self-induction of each ] ) to be very large in compaI'ison with ohmic resistance .
Hence Hertz 's mouse-mill screening followS ( though by utterly different physical aclion ) , sjmply the electrostatic law , except in any case in which his wave-length is less than a siderable multiple of the diameter of his mouse-mill . .
" " On Variational Electric and Magnetic Screening By Sir W. THOMSON , P.R. .
Received April 1 , 1891 .
1 .
A screen of imperfectly condncting material is as thorough in its action , when time enough is allowed it , as is a similar screen of metal .
But if it be tried against rapidly varying electrostatic forco , its action Iags .
On account of this lagging , it is easily seen that the screenlng effect periodic variations of electrostatic force will be less and less , the greater the frequency of the variation .
This is readily illustrated by means of various forms of idiostatic electr ' meters .
Thus , for example , a piece of paper supported on metal in metallic communication with the movable disc of an attracted ffiu eIectrometer annuls the attraction ( or renders it quite ) fe seconds of time after a difference of potential is ished abd kept constant between the attracted disc and the opposed metal plsb if the paper and the air are in the ordinary hypw metric condition of our climates .
But if the instrument applied measure a rapidly alternating difference of potential , with differences on the two sides of zero , it gives very little less than same average force as that found when the paper is removed other circumstances kept the same .
Probably , with ordina1y white paper in ordinary hygrometric conditi , a frequency of nation of from 50 to 100 per second will more than suffice to renderffl screening influence of the paper insensible .
And a will suffice if the atmosphere surrounding the paper is dried .
Up to a frequency of millions per second , we may safely that , the greater the frequency , the more perfect is the

