III .
" Observations on the Mer de Glace."-Part I. By JOHN TYNDALL , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 10 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author communicates the first part of a series of observations upon the Mer de Glace , made during a residence of six weeks at the Montanvert last summer * .
He corroborates the laws regarding the swifter flow of the central portions of the icestream , first established by Prof. Forbes , and shows how the velocity changes as the width of the glacier varies .
The Mer de Glace moves through a valley which twice turns a convex curvature to the east , and once to the west .
The points of swiftest motion at these curves are found to be not central , but thrown to that side of the valley towards which the glacier turns its convex curvature .
It has hitherto been believed that the portion of the Mer de Glace derived from the Glacier du Geant moved swiftest .
The author shows that the tributaries which form the Mer de Glace lose their individuality in the trunk stream , the latter flowing as if it proceeded from a single source .
The point of maximum motion is sometimes on the eastern , sometimes on the western side of a line drawn along the centre of the glacier , the change from side to side depending upon the curvature of the valley .
The locus of the point of swiftest motion in a glacier which moves through a sinuous valley , is exactly similar to that of a river moving through a sinuous channel ; it forms a curve more deeply sinuous than the valley itself , and crosses the centre of the valley at each point of contrary flexure .
A rare opportunity of determining the comparative velocities of a glacier at its surface and close to its bed , was furnished by a precipice of ice 140 feet in height , which was exposed near the Tacul .
Three stakes were fixed in this precipice , one at the top , the other near the bottom , and a third in the face of the precipice at a height of nearly 40 feet above the bottom ; the velocities of the three stakes were found to be 6 inches , 4'59 inches , and 2-56 inches per day ; thus furnishing additional proof of the correctness of the law first predicted by Prof. Forbes , and confirmed subsequently by his own observations and those of M. Martins .
Attention is drawn to the immense exertion of force necessary to drive the glacier through the neck of the valley at Trelaporte .
The sum of the width of the three tributaries of the Mer de Glace before they mutually act upon each other is 2597 yards .
All these are squeezed through a gorge at Trelaporte , measuring 893 yards across .
The Glacier de Lechaud , which , before its junction with the Talefre , possesses a width of upwards of 37 chains , is squeezed at Trelaporte to a driblet less than 4 chains wide .
As a natural consequence of this obstacle in front , the Glacier du Geant is generally in a state of longitudinal compression .
But the mechanical meaning of this term must be that the points behind are incessantly advancing upon those in front , the distance between two points upon the axis of the glacier being thus gradually diminished .
The daily motion of these points upon the axis of this glacier was determined , which led to the remarkable result , that a section of the glacier 1000 yards in length is shortened by the thrust to which it is subjected , at the rate of 8 inches a day ; which , if the action were uniform at all seasons , would amount to 240 feet a year .
The author also describes a system of remarkable bands of white ice which he observed to sweep across the Glacier du Geant in the same general direction as the " dirt-bands .
" He traced these bands to the following origin .
The streams which flow upon the glacier in its upper portions , cut deep channels in the ice ; these channels , during the winter , become gorged with snow , which is afterwards compressed to a highly resistant white ice during the descent of the glacier .
Similar bands were also observed in a most remarkable position at the base of the Talefre cascade ; and here also he found the glacier crumpled into a series of protuberances , one consequence of the crumpling being the production of a " backward " as well as a forward " dip " of the veined structure .
A similar system of protuberances occurs on the Glacier du Geant ; and here also the author found the same structure dipping backward as well as forward .
The cause of the crumpling is assigned in the paper .
The physical quality in virtue of which ice is able to change its form in the manner indicated by the observations is next inquired into ; and it is shown by measurements carried out upon the glacier itself , that no quality which could with propriety be called viscosity is possessed by glacier ice .
All the phenomena appear to be reconciled by reference to the fragility of ice at a temperature of 32 ?
F. , coupled with its power of regelation .
The intestine motion of the parts is no doubt aided to some extent by the partial liquefaction of the ice by pressure ; a fact first publicly pointed out by Mr. James Thomson , and proved experimentally by Prof. William Thomson and the author .

