May 27 , 1852 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
The reading of Mr. Huxley 's paper , " Upon , the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca , as illustrated by the Anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda , " was resumed and concluded .
In the present memoir the author endeavours to determine , upon anatpmical and embryological grounds , the true homologies of the different organs of the Cephalous Mollusca , and thence to arrive at some idea of the archetypal form , as definite modifications of which the existing molluscous forms may be considered to have arisen .
The Pelagic Heteropoda and Pteropoda , from their small size and extreme transparancy , are peculiarly favourable subjects for the anatomical part of this investigation , and it is from a detailed examination of those systems of organs which are of importance for the purpose that the author deduces the following conclusions:1 .
In the Heteropoda the intestine is bent towards the dorsal or haemal side in consequence of the development behind the eanus of the visceral " hernia , " which is therefore called a post-abdomen .
2 .
In the Heteropoda , the " foot , " in its most perfect condition , consists of three portions , a propodium , mesopodium and metapodium .
3 .
The Heteropoda are more or less prosobranchiate , the degree depending upon the amount of development of the post-abdomen .
4 .
In the Pteropoda the intestine is bent towards the ventral or neural side , in consequence of the development of the visceral " hernia " in front of the anus .
It is therefore called all abdomen .
5 .
In the Pteropoda , the foot , besides the parts mentioned above , possesses an additional appendage , the epipodium .
which forms the expanded wing characteristic of the group .
6 .
The Pteropoda are opisthobranchiate , prosobranchiate , or intermediate in character , according to the 'degree of development of the abdomen .
The Heteropoda and Pteropoda , then , may be considered to represent two opposite phases of the modification of the molluscous archetype .
In the second part of the paper , the author endeavours , by carefully collating the known facts of the development of the Mollusca , to ascertain ( a ) the primary form of all cephalous Mollusca , and ( , ) the mode in which , in the course of development , this embryonic form becomes metamorphosed into the adult form ; in order , if possible , to account , on the safe basis of ascertained morphological laws , for the peculiar modifications of structure which have been found , anatomically , to obtain among the Heteropoda and Pteropoda .
He finds that:it is possible not only to deduce the structure of the Heteropoda and Pteropoda from a simple and symmetrical archetype by such morphological laws , but that all the cephalous Mollusca fall under one or other of the great types of which these have been .
taken as exemplifications .
After a discussion of the various theories of the homology of the organs of cephalous Mollusca proposed by Loven , Leuckart , &amp;c. , the following general conclusions are set forth:1 .
The cephalous Mollusca are : all organized after the same fundamental form or archetype .
2 .
The arrangement of the systems of organs within this archetype is essentially the same as in the Vertebrata and Annulosa ; that is to say , supposing the digestive system to form the axis of the body ; the nervous centre lies on one side of that axis ; the blood-vascular centre upon the opposite ; and furthermore , the archetype is symmetrical with regard to a longitudinal vertical plane , passing through these three .
3 .
The molluscous archetype differs from the vertebrate in the circumstance-1 , that the mouth opens upon the neural surface ; 2 , that the embryo commences its development upon the hmmal side .
It differs from the articulate archetype in the latter circumstance , and from both in the fact , that the proper appendicular system ( represented by the epipodium ) is almost rudimentary , and that the locomotive function is mainly performed by a development of the neural surface .
4 .
The process of concentration and fusion of parts by which the principal modificationsare produced among the Vertebrata and Articulata , seems almost labsent in the Mollusca ; the changes among them being produced by an asymmetrical development of the primarily symmetrical archetype , aprocess comparatively rare among the Articulata and Vertebrata .
5 .
The part thus asymmetrically developed is invariably a portion of the hamal surface , and may be called an abdomen or a posta bdomen , according as it is placed before or behind the anus .
6 .
The intestine is found to be bent in two directions'among the Mollusca , hiemad or neurad , and these flexures correspond with the development of a post-abdomen or abdomen , respectively .
7 .
The process of development demonstrates that the Tectibran .
chiata , Nudibranchiata and Pectinibranchiata ( in part at least ) belong to the former division , and ; that the Gephalopo'da and Puimonata belong to the latter .
8 .
Anatomical evidence shows that the Heteropoda have a hvemal flexure of the intestine , the Pteropoda a neural flexure ; and it is almost certain that when their development is traced , the former will be found to have a post-abdomen , the latter an abdomen ; there will then be two great divisions of the cephalous mollusca .
a. Those which develope an abdomen-:-Cephalopoda , Pteropoda , Pulmonata .
6b .
Those which develope a post-abdomen:-.Heteropoda , Pectini6 branchicata , Tectibra-nchiata , Nudibranchiata.i9 .
Prosobranchism and OpListhobranchism may occur as secondary results:f either course of development .
10 .
The principal nervous centres.are similar in number and position throughout , and differ only in their arrangement and degrees of concentration .
The amount of the latter does not correspondwith the complexity of organization of the mollusk , but rather the reverse .
11 .
The organization of the vascular system is equally uniform ; its completeness or incompleteness is no mark of complexity or simplicity of the rest of the organization .
12 .
The cephalous Mollusca are characterized by the possession of a peculiar organ , the dentigerous " tongue , " whose mode of action resembles that of a chain-saw .
13 .
The locomotive apparatus , when fully developed , consists of four parts , the propodium , mesopodium , metapodium and epipodium .
These parts are least modified in such mollusks as Atlanta or Pneumodelrion ; most altered and disguised in such as Cleodora or Octopus .
14 .
The term " ' mantle " should be confined to the surface of the abdomen or post-abdomen , and to the prolonged edges of that surface .
15 .
It is of great impoitance to recollect that the " shells " are probably not homologous organs in all the different forms of mollusks .
The shells of Sepia , Spirula ( ?
) , Limax , Clausilia and Helix , are developed in the thickness of the manatle .
The shells of Nautilus ( ?
) , Pectinibranchiata , &amp;c. , are : developed from the surface of the mantle lby a quite distinct process .
Certain curious differences appear to follow the externality or internality of the hell .
An external shell in a mollusk with a : hemal flexure , e. g. Atlanta , has its columellar axis below the aperture .
An external shell in a mollusk with a neural flexure , e. g. Nautilus , has its columellar axis above the aperture An internal shell in a mollusk with a neural flexure , has its columellar axis below the aperture , e. g. Spirula , Clausilia , Helix .
In the course of the memoir tjeauthor incidentally introduces a number of new , and , as he believes , important facts , with regard to the nervous , circulatory and urinary:systems ; and describes at length the mechanism of the_ ' tongue ' " and anorgan similar to the ' crystalline style " of bivalves .
found in the Strombid .

