81 A Confusion-Test for Colour-Blindness . . .
By George J. Burch , M.A. , D.Sc .
Oxon , F.R.S. ( Received December 22 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read March 28 , 1912 .
) The work described in this paper was done in conjunction with Lieut.-Col. W. R. L. Scott , late of the 62nd Foot , who was very nearly , but not quite , red-blind .
He could not under ordinary circumstances distinguish the red coat of a soldier from the black coat of the civilian , though on closer inspection it seemed " not so good a black .
" His colour-sensations are given in my paper on " Artificial Temporary Colour-Blindness."* He continued to take an active interest in the subject , and gave me a good deal of help from time to time in testing the colour-sensations of other people , in which he was very successful , his own colour-blindness enabling him to win their confidence .
It had been intended that his name should appear as joint-author of this paper , but he died on April 9 , 1911 , aged 78 .
In the summer of 1903 we arranged to collaborate in painting a , series of test-cards , accurately adjusted to his colour-sensations , oil-colours being selected , as easier of manipulation than water-colours , and less likely to fade .
I. For the first , I painted the half of an Academy board , 9 inches by 7 , with two coats of vermilion , using very little medium and painting as solidly as possible .
When this was dry , several different kinds of green were mixed , spread on strips of wood , and held near the red background , the most satisfactory being selected by Lieut.-Col. Scott , who indicated which of the colours on the palette might improve it .
This I tried until he expressed himself completely satisfied with the match .
My function was to make the colours as unlike as possible to normal eyes , and his to make them match perfectly to the red-blind .
The other half of the board was then painted with the mixture , which was , about the colour of a year-old ivy leaf , and it was allowed a fortnight in which to .dry and also to see if any change of colour occurred on drying .
I then painted , in his absence , on the green part of the card the words DON'T GO , the letters N'T being in vermilion and the rest in blue .
The blue he could see immediately\#151 ; in fact there seems to have been to him as much difference between green and blue as there is to us between red and green .
But he read the inscription as DO GO , being absolutely unable to distinguish the letters in vermilion .
After a while , by holding the panel sideways , so as to get the light on the brush-marks , he managed to decipher them , but he could see no difference in colour .
In order to prevent the * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 191 , p. 29 .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. G 82 Dr. G. J. Burch .
[ Dec. 22 , brush-marks from being seen , I devised the plan which constitutes the novelty of this test .
The card lies at the bottom of a box like that of an old-fashioned stereoscope , but larger .
In front of the card , at a distance of 6 or 8 inches from it , I fix a sheet of perforated zinc , and the observer looks through a short tube in the top of the box , containing a convex lens of about 8 diopters , focussed on the zinc .
The card is so far beyond the zinc that it is necessarily out of focus , even for those possessing full power of accommodation , all that can be seen through the holes being merely the colours , which form a mosaic of coloured dots , not unlike those of Prof. Stilling 's test , from which , in fact , I got the idea .
But the method has this advantage over Stilling 's cards\#151 ; given the colours , any design can be painted in a few minutes .
It is astonishing how soon the exact description of a test-card becomes known if many people from the same neighbourhood are tested ; hence the importance , even in the absence of any conscious attempt to deceive the examiner , of being able to vary the lettering .
A year later , Lieut.-Col. Scott said that the colours were no longer a match , and he could even read the red letters through the perforated zinc .
On close inspection there appeared to be a sort of whitish bloom on the surface of the vermilion , but so very slight that few people would have noticed it .
He found that fresh vermilion still matched the green , as did the old after the application of oil .
From this it would appear that the green was unchanged .
The whitish bloom would represent to him an addition of blue , to which he was exceedingly sensitive .
II .
For the next card the pigment selected was geranium-red , which differs from vermilion by the addition of blue and violet , these colours being distinct to Lieut.-Col. Scott .
This was found to match with a sort of French grey or slate-colour with no tendency to green .
On the grey half of the card I painted 00 in blue and HOT in geranium .
The first word he could see at a glance , but the second was invisible to him , although to me it was more conspicuous than the other .
III .
For the third card we took emerald green , mixed with a little yellow , to cut off some of the blue rays .
This was found to match with a rather rich yellow ochre , made with Mars yellow , Oxford ochre , and a little burnt sienna .
The letters P.T.O. were painted in the yellow ochre mixture on the green , and B.S.V.P. in emerald green upon the yellow ochre background .
He could not see either , the whole card appearing one uniform green to him .
But he immediately detected the letters O.K. upon the green and A.B.C. and Z upon the yellow ochre in a salmon-pink made by adding a very little geranium-red to the yellow ochre , instead of the burnt sienna .
1911 .
] ^4 Confusion-Test for Colour-Blindness .
83 IV .
For a fourth card we made a full-toned lilac with mauve , magenta and zinc white .
The colour by which this was matched was a fairly pure blue quite free from any tint of purple , but showing in the spectroscope a good deal of green .
On the lilac half I painted P.K.W. in blue , and on the blue half the letters X and I in a slightly paler blue , made by mixing a very little more zinc white with the ground colour .
The difference is so slight that very few people can trace these letters through the perforated zincr although they see the letters P.K.W. immediately .
Lieut.-Col. Scott , on the other hand , could not detect P.K.W. and the whole card appeared of one uniform bright blue tint to him , but he instantly perceived the letters X and I. I have noticed this same sensitiveness to depth of colour in other cases of red-blindness .
Complete or nearly complete red-blindness is immediately detected by these cards .
Partial cases can sometimes read the letters , but do so with difficulty .
Green-blind people easily read the first three , but are stopped by the fourth , being unable to distinguish between lilac and the greenish blue .
The apparatus has been in use in Oxford for colour-testing ever since we made it , and answers admirably .
We found that the X and I on No. IY were easily visible to all the cases of red-blindness , but not to the green-blind nor the normal .
With regard to the permanence of the colours , we found in 1908 , i.e. after five years , some slight changes had taken place in all but No. I , which had not altered after being oiled .
In No. II the geranium had lost something of its blue and violet components , and in No. Ill the yellow mixed with the emerald green had faded , so that Lieut.-Col. Scott , who knew what to look for , could just make out the lettering .
But other colour-blind people were still deceived and No. IY was as effective as ever with both the red- and the green-blind .
All test-cards , especially such as Nagel 's and Stilling 's , are liable to deteriorate , but the use of the perforated zinc enables fresh designs to be prepared with so little trouble that this objection is easily remedied in our test-cards .
It is much to be desired that some one who is green-blind , or has otherwise abnormal colour-sensation , would prepare a set of cards with as much care and accuracy as Lieut.-Col. Scott did these for red-blindness .
Most of the testing was done in the Physiological Laboratory , Oxford , some in University College , Heading , and some were cases from the Oxford Eye Hospital .
The expenses , which were trifling , were defrayed out of the Government Grant Fund .

