240 A Determination of the Electromotive Force of the Weston Normal Cell in Semi-absolute Volts .
By A. Norman Shaw , M.Sc .
, 1851 Exhibitioner and King Research Fellow of McGill University , Montreal .
( Communicated by Prof. H. L. Callendar , F.R.S. Received November 1 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) Accounts of several absolute determinations of current have been published in recent years , but the agreement between the various results has not been quite as close as the accuracy of the work demanded .
This paper presents the result of a determination performed with the aid of a modified form of the bifilar Weber electro-dynamometer .
As this instrument has not been employed in any of the recent determinations , the result has the force of a determination by a new method .
The former obstacles to a precise use of this type of dynamometer have been overcome , and it is claimed that the absolute accuracy of the value of .the electromotive force of the normal Weston standard cell has been considerably increased by this investigation .
The electro-dynamometer was constructed by Nalder , but several fundamental changes have been made in its design .
It was originally set up by Mr. R. O. King under the direction of Prof. H. L. Callendar , and the work by King has been fully described by Callendar , who made important changes in the design of the instrument at that time.* Preliminary observations were obtained by R. O. King for the electromotive force of the old Board of Trade form of crystal Clark cell , and it was intended that more accurate work should be obtained later .
It was suggested by Prof. Barnes that the writer should complete this investigation , and through the generosity of Mr. R. O. King , a Fellowship was provided which enabled him to devote a year almost without interruption to the research .
The paper is divided into the following sections :\#151 ; Preface by Prof. H. L. Callendar , F.R.S. I. Introduction .
II .
The Theory of the Electro-dynamometer .
III .
The Dimensions of the Fixed Coils .
IY .
The Ratio of the Radii of the Fixed and Suspended Coils .
The Dimensions of the Suspended Coils .
Y. The Calculation of the Dynamometer Constants .
* Callendar , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 199 , p. 55 ( 1902 ) .
Electromotive Force of the Weston Normal Cell .
YI .
The Bifilar Suspensions and the Determination of their Directive Force .
VII .
The Deflection Observations .
VIII .
The Resistances .
IX .
The Ratio of the Currents during the Deflection Observations .
X. The Standard Cells .
XL Magnetic and Insulation Tests .
XII .
The Electromotive Force of the International Mean Weston Normal Cell .
Appendix.\#151 ; Note on the Calibration of the Kelvin-Varley Slide for Accurate Electrical Measurements .
In the second section the general theory of the instrument is developed and the formulae which may be applied in its use are given .
It is explained how certain sources of error which appeared in the early use of electrodynamometers have been eliminated .
The third section gives an account of the original determination of the mean radius of the fixed coils and also the method of obtaining the mean distance between the planes of the fixed coils .
The theory and method of measuring the mean radius of the small coils by electromagnetic comparison with the large coils is outlined in the fourth section .
This is one of the most difficult parts of the investigation and nearly 400 observations for various quantities are involved in the final mean .
It is thought that an accuracy of one part in a hundred thousand is obtained .
The calculation of the dynamometer constants is summarised in Section V and the numerical work indicated .
In the next section a description of the bifilar suspensions is given and an account of the determination of their directive force .
The development of a method leading to greatly increased accuracy in the use of bifilar suspensions is presented partly in this and partly in the following section , and it is considered that this part of the investigation has been carried out with an accuracy considerably greater than one part in a hundred thousand .
In Section VII a full account will be found of the deflection observations obtained when making the final measurements .
The mean value involves 290 deflection readings , and the following figures show how closely the mean for certain definite sets of deflections can be repeated .
The figures are obtained with a complete readjustment of the circuit and general conditions in each case .
84-656 cm .
84*657 cm .
84-655 " 84-657 " 84-656 " 84-656 " t 2 Electromotive Force of the Weston Normal Cell .
In this section details are also given of the optical arrangements , the electrical connections and the application of certain important corrections .
The standard resistances are described in Section VIII .
Their value was checked by a comparison with the standards in the Bureau of Standards at Washington .
Section IX deals with the ratio of the currents in the two systems of coils during deflection observations .
This ratio was measured by means of a Kelvin-Varley slide which had been specially calibrated for refined measurements .
Thermal and contact effects were eliminated and the required accuracy was easily assured .
The standard cells are discussed in Section X. Comparisons were made with cells at the Bureau of Standards at Washington in 1908 and 1909 , and with those at the National Physical Laboratory at Tecldington in 1909 and 1912 .
It has therefore been possible to express the mean of our cells in terms of the international mean for the Weston normal cell .
Insulation and magnetic tests are outlined in Section XI , and the final value for the electromotive force of the international mean Weston normal cell is given in Section XII .
This is found to be 1*01831 semi-absolute volts at 20 ' C. Some notes on the calibration and use of the Kelvin-Varley slide for very refined measurements are given in an appendix .

