474 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries the Abdomen " The Development of the Arteries of the Abdomen and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
" By C. B. Lockwood .
Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1884 .
Read December 11 .
Anatomists who have written concerning .the arteries of the abdomen and their relations to the peritoneum display considerable divergence of opinion .
This want of uniformity may perhaps be due to the fact , that owing to the complications of the serous membrane it is hard to trace the course of the vessels without seriously disturbing their relations .
Another and most important reason is , that so far as I am aware , no methodical attempt has been made to elucidate them upon developmental grounds .
The importance of such an endeavour , in this case , is made clear by a moment 's consideration .
If the alimentary tract of one of the lower vertebrates be examined a very simple arrangement may be found ; most probably a straight bowel suspended by a simple mesentery .
Along the spinal attachment of this serous fold a large blood-vessel extends , and branches descend from it to supply the bowel .
When such a scheme as this is compared with that which obtains in the human subject , it is evident that many complicated changes have taken place , and it will be found that the vascular supply of the abdominal organs participates in every change they undergo .
In this paper it is proposed to consider the various events which occur , and their effects upon the course of the arteries .
It seems unnecessary to gtate that so far as alterations in the shape and position of the various portions of the alimentary canal are concerned , there is hardly any difference of opinion ; they are well known and have been frequently described .
The abdominal blood-vessels-and the serous membrane have attracted less attention .
As a preliminary , it may be stated that as the development of the intestines and their appendages , the liver , pancreas , and spleen , has such an important influence upon the arteries , it will be necessary to refer to them at some length .
Owing to the difficulty of obtaining and manipulating human embryos young enough to display the alimentary tract in its earliest stages , I found it convenient to study these by examining embryo rats , mice , chicks , \amp ; c. Evidently the truth of observations made in this way requires constant verification by comparison with what can be made out in the human subject .
When embryo chicks are used changes prior to the third day need not be taken into consideration ; and although the following facts are all well accepted , perhaps I may be permitted to narrate them , inasand their Relation to the Peritoneum .
475 much as they lead up to the points towards which it is desired to draw attention .
A section through the abdomen at about this period ( the third or fourth day ) displays a body-wall enclosing a pleuro-peritoneal cavity ; and in the interior of this an alimentary tube suspended by a mesentery .
A more minute examination of the mesentery shows that it is attached to the spine above : that its surface is covered with flattened cells , and that its interior consists of mesoblastic tissue and blood-vessels .
The latter spring from a large artery , the aorta , which runs along the base of the serous fold .
The vessels of the gut are not merely derived from one or two branches arising from particular parts of the aorta , but are represented by vessels which descend at intervals from the parent trunk .
Later it will be evident that only a few of these mesenteric vessels persist , and that the various parts of the alimentary canal retain a supply commensurate with their requirements .
Moreover , it will be seen that the development of a great organ , such as the liver , pancreas , or spleen , in intimate relation with the bowel , has an important influence in determining the size of the vessels which pass through the mesentery .
Again , referring to the section through the third or fourth day chick , the following points are easily ascertained .
The mesentery and intestine hanging into the pleurq-peritoneal cavity divide it , roughly speaking , into two halves ; a right and left ( Diagram 1 ) .
Of course it follows that the blood-vessels which it contains are bounded on each side by these halves of the peritoneal cavity .
As long as this arrangement continues , nothing could be simpler than the relations of the vessels ; but complications soon occur , and it will now be attempted to state in detail what they are and how they are produced .
For the sake of clearness , the events which take place in that part of the mid-gut which afterwards becomes the stomach may be conDiagkeam 1 .
S. Stomach .
Jbf O.Mesogastrium .
476 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries of the Abdomen sidered first ; although it may be remarked that a great many of the events which are about to be mentioned are in progress at the same time .
The position of the stomach is indicated by an enlargement of the anterior portion of the mid-gut .
This organ , like the remainder of the bowel , is fastened to the spine by a mesentery , and simply hangs suspended in the pleuro-peritoneal cavity ( Diagram 1 ) .
This position is altered by the stomach turning upon its right side .
The mesentery , or mesogastrium as it will be called in future , is implicated in this change ; instead of descending vertically from the spine to the stomach , it becomes looped ( Diagram 2 ) .
Owing to these movements of the stomach , and mesogastrium the cavity which they partitioned becomes different .
There is no longer a right and left division of the peritoneal sac , but a part in front and to the left of the stomach and mesogastrium , and a part behind and to the right .
The space which is behind the stomach , and which has the mesogastrium for its left boundary , represents what afterwards is the lesser cavity of the peritoneum .
It need not be repeated that blood-vessels pass through the mesogastrium to the stomach , and are of necessity involved in the changes which have just been described .
Their course , instead of being straight , forms a curve .
The relations of these altered vessels to the subdivisions of the peritoneal cavity require to be noted ; it is evident that to reach their destination they now pass round the left boundary of the future lesser sac .
Diaghram 2 .
8 .
Stomach .
MG .
Mesogastrium .
All the changes which have been narrated occur at very early etages of development ; subsequent events do not produce any great alterations .
Later it will be seen that the stomach becomes less vertical , and its mesentery further modified ; but the changes which the mesogastrium undergoes are very striking .
They have been fully and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
discussed before , * so that it does not seem necessary to do more than allude to them briefly .
Stated as shortly as possible , it may be said that at the oesophageal and pyloric ends of the stomach the mesogas-trium remains short , but near the middle elongates and becomes the great omentum .
This anomalous structure afterwards enters into relation with the transverse colon ; but at present the manner in which this is brought about need not be discussed .
This much having been premised , it may be inquired whether these observations are applicable to the adult subject .
The mesogastrium having been identified with the great omentum , it remains to be seen if the blood supply of the stomach still passes through it .
The gastric artery certainly conforms to the conditions .
This artery begins behind the peritoneum , and runs between two layers of this membrane to reach the oesophageal end of the stomach .
These folds of peritoneum represent the upper part of the mesogastrium , and are continuous below with the great omentum .
To confirm these statements the lesser sac of the peritoneum should be opened ; a hand passed within it towards the right of the oesophagus enters the concavity of a loop which the gastric artery makes ; a hand introduced , into the greater sac , to the left of the oesophagus , touches the convexity of the loop .
When the anatomy of the gastric artery is compared with the original vessels of the mesentery its close resemblance to them is clear ; the modifications which have occurred are comparatively insignificant .
As it has been explained how the mesogastrium forms the left boundary of the lesser peritoneal cavity , it therefore seems unnecessary to enter into details concerning the relations of the vessels which it contains to the greater and lesser sacs .
If the arteries of the stomach were taken in detail the vasa brevia would come next , and afterwards those near the pylorus .
Passing over the vasa brevia , for the moment , the following question seems to demand an answer .
If the mesogastrium originally contained numerous vessels , how is it that , with the exception of the vasa brevia , none are found between the oesophagus and pylorus ?
Generally speaking , structures receive their blood supply by the nearest route , and exceptions to this rule can usually be accounted for .
The elongation of the mesogastrium , to form the great omentum , is so excessive that it might almost be anticipated that none of its vessels would persist .
Whatever the probabilities may seem , it has always been recognised that the omentum contains enormously long vascular loops , which extend from the curve of the stomach to the transverse colon ; they are usually spoken of as being the longest arterial loops in the body .
Although these vessels appear to be more for the supply of the * " On the Development of the Great Omentum and Transverse Meso-colon , " By C. B. Lockwood , " Proc. Boy .
Soc. , " vol. 35 , p. 279 .
478 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries of the Abdomen omentum than of the stomach , yet it does not seem unreasonable to argue that they represent the original vessels of the mesentery .
If the course of the gastric artery , through the mesogastrium , has been followed , that of the splenic offers fewer difficulties .
Exactly similar principles of development apply to it .
If the mesogastrium of a human embryo about 2 inches long be examined the following facts may be easily observed .
Near the oesophagus the mesogastrium is comparatively short , but at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the stomach it is longer , and the rudiment of a spleen may be distinguished between its layers .
This organ is developed from the mesoblast which exists between the layers of the mesogastrium .
It will be remembered that a portion of this tissue had previously become differentiated into the blood-vessels of the mesogastrium .
Whether the spleen and its blood supply are formed at the same time and from the same tissue , or whether this organ appropriates some of the vessels which the mesogastrium previously contained , would be hard to say .
The fact remains that the mesoblast from ' which this organ is developed is in direct continuity , behind , with that which surrounds the aorta , in front , with that which forms the wall of the stomach ; there is no anatomical reason , therefore , why either of the above events might not occur .
As soon as the spleen appears blood-vessels can be seen extending to it from the aorta , and onwards to the stomach .
Entirely situated between the layers of the mesogastrium the spleen derives the whole of its blood supply from vessels passing through it .
At the period at which the spleen is formed the mesogastrium has become involved in the change of position which the stomach undergoes .
Owing to the turning of this organ upon its right side , the mesogastrium forms a fold the convexity of which is towards the left .
The portion of the general peritoneal cavity included in the concavity of the fold represents the lesser sac .
Now the spleen appears at the convexity of the loop , so that the portion of mesogastrium which extends from the spine to the spleen forms the left boundary of the lesser cavity , and that which passes from the spleen to the stomach constitutes the gastrosplenic omentum ( Diagram 3 ) .
The application of these facts to the course of the splenic artery is not difficult .
As this vessel runs in the mesogastrium it ought to commence behind the lesser peritoneal sac , and pass in its left boundary to reach the spleen .
It is also clear that a portion of the greater cavity , that which lies between the posterior surface of the mesogastrium and back wall of the abdomen , should be behind the artery .
That this is so may easily be ascertained by examining a human foetus at about the full term .
At this period the mesogastrium is well marked , and the splenic artery plainly between its layers .
Even in the adult there is a well marked recess , so that , by placing one hand in the lesser sac and another behind the and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
spleen in the greater , the artery in question may he grasped .
Recent works on anatomy ( e.g. , " Quain 's Anatomy , " Ninth Edition , 1882 , yoI .
ii , p. 729 , fig. 621 , \amp ; c. ) delineate the peritoneum in accordance with the above description .
The process of development which has been described seems to afford an explanation of the very complicated relations of this artery , both to the peritoneum and to its greater and lesser cavities .
Diagram 3 .
S. Stomach .
M ' f.Mesogastrium .
The arteria vasa brevia and gastro-epiploica sinistra are naturally the next to demand attention .
It has been pointed out already that the gastro-splenic omentum is simply that part of the mesogastrium which lies between the spleen and the stomach .
Bloodvessels are present in the mesentery of the stomach long before the appearance of the spleen , but it does not seem possible to say whether the vasa brevia are the representatives of these , or whether , as was remarked before , they might have been developed in connexion with the spleen itself .
Similar doubts appear to exist when the epiploic arteries are in question ; how far they are prolongations of the original arteries of the mesogastrium , or to what extent they are developed in the mesoblast which surrounds the stomach .
A solution of this point would in no way affect what has been said about the course and relations of the splenic artery itself .
This vessel is exceedingly like the gastric , for it has a similar origin and similar course through the mesogastrium .
The arteries in the vicinity of the pylorus are the next to demand notice .
The development of the liver and lesser omentum has a profound influence upon these , and therefore requires ample consideration .
Owing to difficulties which have been mentioned before their development will be studied in the chick .
The very earliest stages of the development of the liver determine its arterial supply .
A trails- 480 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries of the Abdomen verse section through an embryo chick at about the third day of incubation , displays the alimentary canal suspended from the vertebral region by a long mesentery .
The liver commences as a protrusion from the wall of the intestine , and owing to the rapidity of its growth the organ soon attains considerable size .
Numerous bloodvessels are present in the mesentery which unites the liver and intestine to the spine , and the corpuscles which they contain may be seen to enter into intimate relation with the hypoblastic cells which form the liver substance .
This observation is of the greatest importance , for it shows that from its earliest appearance the liver obtains a part of its blood supply from the vessels of the mesentery .
Continuing to watch the changes which occur , it will be found that the growth of the liver is very rapid , and that , after a while , it gradually becomes constricted at its junction with the alimentary canal .
Whilst this constriction is being formed , the convexity of the growing liver unites with the front wall of the abdomen .
The histological changes which accompany these processes are of some importance .
The cells which cover the surface of the liver and adjoining parts assume a flattened appearance , and are undistinguishable from those which line the remainder of the pleuro-peritoneal cavity .
In other words , the surface of the liver becomes covered with peritoneum .
The constriction between the stomach and the liver , at the same time , becomes thinner , and its surface converted into serous membrane .
If , at this stage , a recapitulation be permitted , it is evident that the section shows , from the spine forwards , mesentery , intestine , constriction , liver , and attachment of liver to front wall of abdomen .
Both Gegenbaur ( ''Elements of Comparative Anatomy , " translated by F. J. Bell , p. 565 ) and Balfour ( " Comparative Embryology , " vol. ii , p. 623 ) point out that this is the usual condition in the vertebrates .
The identity of the various parts which have been mentioned has also been recognised by these authors , and seems quite obvious ; the mesentery and intestine require no further remark ; the constriction between the liver and the bowel corresponds to the lesser omentum , and the part uniting the liver to the front wall of the abdomen is the same as the falciform ligament .
A little consideration will show that although the preceding events have been observed in other vertebrates , yet they are applicable to the human subject .
Owing to alterations which take place in the mesentery this is not so easy in the adult , but at about the fifth month of intrauterine life the whole intestine , including the stomach and duodenum , has a well marked mesentery , and it may be seen near the pylorus that the mesoduodenum , duodenum , lesser omentum , liver , and falciform ligament , form an anatomical sequence .
These preliminary facts may now be used in an endeavour to elucidate the course of the hepatic artery .
and their Relation to the .
It has been previously stated that from its earliest appearance the liver derives a portion of its blood supply from the vessels of that part of the alimentary tract from which it grew ; and the mesentery was stated to be the route by which it arrives at its destination .
Kow it is clear that , as development progressed , this supply , besides passing through the mesentery , would have to extend through the constriction which forms between the liver and intestine .
In the human subject the duodeuum represents that part of the alimentary tract which gives origin to the liver ; and , therefore , it seems reasonable to search in its neighbourhood for a vessel which fulfils the conditions which have been laid down .
The hepatic artery leaves nothing to be desired ; arising behind the peritoneum it runs to the duodenum , and distributes branches to the stomach and intestine ; thence it passes onwards through the lesser omentum to the liver , and it is hardly necessary to remark that the lesser omentum corresponds to the constriction which has just been spoken of .
One point with regard to the anatomy of the hepatic artery seems to call for explanation and comment ; its passage through the mesentery .
In the adult the mesoduodenum is often of insignificant size , so that it is not easy to demonstrate the artery passing through it .
At about the middle of intrauterine life the mesoduodenum is long , and no such difficulty exists .
Perhaps this observation is strengthened by an examination of the course of the vessel in the shrew .
In this animal the whole alimentary tract retains the mesentery , and I have satisfied myself that the hepatic artery passes through it before reaching the liver .
If it is true that the hepatic artery is the representative of one of the original vessels of the mesentery , many of its peculiarities may be explained .
Instead of one the liver may have two or even three arteries ( Cruveilhier , " Traite d'Anatomie Descriptive , " vol. iii , p. 67 ) .
When this is the case the additional vessels may arise from the aorta and reach the liver in the usual way , or they may take origin from the gastric or superior mesenteric arteries ; both of which , it is significant to remark , formerly belonged to the mid-gut .
Evidently the organ may appropriate more than one of the original vessels of the mesentery .
That the hepatic artery should distribute branches to the stomach and duodenum need not excite surprise ; before the appearance of the liver it performed no other function than to supply that part of the intestine which afterwards becomes converted into those organs .
So far , in order not to introduce needless complications , no reference has been made to the aperture which is called the Foramen of Winslow .
Th.e development of the hepatic artery is a factor , but not an essential factor , in its formation .
To explain the origin of the Foramen of Winslow , the changes of position which the liver , stomach , and lesser omentum undergo , require to be considered .
In 482 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries of the Abdomen a human embryo , an inch or an inch and a-half long , the stomach is almost vertical .
It has been remarked before that the space behind it corresponds to the lesser cavity of the peritoneum .
The communication between this and the greater sac lies between the right border of the stomach and lesser omentum and the posterior wall of the abdomen .
Now at this early stage of development the liver is of enormous size , and nearly fills the abdominal cavity , descending as low as the pubes .
In consequence its transverse fissure occupies an exceedingly low position .
Afterwards the relative size of the liver diminishes , and it may be said to retreat beneath the ribs and costal cartilages .
It seems reasonable to argue that when the liver makes this ascent it must needs take the lesser omentum , pylorus , and hepatic artery up with it ; and it would further follow that the stomach would become more nearly horizontal , and the hepatic artery acquire , an upward direction .
It is these events which cause the Foramen of Winslow to assume its permanent appearance and position .
Three important arteries , the gastric , splenic , and hepatic , have been passed in review .
From the details of their development principles of wide applicability may be deduced .
First .
That they were originally derived from the dorsal aorta for the supply of the mid-gut .
Second .
That they reach their destination by passing through the mesentery .
Third .
That they participate in all the changes the mesentery undergoes .
Fourth .
That if an organ is developed in the mesentery or from the gut , it obtains , part at least , of its vascular supply from the vessels of the mesentery , or from those of the gut from which it sprung .
The attempt may now be made to apply these principles to the remainder of the human alimentary c\amp ; nal .
Before discussing in detail the arteries of the intestines and their appendage , the pancreas , the development of these organs requires a passing notice .
The formation of the large and small intestines has been fully described elsewhere ( e.g. , Balfour , Gegenbaur , Qua in , \amp ; c. ) .
Recapitulated as briefly as possible , it may be stated that in human embryos an inch long the alimentary canal forms a loop extending from the stomach to the pelvis .
The convexity of this loop is situated in the large aperture which afterwards becomes the umbilicus ; its concavity is fastened to the spine by a considerable mesentery .
A small protrusion appears about the middle of the intestine , and marks the commencement of the csecum and vermiform appendix .
As the calibre of the upper and lower parts of the bowel and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
483 are the same , the outgrowth determines its division into small intestine and colon .
The developmental changes which afterwards occur in the upper part are so slight that they do not seem to demand further comment .
An exception may he made in the case of the duodenum , for owing to the presence of the pancreas , the arteries in its neighbourhood are more complicated .
As far as the duodenum itself is concerned , it has been explained why the hepatic artery should send branches to it ; the rationale of its supply from the superior mesenteric is so obvious that it does not seem to require notice .
It would be hard to explain why parts of the duodenum cease to have a mesentery , but the fact of the disappearance of this serous fold can have no influence upon the sources of its blood supply ; that was determined long before the mesentery became obliterated .
With regard to the arteries of the pancreas , one or two points await solution .
At first it may not be evident why it should be supplied by the vessels of the duodenum and spleen .
It is well recognised that the pancreas commences as a csecal prolongation from the duodenum .
In a human embryo about inches long the elongated mesogastrium , i.e. , great omentum , has not yet involved the transverse colon ; and when this membrane is lifted upwards , it may be seen continuous with the mesoduodenum .
The pancreas , already of considerable size , stretches from the duodenum into the mesoduodenum , and onwards into the mesogastrium , * where it applies itself to the spleen , previously described as being between the layers of this membrane .
The splenic artery may be seen as a delicate streak in the mesogastrium close to the pancreas , and is at this time one of its most available sources of blood supply .
It is evident that the fact of this organ being at one time between the layers of the mesentery explains why it should be supplied by its vessels , such as the splenic and duodenal ; it also explains why , as Haller ( quoted by Cruveilhier , vol. iii , p. 68 ) points out , the pancreas may have a large artery ( pancreatica suprema ) arising from the cseliac axis , superior mesenteric , or aorta .
It will be remembered that the original vessels of the mesentery are numerous , and that even the liver sometimes appropriated more than one ; evidently the same is the case with the pancreas .
In conclusion , as regards the position of the pancreas between the layers of the mesentery , it is permanent in some animals , e.g.y the hedgehog ( see also sp. 780a and 781a , R. C. S. Museum ) .
The ultimate relations of this organ to the serous membrane may be conveniently discussed a little further on .
* July 6th , 1885.\#151 ; This is exactly the anatomical relation which has been described by Professor Anderson as existing in the seal ( " Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , " xix , p. 228 ) .
VOL. XXXVIII . .
2 M 484 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries of the Abdomen The colon , sigmoid flexure , and rectum are the only parts of the alimentary canal which await examination .
When the primitive intestinal loop was mentioned , a part which extended from the pelvis to the csecal protrusion was left .
Keeping in view the fact that the bowel has an abundant mesentery , it remains to be explained how it becomes converted into the ascending , descending , and transverse colons , and how its conversion affects its vascular supply .
The simplest way seems to be to trace the movements of the caecum .
At its first appearance this cul-de-sac is within the wide umbilical aperture , but as the intestine elongates it performs a tour round the abdomen ; from the umbilicus it passes upwards towards the stomach ; from thence it journeys into the right hypochondrium , forming the transverse colon , and descending into the right iliac region completes the ascending portion of the gut .
When the colon was straight and indistinguishable from the rest of the alimentary tract , its vascular supply consisted simply of vessels which descended along the mesentery ; as the bowel travels round the abdomen it carries both mesentery and blood-vessels with it .
The peculiarities which are produced in this manner are so slight that they do not seem to demand further notice .
There is , however , an exception in the case of the middle colic artery , for both the anato my and the development of the mesocolon , in which it lies , are open to discussion .
These questions have already been argued at some length by the author in the paper previously alluded to ( p. 477 ) , so that in the present instance they may be briefly stated .
As a review of the formation of the omentum and transverse mesocolon naturally leads up to the points at issue , it is convenient to begin by discussing it .
Both the structures in question were mentioned when the development of the stomach and colon was being described ( p. 477 ) .
It may Diagram 4 .
S. Stomach fastened to the spine by its mesentery before the latter lias become great omentum .
and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
485 therefore he sufficient to recommence at the point at which their description was discontinued .
Beginning with the mesogastrium , perhaps it is remembered that although at first very simple ( Diagram 4 ) , yet it afterwards grew and descended from the greater curvature of the stomach to form a loop , the great omentum , and that afterwards it ascended to be fastened to the back of the abdomen .
If these ascending layers be traced , the innermost , after reaching the spine , passes upwards to form the back of the lesser sac ; the underlayer accompanies it until the spine is reached , and then turns downwards to become continuous with the upper layer of the Diagram 5 .
S. Stomach .
P. Pancreas , f. Fossa , c. Transverse colon .
transverse mesocolon ( Diagram 5 ) .
Of course it is recognised that at this time the colon has an independent mesentery comparable in every way to that of the small intestine , and it is clear that at this juncture an interval separates the under surface of the omentum from the upper surface of the colon and mesocolon .
Now in order to explain how these acquire the intimate relation which they have in the adult , Haller simply stated that they became adherent .
This view has been adopted by succeeding authors , and if it is true it must follow , as they say it does , that the transverse mesocolon should consist of four layers of peritoneum , three above the middle colic artery and one below .
Although I have examined a great many subjects , the transverse mesocolon has never appeared to consist of more than two layers , one above the artery and one below .
If this is true , Haller 's theory becomes involved in doubt , even if other objections could not be urged against it .
But it ' seems pertinent to ask why this process of adhesion only occurs in this particular place and 2 m 2 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
Arteries of the Abdomen Diagram 6 .
The letters are the same as before .
The fossa between the omentum and transverse mesocolon is shallower .
nowhere else P Or why , before Haller invented his theory , was the mesocolon always thought to have two layers ?
The examination of a large number of embryos shows that adhesion never takes place , but that quite a different event happens .
Suppose the loop of peritoneum between the under surface of the omentum and the upper surface of the transverse mesocolon was drawn out ( see Diagrams 6 , 7 , and 8 , / ) , it would cause the colon to lie between the innermost layer of the omental loop and the inferior layer of the mesocolon ; in other words , Diagram 7 .
Letters as before .
The pancreas is quite behind the peritoneum , the fossa between the mesogastrium and mesocolon having nearly disappeared .
and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
the transverse mesocolon would consist of only two layers , which would embrace the gut and its artery .
The paper which has been mentioned was written , and specimens were shown , to demonstrate that this was what took place .
If this evidence is true , the usual accounts of the relations of the transverse mesocolon and its contents require to be modified .
It may be remembered that a little while ago it was said that it would be convenient to defer the final stages of the development of the pancreas .
When this organ was last spoken of it lay between the folds of the mesogastrium just before this membrane was attached to the spine ( Diagram 5 ) .
In consequence , the fossa between the mesoDiagram 8 .
The letters as before .
To show the last stage in the disappearance of the fossa between the omentum and transverse mesocolon .
gastrium and the mesentery of the transverse colon intervened between it and the spine .
It is clear that if the highest part of the peritoneal loop which forms this fossa was withdrawn , the pancreas would naturally apply itself to the spine ( Diagrams 6 and 7 ) .
That this is what occurs need not be repeated , and as the under surface of the mesogastrium is continuous with the left surface of the mesoduodenum , the drawing out of the one causes the disappearance of the other .
All the arteries of the alimentary canal from the stomach to the rectum have now been discussed , and I have maintained that\#151 ; First .
All of them , even the splenic and hepatic , were originally derived from the dorsal aorta for the supply of the mid-gut .
Second .
That they reach their destinations by passing through the mesentery .
Mr. JEL Tomlinson .
Influence of Third .
That they participate in all the changes the mesentery nndergoes .
Fourth .
That if an organ is developed in the mesentery or from the gut , it obtains , part at least , of its vascular supply from the vessels of the mesentery , or from those of that part of the gut from which it sprung .
These principles have , in this paper , only been applied to the development of the blood-vessels of the human alimentary canal , but they seem so simple , and the probability of their truth appears so great , that it may be anticipated that they will be found of very much wider application .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter.* Part I. Moduli of Elasticity\#151 ; continued .
Relations between Moduli of Elasticity , Thermal Capacity , and other Physical Constants .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 28 , 1884 .
Read June 19 .
It has been proved by Wertheim , + whose results have been verified by myself , J that if e be taken to denote " Young 's Modulus , " and a. the mean distance between the centres of any two adjacent molecules of a solid body , ex*7 is , in the case of most metals , approximately a constant .
Poisson , regarding a body as an assemblage of molecules very small as compared with the distance between them , bound to one another by an attractive force , and kept at a distance by the repulsion due to heat , was led to the formula\#151 ; N _2^=OCr5 d\fr h 3^ \#171 ; 5 T\#151 ; CL In this formula N is a constant force perpendicular to the surface of the body , B the corresponding linear expansion or contraction produced , r the radius of activity of a molecule , a the mean distance between two adjacent molecules , and fr the function by which the law of the resultant molecular force is expressed .
It follows , therefore , that if e X oflis a constant , fr must decrease in the inverse * The original title Of the paper has been altered to the above as being more exact in expression .
+ 41 Ann. de Chimie , " 1884 , tom .
xii .
t " Phil. Trans. , " Part T , 1883 , p. 32 .

