]\gt ; .
W. E. Wilson .
a well-known product of decomposition of chlorophyll .
Another is a substance of well-marked properties , nearly resembling , but not identi- cal with , phyllocyanin .
It has not , so far as my experience goes , been hitherto observed as a result of any process of decomposition to which chlorophyll has been subiected outside the animal body .
I consider it as a body generis , characterised by its fine purplish-blue colour and its brilliant metallic lustre .
The existence of other products in addi tion to these two is possible .
On one occasion , indeed , a definite crystalline substance was obtained , which seemed to be peculiar , but that it was any way connected with chlorophyll could not with certainty be maintained .
" " The Effective Temperature of the Sun By W. E. WILSON , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received December 5 , \mdash ; Read December 12 , 1901 .
In March , 1894 , Dr. G. Johnstone Stony communicated to the Society a memoir by myself and Mr. P. L. Gray , entitled ' ' Experimental Investigations on the Effective Temperature of the hich was published in the 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 185 ( 1894 ) .
In these lnvestigations the method we adopted was as follows : beam of sunlight was sent horizontally into the by means of a Stony single.mirror heliostat .
The mirror an optical plana of unsilvered glass , and the beam was directed into one aperture ( A ) of a differential Boys ' radio-micrometer .
The other aperture received the radiation from a strip of platirlum , which could be aised to any desired temperature by an electric current supplied by a battery of accumulators .
The temperature of this strip at any moment determined by its linear expansion , the instrnment being previously calibrated by melting on it minute fragments of and of pure gold , as in Joly 's meldometer .
front of the aperture of the radio-micrometer was placed a stop with a circular hole of mm. , and the distance of this hole from the receiving surface of the thermo-couple was mm. This gave for the angle subtended by a diamster of the aperture at the reeeiving surface .
Knowing then ( i ) the ratio which the angular diameter of this circtllar aperture bears to that of the sun , ( ii ) the temperature of the platinum at the moment that the -micrometer is balanced , ( iii ) the amount of the 's radiation Iost by reflection from the heliostat mirror and also by absorption in the earth 's atmosphere , it is possible on any assumption with regard to the law connecting radiation temperature , to determine the effective temperature of the sun .
A series of very accordant observations were made in this , the mean of which gave 6200o C. as the effective solar temperature .
Effecfive Temper For the details of the apparatus are of the observations , the original ] referred to .
* '$ In order to protect the incandescent strip from draughts of ai .
it was coyered with a water-iacket of gilded brass .
This was provided with a cular hole in one of its longer sides , through which its radiation could reach the aperture of the radio-micrometer .
The internal walls of this water-iacket being highly polished , it has to me , since the publication of the memoir referred to , that possibly some of the radiation from distant parts of the platinum str may have been reflected backwards and forwards the polished walls and the strip itself , ultimately escaping through the and reaching th radio-micrometer , thus increasing the amount of radiation which should have reached it directly from the strip In order to test this surmise I first took a number of readings at known temperatures with the walls of the water-iacket polished as Dr. W. E. Wilson .
before .
I next smoked the surface of the walls well , and found the amount of radiation coming from the aperture was then sensibl reduced .
It is also possible that changes in the condition of urface of the platinum strip may elfect its emissivity , and in fact very doubtful whether it is possible to determine with any degree accuracy what the emissivity of bright platinum is , relatively to lamI black .
In the original memoir we took Bosetti 's estimate of 35 per cent. as the most probable value for this quantity , but as our former estimare of the solar temperature depends greatly on this factor , to which so much uncertainty attaches , I thought it would be a distinct jtdvance to abolish entirely the platinum strip as a source of radiation , to substitute in its place a uniformly heated enclosure which old radiate as an absolutely\ldquo ; black body In Mr. Lanchester pointed out to me that snch an enclosure wouId be a theoretically perfect radiator while Lummer , schen others have that the law connecting temperature and * this aperture from the surface of the thermo couple was mm. .
To make an observation the tube was heated to as high a temperaturs the hot tube and passing into the aperture ( B ) of the radio-microLeter was adiusted by the micrometer screw until a balance was tained with the radiation coming from the Sun through the gerture ( A ) .
If is the angular semi-diameter of the sun , its radiation outside of our atmosphere is here K is a constant depending on the 's temperature .
Again , if be the height of the slit through which the radiation from the hot tube reaches the radio-micrometer , and its width , the radiation may with sufficisnt accuracy bs expressed by Assuming Stefan 's law , the radiation of the sun outside our atmofphere is being the effective temperature of the sun .
, 'Sitzber . .
Akad .
zu Wien , ' vol. 79 , lS79 ( Abth .
2 ) , p. 391 ; Boltzmam ] , 'Wied .
Ann vol. 22 , 1884 ; M. Planck , 'Drude Ann vol. 1 , No. 1 , .
1900 ; Pasche ] ] , ' Wied .
Ann vols .
58 , 60 , 1897 ; Lummer and Pringsheim Wied .
Ann vol. 63 , 395 , 1897 .
VOL. LXIX .
316 Dr. W. .
Wilson .
The transmitted is , therefo reflection from the heliostat is At ction ftSllitted , therefore the dintion r ccived by the is . .
( 1 Also the radi iLtion 1cceived from the hot bube is The Bffective of the Sun .
317 thermo-iunctions disappearing in the geometrical mean .
Observations were made in the manner described above on August 19th and September 30th , 1901 , andreduced by means of equation ( , as exhibited in following tables .
In these the successive columns contain ( 1 ) the local mean time , ( 2 ) value of as read on the micrometer head , ( 3 ) the absolute temperature of the tube in the furnace , ( 4 ) the sun 's altitude , ( 5 ) the percentage of the 's radiation transmitted through the earth 's atmosphere , ( 6 ) the angle of incidence on the mirror , ( 7 ) the percentage reflected from the Surface of the mirror , ( 8 ) the corl.esponding value of deduced from 6quation(4 ) .
Of these ( o ) and ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) were determined as in Wilson and Gray 's memoir referred to above .
Dr. W. E. Wilson .
Th L'ffective of the Sun .
: : : : : Messrs. C. T. Heycock and F. H. Neville .
In the above tables Rosetti 's determination of the amount of the terrestrial atmospheric absorption has been used .
It may be however , to give the resuIts obtained by using other estimates of quantity .
Taking Langley 's transmission coefficient when the sun in the zenith as 59 per cent. , compared to Rosetti 's 71 per cent. , the temperature would be multiplied ) ( 71/ 59 ) and thus become 5773 , which is 608 absolute .
And , as in the previous memoir , to make the case general , if any later investigation shows the zenith transmission coefficient be per cent. , the effective absolute temperature becomes .
It also be of interest to see what effect is produced if absorption in the atmosphere of the sun itself is taken into account .
First , considering the falling off in radiation from ths central to the peripheral parts of the sun 's disc , we may deduce that , if the absorpoion were everywhere equal to that at the centre , the radiation would multiplied by 4/ 3 and the temperature wouId become Secondly , assuming Vilson and result for the total loss due to absorption in the atmosphers as equal to one-third , our estilnate of the temperature would have to be multiplied by , and we get finally absolute C. I wish to express my thanks to Dr. mbaut for some valuable suggestions during the gress of the vork .
" " On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys By C. T. HEYCOCK , .
H. NEYILLE , eceived December 9 , \mdash ; 1901 .
In , 1901 , rend paper on the results of chilling copper-tin nlloys , and the sgow meeting of the British Association , ) all ccount of some of the conclusions that we rrived { concerniug the of the alloys rich in copper .
The prcsent extends OIlclusions to all loys of copper and tin , the uying d presents result in a concise completc form .
Absorption Heat in the Solar Atmosphere 'Proceedings Royal ldemy , 1892 , , No. 2 .
, p. 171 .
'Reporl on Alloys , ' Sec. B.

