" Report made to the President and Council of the Royal Society , of Experiments on the Friction of Discs revolving in Water .
" By JAMES THOMSON , Esq. , C.E. , Belfast .
[ A Committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science , consisting of James Thomson , Esq. , C.E. , and William Fairbairn , Esq. , C.E. , F.R.S. , having been appointed " to make Experiments on the Friction of Discs revolving in water , with especial reference to supplying data wanted in calculations relative to 2z the action and efficiency of Turbine Water-Wheels in general , and of Centrifugal Pumps ; and also to make an experimental investigation relative to the action and efficiency of Centrifugal Pumps in general , and the amount of improvement derivable in them by the employment of an exterior whirlpool ; " a sum of ?
50 from the Government Grant of 1853 was allotted by the Council of the Royal Society in aid of the inquiry .
The experiments , as originally contemplated , have been arranged and conducted by Mr. Thomson , and the present Report of his progress is here inserted by order of the President and Council for the information of the Fellows .
] In last year 's Report of the Committee it was stated , that an apparatus for making experiments on the friction of discs revolving in water had been constructed , and that experiments had been commenced with it .
I have now further to state respecting the experiments for which that apparatus was adapted , that I have since got them completed and carefully arranged for the purpose of obtaining from them laws applicable for practical use .
I now beg to lay before the Royal Society , as a brief statement of the most essential results , the following general equation to show the relation between the velocity of revolution of the disc , the diameter of the disc , and the mechanical work consumed in friction:y3d5 90,000 in which d=diameter of the disc in feet , y=number of revolutions of the disc per minute , and z=number of foot-pounds of mechanical work consumed per minute .
This equation is based on experiments which range for the most part between the limits yd=192 and yd=518 , and may be used with confidence , as sufficiently correct for most practical purposes , if the product of the number of revolutions per minute and the diameter of the disc in feet be between those limits .
It is to be observed that the friction is slightly affected by the width of the water space within the case , and the coefficient 90,000 stated in the formula above is , for simplicity in the present brief report , taken between the coefficients obtained by two sets of experiments with different widths .
A full report on the experiments already made , explaining the manner of conducting them and stating the detailed results , would be rather lengthened , and would require drawings and diagrams , for all of which I have carefully preserved the requi .
site data ; but before proceeding to put these in form suitable to be submitted to the Royal Society , I am desirous of prosecuting the remainder of the very interesting and important experiments which have been entrusted to me , -that portion of the whole , namely , which relates especially to centrifugal pumps .
I have also to state , that if my engagements permit , I should be desirous of proceeding with a renewed and more extended set of experiments on the friction of discs , with an apparatus depending on the same leading principle as that which I have already used , --a principle which on trial has been found remarkably well suited for the desired purpose .
For the attainment of greater accuracy and of a wider range of the experiments , it seems to me that no better method of procedure could be adopted , than to follow the same leading principles , with an apparatus of rather more refined construction , involving such improvements in details as have been suggested by the experience gained in the course of the experiments already made , and for the sake of greater steadiness of motion , worked by steam power instead of the hand of an operator .
Should I have it in my power to conduct this renewed set of experiments , a detailed account of them will be preferable to a detailed account of those already made .
In respect to the experiments on Centrifugal Pumps , I have to say that I have prepared plans for an experimental apparatus on principles which I consider are peculiarly well suited for the attainment of useful and accurate results , and that I intend to proceed with the experiments as soon as my engagements shall permit .
I have further to state , that from the Experimental Fund of ?
50 granted by the Royal Society , the entire outlay as yet incurred has been ?
6 5s .
9d , leaving a balance of ?
43 14s .
3d .
for the more extended experiments yet remaining to be made .
JAMES THOMSON .
Belfast , April 13 , 1855 .

