On the Mammary Glands of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
By Mr. RICHARD OWEN .
Communicated by J. H. GREEN , Esq. F.R.S Read June 21 , 1832 .
THE extraordinary nature of the monotrematous quadrupeds of Australia cannot be illustrated more forcibly than by observing that it is still doubtful to what class of animals they properly belong .
In the confines of the animal kingdom , it is less surprising that a species should occasionally be discovered , either so devoid of external character , or of a form so strange , as to occasion a difficulty in ascertaining its class ; and an Entozoon , a Lernaea , or an aggregate species of Salpa may require very minute investigation in order to determine its relation even to the most comprehensive division of a methodical arrangement .
But the same difficulty occurring with respect to a hairy quadruped , affords one of the most unexpected , as well as interesting problems in natural history , and renders acceptable the smallest addition to the series of facts already ascertained respecting so anomalous a creature .
In this country we can hardly hope to throw light upon the economy of Ornithorhynchus and Echidna , except by the way of anatomy ; at least , the aquatic habits of the former species render it improbable that it will ever be brought alive to our menageries .
But the same objection does not apply to the spiny ant-eater , and it is to this animal therefore that the attention of voyagers from New South Wales should be more especially directed with a view of importation .
It is well known that one of the points now at issue with respect to these animals , is the nature of certain glandular organs which they possess , which are supposed to appertain to the mammary systein : and it is obvious that our knowledge of the true affinities of the Monotremata greatly depends on a complete elucidation of this subject .
To it , therefore , my attention has been particularly directed whenever an opportunity has occurred of examining the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus ; and I have invariably noted the condition of the uterine organs with reference to that of the glands in question .
In this way a series of facts has been ascertained , which I have ventured , from the interest of the subject to which they relate , to submit to this learned Society .
But as the value of these observations , in a great measure , arises out of the state of doubt in which the qulestion was left by previous researches , I have premised a short abstract of the anatomical history of the Monotremata .
Echidna Ilystrix and Ornithorhynchus paradozus were first described and figured by Dr. SHAW ; the former , as early as the year 1792 , in the third volume of the " Naturalist 's Miscellany , " under the denomination of,7yrmecophaga aculeata ; the latter , in the tenth volume of the same worlk , in 1799 , by the name of Platypus anatinus .
In the following year this extraordinary animal received a further description , together with its present generally adopted appellation , from Professor BLUMENBACH ; and about the same time , Sir EVERARD ( then Mr. ) HOME gave aa account of some of its anatomical peculiarities , which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1800 .
As these observations however were limited to the head and beak of the Ornithorhynchus , they threw but little additional liglt on the situation of that animal in the natural series .
In the meanwhile , Professor BLUMENBACH placed the Ornithorhynchus among the Palmata of his system of natural history , intermediate to the otter and the walruss ; while Dr. SHAW more correctly referred it to the Bruta of LINNAUS ; and , although limited to such traces of affinity as the outward form alone presented , he announced the alliance of this species , as well as of the Echidna , to the Myrmecophagae .
The important memoirs on the anatomnical structure of both these animals by Sir EVERARD HOME , whiCh were read before the Royal Society , and published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1802 , drew the attention of the scientific world more strongly towards their remarkable peculiarities and deviations from the normal type of the Mammalia .
In these investigations , the author , having brought to light numerous instances of mutual affinities before concealed beneath very dissimilar exteriors , grouped the two animals together under the same generic appellation .
He also announced his opinion that they differed considerably in their mode of generation from the true Mammalia , grounding his belief on the peculiarities of the organs themselves , and on the absence of nipples in both species , and especially in the female of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
518 The opinion of Sir EVERARD I-IOME was soon after adopted by Professor GEOFFROY ST .
HILAIRE , who , in the Bulletin de la Soci6te Philomathique , tom .
iii .
p. 225 , constituted a new order for these animals under the term 'Monotremes , being induced to believe , from an imperfect dissection , that the genital products of both sexes , as well as the urine and excrement , were voided by a common outlet* .
Concluding also by inference that the mammary glands as well as nipples were wanting , and strengthened in his belief of the oviparous nature of the Monotremata , by some accounts from New South Wales of the discovery of the eggs of the Ornithorhynchust , he subsequen-tly separated the monotrematous animals altogether from the Mammalia , and characterized thiem as a class intermediate to Quadrupeds and Birds .
( Bulletin de la Societ6 Philomathique , tom .
viii .
p. 95.-Annales des Sciences Not .
xviii .
p. 164 .
) The same idea had previously been entertained by LAMARCK , ( Philosophie Anatomique , 8vo , tom .
i. pp. 145 , 342 ) ; and by VAN DER HOEVEN , ( Nova Acta Physico-medica Acad. Not .
Cur .
torn .
xi .
Part .
II .
p. 368 ) .
But with these naturalists also the proposed dismemberment was founded principally on the presumed absence of mammary organs , unsupported by any additional facts relative to the i:nternal anatomy of the species in question .
This mode of viewing the Monotremata was not , therefore , generally assented to .
Possessing so many peculiarities of structure , these animals could not fail of attracting due attention from the immortal CUVIER .
With his usual sagacity , he had very early perceived the true nature of the relation in which the Myrmecophaga aculeata of SHAW stood to the genus it was then placed in , and accordingly in the " Tableau Elementaire de l'Histoire Naturelle , " ( 1797 , ) he separated it from the true ant-eaters , under the denomination of Echidna .
He subsequently made considerable additions to the anatomical history of this species as well as to that of the Ornithorhynchus , acknowledged their mutual relations , and adopted the collective term pro* See on the contrary the description of the male organs of the Ornithorhynchus , by Dr. KNox , in the fifth volume of the Wernerian Transactions , p. 152 , where Sir EVERARD HOME'S account of the passage of the seminal fluid by a distinct channel through the penis is confirmed .
t See Mr. HILL'S Letter in the thirteenth volume of the Linnean Transactions , inserted in the MWm .
du Museum , tom .
xv .
p. 622 : and that of Professor GRANT in the eighteenth volume of the Annals des Sciences Naturelles , p. 161 .
3x2 519 posed by Professor GEOFFROY , but admitted it in the RWgne Animal , as indicative of a tribe or family only , in his order Edentata .
OKEN and DE BLAINVILLE more decidedly opposed the opinion of GEOFFROY .
The former naturalist even went so far as to hazard a conjecture respecting the mammary glands , and suspects that they will be found in the Cloaca , ( Zoologie , tom .
ii .
p. 957 ) ; and M. DE BLAINVILLE , in a dissertation on the place which the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna ought to hold in the natural series , after adducing the numerous instances in which the structure of the Monotremata agrees with that of the Mammalia , also expresses his belief that the mammary organs will ultimately be detected , and is of opinion that the animals themselves are most closely allied to the Marsupial order .
Lastly , Professor MECKEL , of Halle , announced in FRORIEP 's Notizen , ( Band vi .
p. 144 .
1824 .
) and subsequently in his excellent monograph on Ornithorhynchits paradoxus , ( folio , Lipsiae , 1826 , ) the existence of mammary glands largely developed in the female of that species * .
In the latter work he accurately describes their situation , magnitude , form , and lobular composition .
The tissue of the lobules he regards as consisting of closely aggregated tubes .
Being unable to inject the gland , he is uncertain as to the precise mode in which the ducts terminate ; but describes some small eminences , situated in the middle of the areola , as being undoubtedly orifices of the ducts .
From this most important example of the affinity of the Ornithorhynchus to the ordinary Mammrialia , Professor MECKEL is , however , far from drawing conclusions as to the identity of their mode of generation .
For observing , " that the difference between the bringing forth of living young and of eggs is really very small , and by no means of an essential nature , --that birds have accidentally hatched the egg within the abdomen , and so produced a living foetus , -an occurrence which has also been induced by direct experiment - , -_ and that , lastly , the generation of the marsupial animals is very similar to the oviparous mode , " he deems it " very probable that , as the Ornithorhvnchus approaches still nearer than the Marsupiata to Birds and Reptiles , its mode of generation may be in a proportionate degree analogous* .
" For an animal possessing mammary glands he claims , however , the right to rank with the Mammalia ; and accords with Professor GEOFFROY only so far as to consider the Monotremata a distinct order of quadrupeds , which he places , as in the system of CUVIER , next to the Edentata .
Notwithstanding the authentic and circumstantial manner in which this discovery was given to the world , it has been by no means universally regarded as conclusive with respect to the mammiferous nature of the Morotremata .
Professor GEOFFROY , having subsequently had an opportunity of dissecting a female Ornithorhynchus , and of verifying in some measure the description above quoted , has more especially endeavoured to invalidate the inferences drawn from it .
He urges ' , that the subcutaneous abdominal glands considered by MECKEL as mammary , possess none of the characters of a true mammary gland ; -that he examined them with the greatest attention , comparing them with the human mammary glands , and especially with those of marsupial animals , and that they were of a totally different texture ( tissu ) , consisting of a vast number of cacums placed side by side , all directed to the same point of the skin , where only two excretory orifices were to be perceived , and these orifices so small , that the head of the smallest pin could not be made to enter them ; -that , above all , there was no trace of nipples ; that in the specimen he examined , which had the size and appeairance of an adult female Ornithorhynchus , the apparatus in question was not more than a fourth part of the size of that observed by MECKEL .
But a mammary gland , he further observes , when arrived at its full development , occasions an enlargement of all its constituent parts , the nipple acquiring additional bulk even before lactation commences , while nothing of the kind has been noticed in the Ornithorhynchus .
He considers them , therefore , as being analogous rather to those glands for the secretion of a lubricating fluid , that are disposed along the flanks of the aquatic reptiles and fishes ; or to the odoriferous follicles of quadrupeds , and especially to those which are found on the sides )f the abdomen in shrews .
To these objections Professor MECKEL has re* Ornithorhynchi paradoxi Anatome , fol. p. 58 .
t Annals des Sciences Naturelles , tom .
ix .
p. 457 .
521 plied in his Archi v flur Anatomy und Physiologie , B. x. p. 23 ; where , after combating the argumenets drawn by Professor GEOFFROY from the supposed follicular structure of the glands and the absence of a nipple , he particularly urges the great difference of size which the glands presented in the two females examined , and also their total absence in the male , -both which circumstances he considers as strongly corroborative of his original opinion .
In the same work ( B. x. p. 568 , ) Professor V. BAER , in support of the opinion of MECKEL , adduces the example of a mammary gland analogous in simplicity of structure to that of the Ornithorhynchus , viz. in the Cetacea , where its function has never been questioned .
But as no additional particulars relative to the structure of the glands in the Ornithorhynchus have arisen out of this discussion , I shall not dwell further on the arguments used by these celebrated anatomists , but proceed to give the results of my own investigations relative to this subject .
In five apparently adult and full-grown Ornithorhynchi examined by me , the mammary glands presented as many different degrees of development .
In one of the specimelns they were even larger than in that dissected by MECKEL , measuring in length respectively five inches and a half , in breadth two inches , and in thickness from four to five lines .
In another specimen they did not exceed one inch and a half in length , and were only five lines in breadth , and half a line in thickness .
In the remainder the mammary glands were of intermediate sizes to the two above mentioned .
In each specimen the gland was composed of from one hundred and fifty to two hundred elongated subeylindrical lobes , disposed in an oblong flattened mass , and converging to a small oval areola in the abdominal integument , which areola is situated between three and four inches anterior to the cloaca , and about one inch from the inesial line .
The lobes in the smaller glands preserve the same breadth to near their points of insertion , but in the larger ones they are broadest at the free extremity , measuring three or four lines across , and become narrower to about one third from the point of insertion , where they end in slender ducts .
The lobes are almost all situated to the outer side of the areola , and consequently converge towards the mesial line of the body .
Between the glands and the integument the panniculus carnosus is interposed , closely adhlering to the latter , but connected withi the glands by loose 522 cellular membrane .
This muscle is here nearly a line in thickness ; its fibres are longitudinal , and , separating , leave an elliptical space for the passage of the ducts of the gland to the areola .
( PI .
XVIII .
fig. 1 .
) On the external surface of the skin the areola ( when the hair with which it is covered has been removed , ) can only be distinguished by the larger size of the orifices of the ducts as comparled with those for the transmission of the hairs , and occasionally byeing of a deeper colour than the surrounding integument .
The oiifices of the ducts thus grouped together form an oval spot , which in the specimen which had the largest glands measured five lines in the long , and three in the short diameter .
In that in which the glands exhibited the smallest size , the areola could be traced by the aid of a lens to nearly the same extent in the long diameter , but it was much narrower .
From the minuteness of the orifices of the ducts in the specimens with the small glands , the situation of the areola can hardly be detected without previously dissecting the gland ; whilst in those in which the glands are fully developed , the practised eye readily discovers the areola on removing the hair .
In none of the specimens was the surface on which the ducts terminated in the slightest degree raised beyond the level of the surrounding integument ; the elevation like a millet-seed in Professor MECKEL'S specimen I conceive to have been accidental , and not essential to the structure of the part , having observed similar risings in the integument at different distances from the areola , but not in the areola itself .
The orifices , moreover , appear of nearly equal sizes , not any of them at least being calculated to suggest the idea of its being common to many ducts or lobules , as might be inferred from the description of Professor GEOFFROY .
( The appearance which one of the areolae presented under the microscope is represented at PI .
XVIII .
fig. 2 .
) On compressing the glands in a specimen in the Museum of the Zoological Society , where they had arrived at the maximum of development , there escaped from these orifices minute drops of a yellowish oil , which afforded neither perceptible taste nor smell , except such as was derived from the preserving liquor .
Having in vain attempted to insert the smallest absorbent pipe into these orifices , I thrust it into the extremity of a lobule , and after a few unsuccessful efforts at length perceived the mercury graduially diffusing itself in minute globules through the parenchyma of the lobule ; and at the distance of an 523 inch from the place of insertion it had evidently entered a central duct , down which it freely ran to the areola , where it escaped externally from one of the minute orifices just described .
This process was repeated on most of the lobes with similar results ; the greater part of them terminated by a single duct opening exteriorly , distinct from the rest ; but in a few instances the ducts of two contiguous lobules united into one , and in these cases the mercury returned by the anastomosing duct , when the common one was tied up , and penetrated the substance of the other lobule as freely as that into which the pipe had been inserted .
Some of the lobules injected by the reflux of the mercury through the anastomnosing duct were dried , and various sections were submitted to microscopical examination .
At the greater end the lobules are minutely cellular ; these cells become elongated towards the centre of the lobule , and as it grows narrower , form minute tubes which tend towards , and terminate in a larger central canal , or receptacle , from which the excretory duct is continued .
When uninjected , the entire lobule might be readily supposed to be composed of minute tubes ; but it is difficult to imagine how the lobules can have been considered as hollow caecums or elongated follicles .
On making a section of the corium through the middle of the areola , the ducts were seen to converge in a slight degree towards the external surface ; but there was no trace of an inverted or concealed nipple , as has been observed in the kangaroo .
( Fig. 5 .
P1 .
XVIII .
represents a magnified view of this section , with a section of , one of the dried and injected lobules .
) The next stage of the inquiry was the examination of the ovary and other organs of generation in the specimens which had presented such a diversity of size in the mammary glands ; and as they exhibited in these dissections corresponding differences of developlnent , the following account of the structure of the uterine organs may not be wholly unacceptable , notwithstanding the extended memoir on the subject inserted by Professor GE .
OFFROY in the Menoires du Museum , tom .
xv .
p. 1 .
There is no part in the female Ornithorhynchus that can be properly termed vagina ; but the canal which leads from the orifices of the uteri to the external outlet may be divided into two portions : of these the first and most internal is termed by Professor GEOFFROY the urethro-sexual canal , as it conORNiTHORHYNCHUS PARADOXUS .
veys the urine and the genital products into the second or external cavity : for this part he retains the name , originally given to it by Sir EVERARD HOME , of vestibule , as it affords a common outlet to the preceding substances and the contents of the rectum .
The common vestibule is about one inch four lines in length , and varies from half an inch to an inch in diameter .
The muscular fibres immediately investing it are disposed as follows .
A thin circular muscle arises from a dorsal raph6 which extends the whole length of the canal .
Of this muscle the sacral fibres , ol those nearest the outlet , surround the whole vestibule ; but the atlantal or more internal fibres pass obliquely upwards and surround the termination of the rectum only , serving as a sphincter to it .
On the sternal aspect of the vestibule there are a series of longitudinal fibres , which extend from its external orifice to that of the urethro-sexual cavity , the office of which is to approximate these orifices , and in this action the oblique fibres above described would assist , while at the same time they closed the rectum .
On the sternal aspect of the urethro-sexual cavity , and close to where it joins the vestibule , the clitoris is situated , which is consequently about an inch and a half distant from the external orifice of the vestibule .
It is enclosed in a sheath upwards of an inch in length , and about two lines in diameter , of a white fibrous texture , and with a smooth internal surface , and this sheath communicates with the vestibule about a line from the external aperture .
The clitoris itself is a little flattened body shaped like a heart on playing-cards ; it is about three lines long , and two lines in diameter at its dilated extremity , where the mesial notch indicates the correspondence with the bifurcated penis of the male .
From the shortness of the clitoris , and the length of its sheath , it is obvious that no part of it can project into the vestibule in the ordinary state of the parts , as stated by Sir EVERARD HOME , its extremity being situated at least an inch distant from where its sheath communicates with that cavity .
At the base of the clitoris are two small round flattened glands which open into the sheath or preputium clitoridis .
These glands were largest in the specimen whose uterine organs were most developed .
The vestibule is lined by a dark-coloured cuticular membrane , and has a tolerably uniform surface .
The rectum opens freely into it posteriorly , the line of distinction in the relaxed state of the sphincter above mentioned being little more than a change in the character of the lining membrane .
The urethro-sexual canal , on the contrary , opens into the vestibule by a contracted orifice , and in one of the specimens examined , made a small circular and valvular projection into that cavity .
On either side the termination of the rectum there are from six to eight small apertures of darkcoloured glands or follicles , about the size of a pin 's head , situated immediately behind the proper membrane of the vestibule .
The urethro-sexual canal is one inch and a half long , and three or four lines in diameter , but capable of being dilated to as great an extent probably as the pelvis will admit of , the diameter of that passage being seven tenths of an inch .
It is also invested with a muscular coat , the external fibres of which are longitudinal ; the internal , circular .
The inner membrane of this part was disposed in longitudinal rugae more or less marked , but presented as little the character of a secreting membrane as that of the vestibule , being smooth and shining ; after a careful examination with the lens , the orifices of a few minute follicles were discovered in the interstices of the rugae near the orifice of the urinary bladder .
It is this division only of the passage from the uterus which is situated within the pelvis , the vestibule being produced beyond it , and the common outlet being in consequence situated at a considerable distance from the outlet of the pelvis , as in the beaver , which besides its analogy in habits to the Ornithorhynchus is also in the literal sense of the word monotrematous .
If , then , the Ornithorhynchus be really oviparous , its eggs must be disproportionately small compared with those of birds , in order to pass through the pelvis .
For on the supposition that they are of " c the size , shape , and colour of those of a hen * , " the yelk at least must be much smaller ; for it is obvious that this part only of such an egg could pass through the pelvis , and the albumen and shell must necessarily be laid on in the vestibule .
But , as has been before observed , neither the lining membrane of the vestibule nor that of the genito-urinary passage presents the characters of a secreting membrane ; and great alterations at least must take place in them , if they exercise any share in contributing to the nutrient store of the embryo .
At the atlantal extremity of the urethro-sexual canal there are five distinct orifices : the largest is in the middle and conducts into the urinary bladder ; about three lines below this orifice are those of the uteri , situated , each on a small nipple-like prominence , or os tincae ; and just below these , but on the same prominence , are the terminations of the ureters .
These prominences were most marked in the specimens with the largest ovary and uteri , and the one on the left side projects further than that on the right .
The uteri are two distinct tubes , not arising , like the horns of the uterus in ordinary quadrupeds , from a cavity peculiar to them , or corpus uteri ; but continued , as in tortoises , from a cavity into which the urinary bladder and ureters separately enter .
Neither is this the sole resemblance they bear to the oviducts of reptiles ; for , compared with ordinary quadrupeds , the distinction between the true uterus and Fallopian tube is but slightly marked , and the entire canal is thrown into many convolutions , partly by the process of peritoneum , or ligamentum latum , which attaches them to the pelvic region , and partly by means of a ligamentous chord upon which the convolutions are , as it were , strung .
In their natural state the uteri measure about three inches in length ; but when the convolutions are unfolded they extend to more than double that length ; the right uterus , however , being always the shortest .
The ligament above mentioned arises from the posterior parietes of the abdomen in the situation analogous to that of the testes in the male , viz. below , and a little to the outer side of the kidneys , and passes along the edge of the broad ligament to the Fallopian extremity of the uterine tube , where it divides ; one portion is continued along the posterior margin of the orifice of the uterine tube , the other along the corresponding edge of the ovary ; and after a course of an inch they again unite , and the ligament is continued along the anterior part of the uterus to the neck of the tube , where it is insensibly lost .
The two separated portions of the ligament support a large pouch of peritoneum , which forms the ovarian capsule ; the wide anterior orifice of the uterus is also by means of this ligament prevented from being displaced or drawn away from the ovary , during the actions of the rest of the tube .
The structure of the uterine tube is the same on both sides of the body .
It is enveloped in a loose external serous coat , connected to the muscular coat by filamentary processes of cellular memnbrane , among which , numerous tortuous vessels ramify .
The second tunic is a thin compact membrane , which I conclude to be muscular from analogy only , having been unable , even with a3 v2 527 high magnifying power , to detect a distinct arrangement of fibres in it .
It is most easily demonstrated as a distinct coat in the dilated uterine portion of the tube .
The innermost coat is a soft pulpy membrane with a slightly granular surface in the uterine portion of the tube , but thin and smooth in the Fallopian division .
The difference was most considerable in the specimen with the largest ovary , in the uterine portion of which this membrane was thickened and of a dark colour , but no villi were perceptible on it when examined with the lens .
The left uterus , in the specimen with the large ovary , ( Fig. 1 .
P1 .
XVI .
&amp; fig. 3 .
P1 .
XVII .
) was for the first two inches of its extent from four to five lines in diameter , and about a line thick in its parietes ; it then became suddenly contracted , and thinner in its coats , diminishing in diameter to about two lines , and afterwards slightly enlarging to within an inch of the extremity which forms a wide membranous pouch opening into the capsule of the ovary by an oblong orifice or slit of eight lines in extent .
The edges of this orifice were entire , as in the oviducts of reptiles ; not jagged as in the fimbriated extremlity of the Fallopian tube in ordinary quadrupeds : nevertheless the dilated and muscular part of the tube at its commencement may be considered as the true uterus , and the contracted portion beyond as the Fallopian tube .
The entire length of this uterus when detached from its connexions was nine inches .
The right uterus in the same specimen exhibited similar differences in diameter and structure ; but the contracted part representing the Fallopian tube was shorter in proportion to the true uterine division .
This uterus measured six inches in length .
In the specimen with the smallest developed ovary , ( P1 .
XV .
fig. 1 .
) the first portion of the uterine tubes was very little wider than the second , and not thicker in its coats ; the entire tubes were much less in all their dimensions than those just described , and the terminal cavity , thoughl more dilated than the rest of the tube , was also smaller .
In another specimen , in which the ovary ( P1 .
XVIII .
fig. 4 .
) appeared to have shed its contents , the uteri presented the same variations of diameter as in the specimen with the largely developed ovary ; but the parietes of the uterine portion were not so thick .
In the specimen above described with the large ovary , the thickened parietes of the first portion of the uterine tube depended chiefly on an increase of the 528 inner membrane , which possesses in a high degree the character of a secreting membrane .
This membrane at the cervix uteri presented in all the specimens many deep and close-set furrows , which as the canal grew wider were gradually lost , and the surface becanie more or less smooth in the different specimens , being most irregular in the specimen with the largest ovary : in the contracted part of the tube , the inner surface is at first smooth , but beyond that becomes finely reticulate , and in the terminal dilated part is again smooth .
The laminae at the cervix uteri , when seen from the urethro-sexual cavity projecting across the terminal orifice , give the appearance of that orifice being divided by a septum .
But in whatever way I have examined this part , I have never been able to detect such a division ; the uterine tubes have invariably presented only a single aperture of communication with the ulethro-sexual cavity .
Such a septum may , however , exist in the virgin state of the parts ; and on their assuming the natural functions , it may , like the hymen , be obliterated .
Professor GEOFFROY , who has described and represented this structure , ( Me6m .
du Mus6um , xv .
p. 32 .
P1 .
I. ) regards it as a rudimentary indication of the form of uterus peculiar to the Marsupiata .
In all the specimens but one , the ovary existed only on the left side ; it is appended to the portion of ligament* before mentioned , and is of a flattened oblong form .
In the specimen in which the mammary glands presented the smallest size ( Plate XV .
) , the left ovary consisted of a thin , smooth , and soft substance , measuring half an inch in length , three lines in breadth , and half a line in thickness ; the external covering was a tough membrane , beneath which were two black specks , but there was no appearance of ova ; the rest of the substance being cellular membrane only .
In the specimen ( P1 .
XVI .
) in which the mammary gland was a little more advanced than the preceding , the left ovary presented the highest observed degree of development ; and the right ovary was more distinct than in any of the other specimens .
The left ovary was nine lines in length , five in breadth , and from two to three in thickness , having numerous ova distinctly developed in it , two of which were two lines and a half in diameter ; and therefore , probably , not less than those which Mr. HILL has describedt as being the size of small peas .
These consisted of a tough capsule filled with a soft substance of a dark brown colour .
The remaining ova varied in diameter from a line to the fiftieth part of an inch , giving an irregular tuberculate surface to the ovary , and a superficial resemblance to the ovary or clutch in the bird : but in the Ornithorhynchus the ova are enveloped in a tough fibrous membrane , in which the traces of vascularity ( at least after having been preserved in spirits , ) are not perceptible , whilst in the fowl the ova are attached by narrow pedicles , and are covered by a thin and highly vascular membrane .
The right ovary in this specimen was of an elongated form , attached to , and apparently developed from the ligament above mentioned ; it was a thin substance about half an inch in length , and nearly two lines in breadth , with the surface studded over with incipient ova .
This appearance renders probable the supposition of Sir EVERARD IIOME that it may come into action at some period of the animars existence ; but the traces of it in all the other specimens could only be recognised in a slight thickening of the ligament .
The mammary glands in this specimen were each two inches four lines in length , eight lines in breadth , and nearly a line in thickness .
The lobules of the gland had increased more in length than breadth , being almost as narrow as in the smallest gland .
In both instances they were of the same colour and texture as in the largest glands .
In the specimens in which the mammary glands had arrived at their full size , the ovary presented the following appearance .
It was nearly as large , as respects length and breadth , as in the preceding case , but was much thinner , and its surface was rendered irregular by furrows and wrinkles .
There were also minute granules of a black colour immediately beneath the outer covering , but the body of the ovary was composed of a loose cellular texture only .
It may reasonably be concluded , therefore , on a comparison of these appearances with those exhibited in the ovaries previously described , that they indicated the condition of the ovary shortly subsequent to the performance of its peculiar functions , and that at this period , the circulation having been diverted to the neighbouring mammary organs , had contributed to their excessive development .
In the female wherein the ovary and the uteri were in apparently the lowest stage of adult development , and exhibited no traces of recent action , the mammary glands presented a volume indicative of a corresponding degree of inactivity .
Where the ovary had made a considerable advance towards perfection , the glands did not exhibit a corresponding degree of development ; they had only begun to enlarge and to manifest their obedience to the law of the sexual impulse .
But had their office been to secrete , as Professor GEOFFROY supposes , an odorous substance attractive of the male , their maximum of development ought to have been exhibited in this specimen , in which the uteri evinced , by their size and vascularity , traces of high excitement , and the ova appeared ripe for impregnation .
The greatest development of the abdominal glands , on the contrary , was observed where the ovary appeared to have recently executed its function .
The variation in size of these glands , in individuals of the same bulk , evidently points out that they are not adapted for the performlance of any constant office in the economy of the individual , but relate to a temporary function .
Otherwise , the circumstance of their yielding oil on pressure , as in the instance above mentioned , might have led to the supposition that they furnished a lubricating fluid useful to an animal of the aquatic habits of the Ornithorhynchus * That this temporary function , moreover , is peculiar to the economy of the female , cannot be doubted .
For in the male , both Dr. KNOX and Professor MECKEL have been unable to detect these glands ; and after a careful scrutiny , with the same view , in a well preserved specimen of that sex , I have not succeeded in detecting more than a few minute lobules occupying a space of about four lines in situations corresponding to those in the female ; but the nature of which , from the total absence of corresponding foramina on the external surface of the integument , may still be doubted .
Lastly , from the evidence derived from the uterine system in the present inquiry , the period when these glands exhibit the greatest activity , appears to be after gestation .
It therefore comes to be considered whether their structure is so widely different from the ordinary mammary gland as it has been represented to be .
Now , whether the secretion of these glands be milk or not , it is highly probable , from its being conveyed externally by long and narrow ducts , that it is of a liquid nature ; and this mode of being carried off is much more analogous to that exhibited in the ordinary lacteal apparatus than in the odoriferous glands , which more commonly open externally by one large and wide orifice .
The excretory orifices of the glands in the Ornitliorhynchus , moreover , are not extended over a wide surface , but are collected into a point , in all probability , not disproportionate to the size of the mouth in the young animal , and these points are situated in parts of the body most convenient for the transmission of a lacteal secretion from the mother to her offspring .
Compared with an ordinary mammary gland , that of the Ornithorhynchus differs chiefly in being of a cellular and not of an acinous or conglomerate structure ; as well as in the absence of the nipple and of the surrounding vascular structure necessary for its erection .
But the inconclusiveness of arguments drawn from these circumstances has been sufficiently demonstrated by Professors MECKEL and V. BAER in the work above quoted .
The question then arises , how the secretion of this gland , if mammary , is conveyed to the young ?
And with respect to the absence of a nipple , Professor GEOFFROY observes , " C'est ainsi chez un animal dont le museau est fait de faton que meme y aurait il un long t6tine un tel animal serait prive de la saisir et de la sucer .
" But with a form of mouth so extraordinary and unlike that of other quadrupeds , might we not expect some corresponding deviation from the normal structure in the efferent portion of the mammary apparatus ?
And if a nipple would indeed have been useless or unavailable in this case , have we not then the best reason for its absence ?
Unless , however , we limit nature to one mode only of conveying the lactiferous secretion from the parent to the offspring , I apprehend the evidence afforded by the preceding details will hardly render tenable any other theory than that which upholds the mammary nature of the glands in question .
Fortunately , an instance has already been afforded , and that too in the Mar supiata , of a structure superadded to the mammary gland apparently to coinpensate for a want of sufficient power of suction in the young animal* .
So also in the Ornithorhynchus the strong panniculus carnosus which is every where interposed between the glands and the skin , may compress the glands against the flattened cartilages of the ribs and the marsupial bones , and occasion the expulsion of the secreted fluid ; while the great extent and the yielding texture of the gland seem peculiarly to adapt it to be so influenced .
In this case the mouth of the young animal need only be applied to the areola to receive the secretion ; and it is particularly worthy of remark , that the great distinction between the mandibles of the Ornithorhynchus and those of the Bird consists in the former being , even in the adult state , surpassed by thick , soft , muscular , extremely sensible and flexible lips .
APPENDIX .
Whilst the preceding account was going through the press , the following interesting communication was made by Dr. WEATHERHEAD to the Conrmittee of Science of the Zoological , Society .
After stating that he had received a letter from his fiiend Lieutenant the Hon. LAUDERDALE MAULE of the 39th Regiment , at present in New South Wales , informing him of his having forwarded , among other curious objects of natural history , the carcases of the female Ornithorhynchus and her young , he proceeds to give the following extracts from Lieutenant MAULE'S letter : " ' Several of their ( the Ornithorhynchuses ' ) nests were with consiclderable labour and difficulty discovered .
No eggs were found in a perfect state , but pieces of substance resembling egg-shell were picked out of the debris of the nest .
In the insides of several female Platypi which were shot , eggs were found of the size of a large musket-ball and downwards , imperfectly formed however , i. e. without the hard outer shell , which prevented their preservation .
Several young Platypi were obtained and put into spirits , in which state they are forwarded .
' " In another part of his letter Mr. MAULE states , that in one of the nests he was fortunate enough to secure an old female and two young .
The female lived for about two weeks on worms and bread and milk , being abundantly supplied with water , and supported her young , as it was supposed , by similar means .
She was killed by an accident on the fourteenth day after her cap ture , and on skinning her while yet warm , it was observed that milk oozed through the fur on the stomach , although no teats were visible on the most minute inspection ; but on proceeding with the operation two teats or canals were discovered , both of which contained milk .
The carcase also of this female Mr. MAULE has kindly forwarded .
" In the preceding account , therefore , two important facts are distinctly stated ; the one , that the ova of the Ornithorhynchus attain the size of a large musketball , and , like the eggs of the ovo-viviparous reptiles , have a soft outer covering ; the other , that the fluid secreted by the abdominal glands is milk .
The first of these statements wxould of course derive additional value if the period of the year were stated when the eggs so developed were observed ; and the precise part of the body in which they were situated , whether in the ovary , the oviduct , or the cloaca : also , whether they were observed at the same time that the female with her young was captured , or at what distance of time from that event .
With respect to the supposed portions of egg-shell found in the nest , it is obviously far from being conclusive as to the oviparous character of the Ornithorhynchus ; since , when it is considered that the excrement and urine are expelled by the same orifice , we may readily suppose the former to be coated , as in birds , with the salts of the urine , and to have given rise to the above appearances .
The information respecting the mammary glands is much more satisfactory , and must be regarded as decisive of the question relative to their function .
The mode of suckling appears , indeed , not to have been observed ; but the ready escape of the secreted fluid after death , during the process of skinning , is corroborative of the opinion previously advanced as to the manner in which the milk is expelled .
Among the other points of interest for which the scientific world is so highlly indebted to the exertions of Lieutenant MAULE , that of discovering the number of young produced by the Ornithorhynchus may in all probability be reckoned ; and it would appear , that , as in other Mammalia , it corresponds with the number of nipples , or outlets for the mammary secretion .
534 lil i/ iii ' - !
a ':B ?
; ?
- ?
:9 H-li ?
I ii i1 jg ir r-s i u:ia , ---- " r ; l_ B ?
U , I ?
I. ---:n lili ? ? ?
?i ?
II:ri L i1K 1 D ; 1'^ IIIi i Description of the PLATES .
PLATE XV .
Fig. 1 .
The organs of generation in the unexcited state , with the urinary bladder and rectum of a full-grown female Ornithorhynchus .
a. The external outlet or orifice of the vestibule .
b. The vestibule .
c. The urethro-sexual canal .
d , d. The uterine tubes or oviducts .
e , e. Their anterior or Fallopian orifices .
f. The ovary , developed only on the left side .
g , g. The ovarian capsules or peritoneal bags connecting the ovarian ligaments with the Fallopian extremities of the uterine tubes .
h , h. The processes of peritoneum connecting the oviducts to the ligaments i , i. k. The urinary bladder .
1 .
The rectum .
m. The clitoris .
n. The sheath or preputium clitoridis .
n ' .
Plate XVI .
A bristle passed into the sheath through the orifice in the vestibule .
o , o. Two small glands which open into the sheath of the clitoris .
p. Outline of the pelvis , showing its relation to the urethro-sexual canal .
Fig. 2 .
One of the mammary glands from the same individual , exhibiting the lowest observed degree of development .
a. The gland .
a ' , a ' .
Sheaths of cellular membrane which could be inflated , and had been occupied prdbably with the glandular lobules at a previous period of enlargement .
b. The panniculus carnosus .
c. The integument .
PLATE XVI .
Fig. 1 .
The organs of generation of another adult female , which were pro3z 2 535 bably prepared for impregnation .
The letters indicate the same parts as in the preceding plate : f ' is the ovary , slightly developed on the right side .
Fig. 2 .
One of the mammary glands , from the same individual , beginning to enlarge .
PLATE XVII .
Fig. 1 .
The same parts as are represented in fig. 1 .
of the preceding plate , but further dissected and laid open .
a. The common outlet or orifice of the vestibule .
b. The vestibule , with its anterior or sternal parietes removed .
b ' .
A probe passed through the rectum into the vestibule .
c. The urethro-sexual canal laid open .
c ' .
The orifice by which the urethro-sexual canal communicates with the vestibule .
d , d. The dilated or uterine portions of the oviducts laid open .
d ' , d ' .
The contracted or Fallopian portions : that on the left side is laid open through its whole extent , showing the dilated cavity at d " .
e , e. The wide slits which form the orifices of the oviducts .
f , f ' .
The ovaries .
i , i. The ligaments which attach the oviducts and ovaries to the back of the abdomen .
k. The urinary bladder opening into the atlantal extremity of the urethro-sexual canal .
1 , I. The ureters , through which bristles are passed to show their terminations in the urethlo-sexual canal .
m. The orifices of the uterine tubes ; that on the left side is laid open .
They were each situated in this instance on a prominence resembling an os tincae .
This figure is in some measure a repetition of the preceding ; but is here added , as it supplies some of the deficiencies in the figures previously given of these remarkable organs .
The figure in the ninety-second volume of the Philosophical Transactions , P1 .
IV .
represents both the uterine tubes of the same size ; and neither the Fallopian orifices , the ovaries , nor the terminations of the ureters are shown .
In the more recent figure by Professor 536 J.Fwimi.ru .
IMD CCC_XX IIt. .
, Z XVf i./ 2/ J 7 .
C C:d *~~~~~~~r j.~~~~~~~~~i .
pr S~ iA - .
at , lca n. 77 ( li 7 .
l. _F9 .
2 .
2i ?
/ 2 ?
^i 5 .
a t^ V:I ?
ii Kii 3Ay .
' 4 .
/ ( [ 1 1 LI i J~ , Zr~ &lt; -:1- ?
( N -K -fi .
24 $6 4 ?
a " p ?
rs- ?
.-pp ' Pj 35 ; " ' Ibo &lt; --r .
1I%'"I_ ' _ .
____ __= , __ ( M6m .
du Mus6um , P1 .
I. fig. 6 .
) the right uterine tube is omitted , and the left is made to terminate in a point without any indication of the Fallopian orifice or of the ovarian capsule .
FigE 2 .
A portion of the integument from the abdomen of the Spiny Anteater ( Echidna hystrix , Cuv .
) showing at a , the mammary areola .
Fig. 3 .
a. The mammary gland of the Echidna hystrix .
b. The panniculus carnosus .
c. The integument .
This specimen was taken from a young female nearly arrived at maturity , but which had probably never been impregnated ; it consequently exhibits the gland in a low stage of development .
The glands are two in number as in the Ornithorhynchus , and are situated about half an inch from the mesial line of the abdomen , and three inches and a half anterior to the cloaca .
They are each composed , as in the Ornithorhynchus , of numerous elongated lobes , which converge towards the mesial line , their ducts penetrating the integument , and forming by the aggregation of their orifices a small areola externally .
This areola is more easily distinguished in the Echidna , from the hairs on the abdomen being more scattered ; it is not situated on an eminence , nor surrounded by any erectile tissue : it is made up of about sixty orifices .
The lobes of the gland are proportionally broader and shorter than in the Ornithorhynchus .
A strong panniculus carnosus is similarly interposed between them and the integument , and the fibres of this muscle separate to allow the ducts to pass through , as represented in the Plate .
The lobes are not mere caecums , but present under the lens a similar texture to those in the Ornithorhynchus .
PLATE XVIII .
Fig. 1 .
A portion of integument from the abdomen of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus , with the hairs removed so as to exhibit the mammary areola .
537 Fig. 2 .
A magnified view of the mammary areola , showing the orifices of the ducts of the glandular lobules .
Fig. 3 .
The mammary gland of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus in a state of full development ; the exact dimensions of the gland are preserved .
Fig. 4 .
The left ovary and Fallopian extremity of the oviduct of the same specimen .
( The letters indicate the same parts as in P1 .
XV .
) Fig. 5 .
a. A magnified view of a section of one of the lobules of the mammary gland , after having been injected with quicksilver , and dried .
b , b. The extremities of the ducts of the other lobules converging as they pass through the integument to the mammary areola .
c. The fibres of the panniculus carnosus .
d. The integument .
The preparations described in the preceding paper have been deposited in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons .

