II .
" On the Lightning Spectrum .
" By Lieut. JOHN HERSC-EL , R.E. Communicated by Prof. STOKES .
Received August 8 , 1868 .
I have had two or three opportunities of seeing this spectrum to advantage of late .
The storms at the period of the setting in of the south-west monsoon here are very frequent , and supply for a time almost incessant flashes , many of which are of course very brilliant .
The first time I examined the light in the spectroscope I had no idea of measuring , but was content to realize the principal facts of a continuous spectrum crossed by bright lines ; but subsequently I made several attempts ( with some success ) to obtain measures .
That I was unable to do more in this line is due partly to the difficulty of utilizing the short-lived appearance , partly to that fascination of waiting for " one more " bright flash to verify the intersection , which can only be thoroughly appreciated by the aid of a similar experience .
The principal features of the spectrum are a more or less bright continuous spectrum crossed by numerous bright lines , so numerous indeed as to perplex one as to their identity .
This perplexity is increased by the constantly changing appearance due to a variable illuminating power .
This variable character of the appearances is unquestionably the peculiar feature of the spectrum .
It is not that the whole spectrum varies in brightness in the same degree , but that the relative intensities are variable , not only among the various lines , but between these and the continuous spectrum .
The latter is sometimes very brilliant ; and when that is the case , the red portion is very striking , though in general the spectrum seems to end ab .
ruptly at D +-034 ( E-=D+ 1'38 , Kirchhoff 's 120 7=D+0'55 ) .
There is one principal line which I found equal to D+ 2'20 as the result of five independent measures .
The probable error of this value is about +'02 .
The general mean of all my measures of the principal nebular line ( obtained from twelve different nebule ) is 2 18 , with a probable error of about + -02 .
I have therefore very little doubt that these are the same , viz. the nitrogen line identified in the case of nebule by Mr. Huggins .
This line in the lightning spectrum is narrow and sharply defined , and is conspicuously the brightest , except as noted below .
The next in prominence is situated about D+ 3-58 ( F=D + 2'73 , Kirchhoff 's 2325 =D+3 50 ) .
It is broader and less vivid , and not so well defined at the edges .
There are several other conspicuous lines , but none comparable to the first .
I noticed a sharp line in the red , but did not get a measure .
I said that at D +0'34 the continuous spectrum ends abruptly .
A faint continuation is , however , seen frequently in bright flashes , very bright ones bringing out a brilliant red end crossed by a bright line .
The whole of the ordinary spectrum seems green and blue , or rather greenish blue ; but as the usual prismatic order of colours is recognizable in bright flashes , it is to be inferred that the region from E to F is so much 61 brighter as to give the character in question .
What strikes one most , however , is the varying relative brightness of the continuous and linear spectra ; sometimes the lines are scarcely seen , and sometimes very little else is seen .
This may be nothing more than an illusion ; but in the absence of any certainty that it is so , the impression left on the mind is worth recording .
The difficulty of discriminating between the many less prominent lines is immensely increased by the momentary character of the phenomenon .
Before the mind has selected an individual , the feeble impression on the retina has vanished ; and before another flash succeeds , the memory of the half-formed choice has vanished with it , and there is nothing on which to found a selection .
Otherwise it would be easy enough to measure many more lines .

