Observations and Experiments on the Daily Variation of the Horizontal and Dipping Needles under a reduced Directive Power .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated by Davies Gilbert , Esq. V.P.R.S. Read June 12 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 326 .
] By disposing magnets so as partly to counteract .
the influence of the earth 's polarity on a magnetic needle , the author suspected that its daily variation might possibly exhibit itself in a very increased degree ; and in experimentally prosecuting the idea , he found it to be the case to a very considerable extent in regard to the horizontal needle ; and to take place also , though less satisfactorily , with the dipping-needle .
In the former experiment a finely suspended horizontal needle was used , the directive power of which was reduced by two magnets , properly placed for the purpose ; a deviation of 30 15 ' was thus obtained at 11 A.M. , which decreased to a late hour in the evening .
The needle was kept in the same position for three days , with some change of directive power , with similar general results .
After adverting to a difference in the direction of the variation in and out of doors , Mr. Barlow details the results of several experiments , which lead him to the following conclusions:-that while the north end of the needle is directed to any point from the S. to N.N.W. , its motion during the forenoon advances towards the N. ; and while directed towards any point between the N. and S.S.E. its motion is still to some point between the N. and N.N.W. , so that there ought to be some direction between those limits in which the daily motion is a minimum : but whether this is a fixed direction during the year , or whether it has any vibratory motion as the sun changes its declination , is a question requiring further experiments to determine .
Another conclusion which the author draws is , that the daily change is not produced by a general deflection of the directive power of the earth , but by an increase and decrease of attraction of some point between the N. and N.N.E. , or between the S. and S.S.E. The variation of the adjusted dipping-needle did not indicate the gradually increasing and decreasing power manifested by the horizontal needle ; and although it evidently is subject to diurnal change , the law of that change remains to be determined .

