]\gt ; Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Nov. 20 , III .
' The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Part .
Electrical Conductivity\mdash ; continued .
The Alteration of the Electrical Conductivity of Cobalt , Magnesium , Steel , and Platinum-Iridium produced by raction ; Discovery of simple Relations between the Critical Points ' Metals By HERBERT TOMLINSON , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. GRYLLS ADAMS , M.A. , .
Received October 7 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The effect of temporary longitudinal traction on the electrical resistance of cobalb was determined by a method similar to that already described in a former portion of this memoir , and it was found that , like nickel , this metal has its resistance decreased by moderate bemporary stxess , in spite of the changes of dimensions which ensue .
Whether the decrease of resistance would be changed to increase , as it is with nickel , by a greater amount of stress , has not yet been ascertained , buli should this be the case , the magnitude of the str per unit area which would suffice for the purpose must be much greater with cobalt than with nickel .
As with nickel , permanent extension and rolling diminish the effect of temporary longitudinal traction , so that there is a larger decrease of resistance caused by a given stress with annealed than with unalmealed cobalt .
Cobalt is remarkable the extreme persistence with which the same load , when applied again and again , continues to produce permanent increase of resistance , and probably increase of length , but for a moderate amount of nent extension the increase of resistance is more than accounted for by the permanent ncrease of length and diminution of section which take place ; so that , as with iron and nickel , the speciJic is decreased by moderate permanent extension .
The permanent decrease of specific resistance per unit for unit permanent increase of length is , for iron , cobalt , and nickel , , and respectively ; thus the permanent decrease of specific resistance , as well as the temporary decrease of resistance , is greater with nickel than cobalt .
Since contrary to the expectation arising from the apparent relationship which exists between the " " rotational coefficient\ldquo ; of Hall , and the aIteration of specific resistance caused by mechanical cobalt behaved like nickel , and not lik ' , iron ; the effect of longitudinal * Points at which there is a sudden increase in the l.atio of the permanent extension produced by load and the load itself .
" " Phil. Trans Part I , 1883 , p. 58 .
, pp. 167 , 168 , 1884 .
] Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
387 traction on the thermo-electric qualities of cobalt was examined , and it was found that temporary dinal traction renders cobalt tem- porarily posihve as regards its thermo-electric qualities , to cobalt not under traction , provided there is no magnetic stress acting at the same time on the metal .
The results obtained would , erefore , not only be adverse to the above-mentioned hypothesis of the author , but also to Bidwell 's theory that -he " " Hall effect\ldquo ; is due to the joint action of mechanical strain and certain " " Peltier eflects were it not that in Hall 's nents the metal is under very considerable magnetic stress , which latter has been proved to alter very appreciably the thermo-electric properties of iron , nickel , and cobalt , under these circumstances both the e#ect of mechanical stress on the specific resistance and that on the thermo-electric qualities of cobalt may be different to what they are , when there is no magnetic stress acting on the metal .
Longitudinal magnetic stress was found to render cobalt negative thermo-eIectrical to cobalt not under stress .
The cobalt used was in the form of a strip , and the section , which was fairly uniform throughout the whole length , was square cm .
; the length was cm .
, and the mass grams .
The value of ' Young 's dulus \ldquo ; was determined by the mebhod of longitudinal vibrations , the strip being held in the centre , and rubbed along its length with a resined glove .
The effect of tracl-ion on the electrical resistance of unannealed piano-steel was tried , the stress used being eventnally increased nearly to the breaking-point , with the view of ining whether the increase of specific resistance which had been previously found to follow on moderate traclion might not be to decrease .
This was not the case ; but , on the coutrary , whatever the permanent load might be .
a temporary addition to this produced exactly the same tcmporary effect .
The.fresh experiments , however , confirmed the results obtained with the ] ones , and agreed with these in making alteration of resistance due to traction , both for unit stress per square unit of area and per unit increase of length , less for steel than for iron .
The electrical resistance of magnesium proved to be temporarily increased by temporary longitudinal traction of moderate amount , but the amount of increase was less than could be accounted for by mere change of dimensions , so the specific resis ance of like that of aluminium , is decreased by the temporary .
Jt lvas found also that uhen the permanent load on the wixe is small , both the temporary increase of length and the temporary increase of resist* See Sir William Thomson 's paper on " " The Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals " " Phil. Trans Part , 18,56 ; also follows .
" " Phil. Trans Part I , 1883 , p. 152 .
388 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Nov. 20 , dus to traction ease in proportion than the load .
The se of lengtl ] , however , increases less rapidly than the increaso of resistance , so that when the stress exceeds a certain limit , the abovementioned decroase of specific resistance is changed to a similar state of things wouId be found to occur with aluminium .
The value of " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; was determined for magnesium , both by the of static extension and that of longitudinal vibrations , the results obtained by the two methods agreeing fairly each other .
The " " simple rigidity\ldquo ; was determined by the method of torsional vibrations .
of the " " bulk-modulus ' ' was determined from the values of " " Young 's modulus and the " " simple rigidity\ldquo ; to be grams per square centinletre , and this value agreed with that deduced from a given in a former portion of this memoir* within 2 per cent. This formula is where is the " " bulk , modulus\ldquo ; in grams per squaro centimetre , and thermal capacity per unit volumc between C. and C. The results ) tained from the experiments on the effects of stress on the spccific resistance of magncsium in perfect accordwith the vicw that there is a tion between the " " Hall effect\ldquo ; and the altcration of spccific resistance .
rIhe electrical tance of the alloy is more tcmporary longitudinal traction than that of either of the componcnts alloy .
On the contrary the electrical sistances of platinum-silver , -silver , and brass are all considerably less increase ) than is the case with their components .
This circumstance would rather militate against the employment of platinum-iridium in making standard coils .
The increase of resistance alluded to ave is much greatcr than can be counted for by of dimensions , so that the increase of specific resistance produced by longitudinal traction is considerably greater than is the cass with any of those other metals examined whose resistance is increased by traction .
The alteration of resistance bove mentioned at first increases in greatcr proportion than the load , but , when a certain limit of stress has been reached , the ratio of the temI ) orary incrcase of resistance to the load producing it begins to diminish , and finally reaches the same *Reccived by the Royal Society , , 1884 , and as yet only read in 90 parts by mnss of platinum parts of iridium .
1884 .
] Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
389 value as at first .
A tendency to a similar state of is seen with the other metaIs , but in none is the phenomenoll so pronounced as in platinum-iridium .
The value of " " modulus\ldquo ; was determined for platinumiridium , both by the method of static extension , and by that of longitudinal vibrations , and the results obtained were in fair agreement .
' ' Young 's modulus\ldquo ; is with the alloy considerably greater than with the two components , so much so as quite to equal if not to excel the value of .
the same modulus for piano-steel .
The " " simple rjoDidity\ldquo ; got by the method of torsional vibrations is also considerably greater with t alloy than with its components .
Unstretched -silver was found to be thermo-electrically positive to the temporarily stretch , , and a very striking exception to the rule which holds good for most metals , namely , that those metals which are increased to a comparatively ] extent by traction in specific resistance are those which are rendered most thermo-electrically by traction .
A further examination was made of the " " critical points\ldquo ; of metals , i.e. , points at which there is a sudden increase of the ratio of the manent extension or permanent change of resistance produced by loading , and the load when the latter is increased by small and equal amounts at a time .
This examination ended in the discovery of a fourth " " critical point occurring with a load exactly half of that at the prsviously so-called.first " " critical ] ) oint further , it was ascertained that the four " " critical points\ldquo ; in the remarl-ably simple ratios 1 : 2 : 3 : 4 .
Table I gives lods at the four " " critical points and their relation to " " modulus\ldquo ; for all the metals which have been as yet examined .
The above table shows not only that the four " " critical points\ldquo ; are in the above-mentioned simple ratios , but also that wit , all metads the value of " " 's modnlus\ldquo ; bears a ratio to the loads at each of the " " critical points In Table II are given most of those results of the esent inquiry which can be expressed by numbers : \mdash ; 1884 .
] Stress and Strain on the of Matter .
) 1\mdash ; 5 ;

