Candidates for Election .
[ Mar. 1 , ( 56 March 1 , 1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursnance of the Statutes , the names of Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Aitchison , James Edward Tierney , Surgeon-Major , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , F.R.S.E. Allman , Professor George Johnston , LL. D. Baird , A. W. , Major R.E* Baxendell , Joseph , F.R. A.S. Bell , James , F.I.C. Browne , James Crichton , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S.E. Browne , Walter Raleigh , M.A. , M.I.C.E. Buchanan , Professor George , M.A. , M.D. Burdett , Henry Charles , F.L.S. , F.S.S. Colomb , Philip H. , Captain R.N. Creak , Ettrick William , Staff Commander R.N. Cunningham , Allan J oseph Champneys , Major R.E. Curtis , Arthur Hill , A.M. , LL. D. , D.Sc .
Dobson , George Edward , Surgeon-Major , M.A. , M.B. , F.L.S. Duncan , James Matthews , A.M. , M.D. , LL. D. Fitzgerald , Prof. George Francis , M.A. Flight , Walter , D.Sc .
, F.G.S. Foster , Professor Balthazar Walter , F.R.C.P. Frost , Rev. Percival , M.A. Gill , David , LL. D. , F.R.A.S. Goodeve , Professor Thomas Min-chin , M.A. Groves , Charles Edward , F.C.S. Grubb , Howard , F.R.A.S. Herschel , Professor Alexander Stewart .
Hicks , Henry , M.D. , F.G.S. Hudleston , Wilfrid H. , M.A. , F.G.S. , F.C.S. Kent , William Saville , F.Z.S. Langley , John Newport , M.A. McKendriek , John G. , M.D. Meldola , Raphael , F.R.A.S. , F.C.S. Miller , Francis Bowyer , F.C.S. Milne , Professor John , F.G.S. Priestley , Professor William Overend , M.D. , F.R.C.P. Pritchard , Urban , M.D. , F.R.C.S. Ransome , Arthur , M.A. , M.D. Remold , Professor Arnold William , M.A. Rendel , George Wightwick , M.I.C.E. Ringer , Professor Sydney , M.D. Rodwell , George F. , F.R.A.S. , F.C.S. Sanders , Alfred , M.R.C.S. , F.L.S. Tenison-Woods , Rev. Julian E. , M.A. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. Tidy , Professor Charles Meymott , M.B. , F.C.S. Tribe , Alfred , F.C.S. Trimen , Roland , F.L.S. , F.Z.S. Venn , John , M.A. 1883 .
] Chemistry of Storage Batteries .
Walker , Jolm James , M.A. Warren , Charles , C.M.G. , Major .
R.E. The following Paper was read:\#151 ; Watson , Professor Morrison , M.D. Williams , Charles Theodore , M. A. , M.D. , F.R.C.P. I. " Contributions to the Chemistry of Storage Batteries/ ' By E. Frankland , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1883 .
1 .
Chemical Reactions.\#151 ; The chemical changes occurring during the charging and discharging of storage batteries have been the subject of considerable difference of opinion amongst chemists and physicists .
Some writers believe that much of the storage effect depends upon the occlusion of oxygen and hydrogen gases by the positive and negative plates or by the active material thereon , some contend that lead sulphate plays an important part , whilst others assert that no chemical change of this sulphate occurs either in the charging or discharging of the plates .
To test the first of these opinions , I made two plates of strips of thin lead twisted into corkscrew form , and after filling the glitter of the screw with minium , so as to form a cylinder that could be afterwards introduced into a piece of combustion-tubing , these plates were immersed in dilute sulphuric acid and charged by the dynamo-current in the usual manner .
The charging was continued until the whole of the minium on the + and \#151 ; plates respectively was converted into lead peroxide and spongy lead , and until gas bubbles streamed from the pores of the two cylinders .
After removal from the acid the plates were superficially dried by filter-paper , and immediately introduced into separate pieces of combustion-tubing previously drawn out at one end , so as to form gas delivery tubes .
The wide ends of these tubes were then sealed before the blowpipe , care being taken not to allow the heat to reach the enclosed cylinders .
The tube containing the cylinder of reduced lead was now gradually heated until the lead melted , the drawn-out end of the tube meanwhile dipping into a pneumatic trough .
The gas expelled from the tube consisted almost exclusively of the expanded air of the tube and contained mere traces of hydrogen .
The tube containing the cylinder of lead peroxide was similarly treated , except that the heat was not carried high enough to decompose the peroxide .
Mere traces , if any , of occluded oxygen were evolved .
These results justify the conclusion that occluded gases play , practically , no part in the phenomena of the storage cell .
With regard to the function of lead sulphate in storage batteries , f 2 Dr. E. Frankland .
[ Mar. 1 , I have observed that during the so-called " formation " of a storage ; cell , a very large amount of sulphuric acid disappears from the liquid contents of the cell : indeed sometimes the whole of it is withdrawn .
The acid so removed must be employed in the formation of insoluble lead sulphate upon the plates which , in fact , soon become coated with a white deposit of the salt , formed equally upon both positive and negative surfaces . .
This visible deposit is , however , very superficial , and does not account for more than a very small fraction of the acid which actually disappears from solution .
The great bulk of the lead sulphate cannot be discovered by the eye , owing to its admixture with chocolate-coloured lead peroxide .
Unless the coated plates have been previously immersed for several days in dilute sulphuric acid , this disappearance of acid during their " formation " continues for ten or twelve days .
At length , however , as the charging goes on , the strength of the acid ceases to diminish and soon afterwards begins to augment .
The increase continues until the maximum charge has been reached and abundance of oxygen and hydrogen gases begin to be discharged from the plates ; that is to say , until the current is occupied exclusively , or nearly so , in the electrolysis of hexabasic sulphuric acid expressed by Burgoin in the following equation:\#151 ; Eliminated on Eliminated on + plate .
\#151 ; plate .
S06H6 = S03 +_30 + 3H2 .
Sulphuric acid .
Sulphuric anhydride .
Of course the sulphuric anhydride immediately combines with water and regenerates hexabasic sulphuric acid :\#151 ; SOg + 30H2=S06H6 .
On discharging the cell , the specific gravity of the acid continually decreases until the discharge is finished , when it is found to have sunk to about the same point from which it began to increase during the charging .
Hence it is evident that , during the discharge , the lead sulphate , which was continuously decomposed in charging , was continuously reformed in discharging .
The chief if not the only chemical changes occurring during the charging of a storage battery , therefore , appear to be the following :\#166 ; 1st .
The electrolysis of hexabasic sulphuric acid according to the equation already given .
2nd .
The reconversion of sulphuric anhydride into sulphuric acid .
3rd .
The chemical action on the coating of the + plate .
S04Pb + 0 + 30H2 = Pb02 + S06H6 .
Lead sulphate .
Lead peroxide .
Hexabasic sulphuric acid .
1383 .
] Chemistry of Storage Batteries .
69 .
4th .
The chemical action on the coating of the negative plate S04Pb -+ .
H2-1-20H2 = Pb + SOgHg .
Lead sulphate .
Hexabasic sulphuric acid .
If I have correctly described these changes , the initial action in the charging of a storage cell is the electrolysis of hexabasic sulphuric ; acid , each molecule of which throws upon the positive plate three atoms of oxygen , and upon the negative plate six atoms or three molecules of hydrogen .
Bach atom of oxygen decomposes one molecule 0f lead sulphate on the positive plate , producing one molecule of lead peroxide , and one of sulphuric anhydride , the latter instantly-uniting with three molecules of water to form hexabasic sulphuric acid .
\#166 ; q : \lt ; - lq The following are the chemical changes which I conceive to occur during the discharge of a storage cell : 1st .
The electrolysis of hexabasic sulphuric acid as in charging .
2nd .
The reconversion of sulphuric anhydride into hexabasic sulphuric acid as already described . .
: \lt ; 3rd .
The chemical action upon the coating of what was before these positive plate or electrode , but which now becomes the negative plate of the cell , that is to say , the plate from which the positive current , issues to the external circuit:\#151 ; Pb02 + H2 = PbO + OH2:Lead peroxide .
Lead oxide .
W afcer .
The lead oxide thus formed is immediately converted into lead Sulphate:\#151 ; PbO + SOgHg = S04Pb+30H2 .
4th .
The chemical action upon the coating of what has now become !
the positive plate of the cell:\#151 ; Pb -f O + SOgHg= S04Pb + 30H2 .
Thus in discharging , as in charging , a storage cell , the initial action is the electrolysis of hexabasic sulphuric acid .
The oxygen eliminated on the positive plate reconverts the reduced metal of that plate into lead oxide , whilst the hydrogen transforms the lead peroxide on the negative plate into the same oxide , which in both cases is immediately converted into lead sulphate by the surrounding sulphuric acid , thus restoring both plates to their original condition before the charging began .
The real " formation " of the cell consists , I conceive , in the more or less thorough decomposition of those portions of the lead sulphate which are comparatively remote from the conducting metallic nucleus of the plate .
Lead sulphate itself has a very low conductivity , whilst lead peroxide , and especially spongy lead , offer comparatively little Chemistry of Storage Batteries .
[ Mar. 1 , resistance to the current , which is thus enabled to bring the outlying portions of the coating under its influence .
It may be objected that , during the discharge , the work of formation would be undone ; but probably , in the ordinary use of a storage battery , the discharge is never completed .
Thus I have found that , in a small cell containing two plates 6 " x 2 " , short circuiting with a thick copper wire for twelve hours was far from producing complete discharge , for on breaking this short circuit , the cell instantly rang violently an electric bell with which it was previously connected .
In ordinary discharges of " formed " cells , therefore , the lead sulphate on the positive and negative plates still remains mixed with sufficient lead oxide and spongy lead respectively to give it a higher conducting power than the sulphate alone possesses .
2 .
Chemical Estimation of the Charge in a Storage Cell.\#151 ; No method has hitherto been known by which the charge in a storage cell could be ascertained without discharging the cell ; but the results of the foregoing experiments indicate a very simple means of ascertaining the amount of stored energy without any interference with the charge itself .
The specific gravity and consequent strength of the dilute sulphuric acid of a " formed " cell being known in its uncharged and also in its fully charged condition , it is only necessary to take the specific gravity of the acid at any time in order to ascertain the proportion of its full charge which the cell contains at that moment ; and if the duty of the cell is known , the amount of energy stored will also be thereby indicated .
In the case of the cell with which I have experimented , containing about seven quarts of dilute sulphuric acid , each increase of *005 in the specific gravity of the dilute acid means a storage of energy equal to 20 amperes of current for one hour , obtainable on discharge .
I hope shortly to be able to express , in terms of current from the cell , the definite relation between the amount of energy stored and the weight of sulphuric acid liberated .

