155 The Experimental Transmission of Goitre from Man to Animals .
By Robert McCarrison , M.D. , M.R.C.P. ( Lond. ) , Captain , Indian Medical Service ; Agency Surgeon , Gilgit , Kashmere .
( Communicated by Major Ronald Ross , C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 3 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1911 .
) [ Plate 1* ] Experiments had repeatedly been carried out on dogs to test the assumption that goitre could be conveyed from man to animals by faecal infection of the water supply , but with negative results .
In the present experiments female goats were employed .
The drinking water supplied to these goats was fouled by passing through a specially constructed box , which contained sterilised soil mixed with the faeces of goitrous individuals .
In the case of one batch of six goats , only this water was consumed .
In the case of another batch of seven goats the box above referred to contained , in addition to the sterilised soil and faeces , 500 earthworms .
These were* added on the assumption that they might act as intermediate hosts to the infecting agent of the disease .
The goats consumed this highly polluted water for 64 days , from October 13 to December 15 , 1910 .
The results observed were ( 1 ) a loss of weight , due doubtless to confinement in a small hut for the 64 days of the experiment ; ( 2 ) that many of them suffered from diarrhoea ; and ( 3 ) that 50 per cent , of the animals showed enlargements of the thyroid gland , most marked on the right side .
The thyroids of three control goats showed no alteration in size .
The enlargement of the thyroid was observed to fluctuate in size considerably , a fact which had previously been noted in the case of experimentally produced goitre in man .
The average weight of the normal thyroid of the goat in Gilgit is 1/ 10,000 part of the body weight .
The enlarged glands of the goats in the experiment were found to weigh from 1/ 4,272 to 1/ 7,000 part of the body weight .
In both batches drinking fouled water the results observed were the same .
Microscopical examination of the enlarged organs showed varying degrees of dilatation of the vesicles , scarcity or almost complete disappearance of the masses of cells lying between the vesicles , while no alterations were observed to have taken place in the connective tissue stroma of the enlarged glands .
The hypertrophy was due wholly to distension of the vesicle with colloid , and the formation of new vesicles from the intravesicular masses of cells .
It is concluded that\#151 ; VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. .
N 156 Messrs. H. S. Stanims and W. York .
Pathogenic [ May 3r ( 1 ) An hypertrophy of the thyroid gland of goats can be induced by infecting the water supply with the faeces of sufferers from goitre .
It is at present impossible to state whether this hypertrophy is due to the action of the infecting agent of goitre , or only to the organic impurity of the water thus contaminated .
( 2 ) Earthworms do not appear to be concerned in the spread of goitre .
( 3 ) The microscopical appearances described are the earliest stages in the formation of parenchymatous goitre .
The microphotographs ( Plate 1* ) illustrate the appearances seen under a magnification of 100 diameters .
Fig. 1 shows the normal appearance of the thyroid gland of a goat .
Fig. 2 shows the artificially produced parenchymatous goitre .
The Pathogenic Agent in a Case of Human Trypanosomiasis Nyasaland .
By Hugh S. Stannus and Warrington Yorke .
( Communicated by Major B. Boss , F.B.S. Beceived May 3 , \#151 ; Bead June 1 , 1911 .
) [ Plate 2 .
] Up to the time of writing , nearly 40 cases of trypanosomiasis have been discovered in Nyasaland , whereas Glossina palpalis , notwithstanding much careful searching , has not , as yet , been found in the Protectorate .
In view of this fact and also of the observation that the trypanosome derived from a case of Sleeping Sickness contracted in North-East Bhodesia has been shown to present certain peculiarities both morphological* and also regarding its pathogenicity !
in experimental animals , it appeared to us desirable to-examine in some detail the parasite derived from a case of human trypanosomiasis infected in Nyasaland .
The trypanosome to which this paper refers was obtained from the blood of Mr. B. , Case 12 in the Nyasaland Sleeping Sickness Diary .
The following is a short summary of the history of this case:\#151 ; Patient * Stephens and Fantham , " On the Peculiar Morphology of a Trypanosome from a Case of Sleeping Sickness and the Possibility of its being a New Species ( T. ) , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 83 , p. 28 .
t York , W. , " On the Pathogenicity of a Trypanosome from a Case of Sleeping : Sickness Contracted in Rhodesia , " * Annals of Tropical Medicine , ' 1910 , vol. 4 .

