368 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On Subjective Colour Phenomena Note added December 18 .
In addition to the arrangements above described for determining the capacity of the small condenser , we have also employed the well-known method of charging and discharging the small condenser through a galvanometer by means of a contact-maker driven at a speed of sixty contacts per second by an electrically controlled tuning-fork .
By this means a steady deflection of the galvanometer is obtained due to the passage of the rapidly recurring discharges through it .
Preliminary observations with this apparatus have confirmed the above-given value for the dielectric constant of liquid oxygen , and by a modification of it we hope shortly to make a very careful re-determination of the constant .
" On Subjective 'Colour Phenomena attending sudden Changes of Illumination .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received December 10 , \#151 ; Read December 17 , 1896 .
The investigation which forms the subject of this paper originated in an attempt to account satisfactorily for the colour phenomena exhibited by Mr. C. E. Benham 's " Artificial Spectrum Top/ ' which , when it was brought before the public , about two years ago , excited considerable interest .
The top consists of a disk of cardboard about 4\#163 ; in .
( 108 cm .
) in diameter , mounted upon a spindle .
One half of the disk is painted black ; upon the white ground of the other half are drawn four successive groups of three black lines , having the form of concentric arcs of 45 ' , which are at different distances from the centre , as shown in the annexed figure ; the thickness of the lines is about in .
( 1 mm. ) .
When the disk rotates , each group of black lines generally appears to assume a different colour .
The nature of the colours thus developed depends upon the speed of the rotation , and upon the quality and intensity of the illumination .
After several trials , I found that no better results , on the whole , could be obtained than when the disk was illuminated by a 16-candle power incandescent lamp , with a ground glass bulb , at a distance of about 6 in .
( 15 cm .
) , and was caused to turn about five times in a second .
These , therefore , were adopted as the standard conditions for my experiments , the disk being mounted upon a horizontal axis , driven by an electro-motor , and the speed regulated by comparison with the ticks of an ordinary watch .
When the disk rotates under the specified conditions and in the direction indicated by the arrow in the figure , the inner group of attending sudden Changes of Illumination .
Benliam 's Top .
lines appears , to my vision , to become bright red , the next group pinkish-brown , the next a dilute olive-green , and the outer group dark blue .
If the direction of rotation is reversed , the order of the colours is also reversed .
By far the most striking of these several hues is the first named ; hardly any one has the slightest hesitation in pronouncing it to be bright red .
As to the blue , there is very rarely any difference of opinion , though it has sometimes been called bluish-green .
The hues of the two intermediate groups are much more undecided and difficult to specify , especially when they are seen separately .
The only serious attempts that I know ' of to explain the origin of the colours shown by the top are those of Professor Living and of Captain Abney.* Professor Liveing 's explanation is based upon the two hypotheses that the eye perceives certain of the coloured constituents of white light more quickly than others , red being the first to show itself , and that the duration of the impressions due to the different constituents also differs , blue being the last to disappear .
Captain Abney thinks that the results would be sufficiently accounted for if the order of persistence of the three colour sensations were violet , green , and red .
Several objections might be urged against these explanations , but the adequacy of either of them seems to be conclusively negatived by * ' Nature , ' vol. 51 , pp. 1G7 , 292 .
370 Mr. S. Bid well .
On Subjective Colour Phenomena the fact that if the thickness of the lines on the disk is much greater than 1 mm. , or , more accurately , if it subtends at the eye a greater angle than about one-fifth of a degree , the red and some of the other colours appear only upon the borders of the lines , their inner portions remaining black or grey .
The true solution , at least as regards the red and the blue , is , I think , to be looked for in certain phenomena attending sudden changes of illumination , which , so far as I have been able to ascertain , have not hitherto been observed .
The following are a few out of a large number of experiments that have been made during the last four months .
They are described , as far as possible , in logical and not in chronological order .
Persons unaccustomed to visual observations will not easily perceive some of the effects mentioned .
Experiment I. A circular aperture in .
( l-3 cm .
) in diameter was made in a sheet of blackened zinc and was covered with thin white writing paper .
Diametrically across the aperture a strip of tinfoil Ax in .
( 1 mm. ) wide was attached to the paper .
The aperture was closed by a shutter , which could be very rapidly opened by means of a strong spring .
The sheet of metal was placed over a window in one side of alight-tight box , inside which at a distance of 1 ft. ( 30 cm .
) from the aperture was an incandescent lamp of 8-candle power with a ground glass bulb .
The observations were made at a distance of about 1 ft. from the box , the room being in darkness .
When the shutter was suddenly opened , several curious phenomena appeared simultaneously .
The period of their duration was difficult to estimate ; it was probably more than one-twentieth of a second and less than one-tenth .
( 1 ) Immediately after it was revealed , the small luminous disk-first increased in size with extreme rapidity , and afterwards became somewhat smaller , being in its final condition still larger than at the moment of exposure .
This effect was more easily seen when the tin-foil strip was looked at ; it seemed to become at first much thinner , then thicker again .
( 2 ) At the moment when the disk was uncovered , a luminous halo , like a broad ring , appeared to start from its margin and spread outwards through a distance of more than an inch ( 2'5 cm .
) in every direction ; then it rapidly contracted and disappeared .
The halo was blue or blue-violet in colour , and seemed more sharply defined upon its inner than upon its outer border .
( 3 ) Contemporaneously with the existence of the halo , the disk was surrounded by a bright red corona , which , like the halo , expanded outwards , and then contracted .
There was not , however , attending sudden Changes *\gt ; 71 at any stage a dark interval between the corona and the disk ; more probably the inner edge of the corona was slightly within the apparent permanent boundary of the disk .
The red corona was very narrow ; its greatest width appeared to be rather less than 1 mm. , or about one-fifth of a degree .
The effect was best seen when the attention was directed upon the tinfoil strip , which for a moment , after the exposure , became bright red , the coronae , or red borders , of the adjoining semi-disks meeting or perhaps overlapping one another .
The apparent temporary excess of the area of the disk above its final area , as mentioned in ( 1 ) , was probably due to the evanescent red border.* ' It is remarkable that repeated experiments had been made with this and similar apparatus for several weeks before the existence of the red border was detected , even though something of the kind was looked for .
The difficulty is , not to see it , but to know that one sees it ; when once it has been perceived it becomes very conspicuous .
The phenomenon is beyond doubt constantly met with , and habitually ignored , in daily life .
Since my first observation of it I have many"times noticed flashes of red upon the black letters of a book or upon the edges of the page ; bright metallic or polished objects often show it when they pass across the field of vision in consequence of a movement of the eyes , and it was an accidental observation of this kind that suggested the following experiment .
Experiment II .
( 1 ) The zinc plate of the last experiment was taken from the box , and the aperture in the plate was covered with thin paper .
A ground glass lamp of 8-candle power , attached to a flexible cord , was put behind it , and the whole was moved rather quickly either backwards and forwards or round and round in a small circle at a distance of a foot or so from the eyes .
The edges of the straight or circular streak of light thus formed were bordered with red .
( 2 ) A 16-candle power lamp was substituted for the other .
The red border then appeared to have a greenish-blue band inside it , slightly encroaching upon the streak of light ; probably , however , it was only the apparent or irradiation boundary that was thus affected , not the true geometrical boundary .
( 3 ) The paper was removed , and the 8-candle power ground-glass lamp was again placed behind the aperture .
The red could now no longer be seen , but the greenish-bine border remained .
( 4 ) When the 16-candle power lamp was used in the same way * The effect may be seen without the use of the spring shutter , if a black screen be held before the eyes and suddenly removed , but it is more difficult to hit upon the exact position of the disk .
372 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On Subjective Colour Phenomena without any intervening paper , no coloured border could be seen , owing , as it seemed , to the glare .
Experiment The aperture in the metal plate was again covered with white paper , having a strip of tinfoil across it , and the plate was fixed before the window in the box , as in Experiment I ; a 16-candle power lamp was placed immediately behind it .
When the lamp was switched on , the red border was distinctly seen to be backed with greenish-blue , the red itself being much less evident than when the lamp Avas 18 in .
( 45 cm .
) behind the aperture .
I have hitherto failed to detect any greenish-blue near the border when the disk was suddenly illuminated by the shutter method of Experiment I , instead of by switching on the lamp.* Experiment IV .
The object of this experiment was to ascertain whether the red border could be produced by the sudden accession of light which contained no red constituent .
Ten different coloured glasses were successively interposed between the lamp and the aperture with the shutter .
In every case Avhen the spectroscope showed that the glass transmitted red light , the tinfoil strip became red , but never otherwise .
For example , it reddened Avith a dark blue cobalt glass , but not with a blue glass Avhich transmitted much more light , but intercepted the red end of the spectrum .
Experiment V. The momentary redness around the edge of the suddenly illuminated disk and along the tinfoil strip , as described in the account of the previous experiments , can only be seen by a practised observer .
By a different method , hoAvever , it can be made quite evident to almost any person w'hose vision is normal .
The paper-covered aperture in the box was arranged as before , but the shutter was not used .
An incandescent lamp was placed inside the box , and a second lamp outside , at a distance of a few inches from the aperture , the observer 's eyes being shaded from it by a screen .
The tinfoil strip was on the interior side of the paper , and nothing was seen of it from outside , except when the lamp in the box w'as alight .
A rotating commutator was constructed , by means of which * [ Since this was written , I have found that the greenish-blue may be shown by the shutter method without difficulty if the distance of the lamp from the aperture is suitably adjusted.\#151 ; Dec. 19 .
] attending sudden Changes of Illumination .
373 current could be supplied to the two electric lamps in the followingmanner :___During half a turn of the commutator , no current to either lamp ; during the succeeding one-sixth of a turn , current to the interior lamp -only ; during the remaining one-third of a complete turn , current to the exterior lamp only .
Starting with darkness , and turning the commutator quickly through 180 ' , the observer saw , as soon as the interior lamp was lighted , the shadow of the tinfoil , which was , as usual at the initial stage , of a bright red hue ; but a small fraction of a second later , before it had time to lose its redness and become black , the image was obliterated by a flood of light from the exterior lamp , while at the same moment the other lamp was extinguished .
When the commutator was caused to make four or five turns per second , the image of the tinfoil was almost continuous , and was at once recognised by inexperienced observers to be red.* This experiment was repeated in another form , the arrangement being such that the light of two lamps was interrupted by screening , instead of by breaking the current ; the changes in the illumination could thus be made more rapidly .
Two black cardboard disks , from each of which a sector of 60 ' had been cut out , were mounted 3| in .
( 9 cm .
) apart at the ends of a horizontal axle , being so fixed that the posterior edge of the opening-in one of the disks was exactly opposite to the anterior edge of that in the other .
Between the disks , and in a parallel plane , was suspended a sheet of wflnte paper , across the middle of w'hich a narrow strip of tinfoil was gummed .
Two clear glass electric lamps were placed near the outer faces of the disks at the same height as the axis , the incandescent filaments being directed horizontally .
To an observer looking at the plain side of the paper across the edge of one of the disks , while they were rotating slowly in the proper direction , the paper first appeared dark all over , then it was illuminated from behind by one of the lamps , the dark strip becoming visible ; finally , it was illuminated from the front by the other lamp , and the strip could no longer be seen .
When the angular velocity was sufficiently increased , the strip was seen continuously , or nearly so , and its colour was , as before , bright red .
Experiment VI .
From a disk of white cardboard 6 in .
( 15 cm .
) in diameter a sector of 60 ' was cut out ; the remainder of the disk was divided into two * The lamps used in this experiment were made to my order .
They are of 8-candle power and have very thin filaments , the efficiency being 2*5 watts per e.p. They were worked at a pressure of 6 per cent , above their marked voltage , and the incandescence responded very quickly to the current .
374 Mr. S. Bid well .
On Subjective Colour Phenomena equal parts by a straight line from the centre to the circumference , and one of these parts was painted black .
The disk was attached to a horizontal spindle , turned by a motor at the rate of five or six revolutions per second , while its front was illuminated by a lamp of 16-candle power .
A white card , upon which was a black line , or a design composed of black lines , was supported behind the disk , and viewed intermittently through the open sector .
When the rotation was such that the open sector succeeded the black portion of the disk and was succeeded by the white portion , the black lines became red .
This experiment is identical with the last , except that the white ground is illuminated entirely by reflected light .
In conjunction with the others , it indicates with certainty the origin of the remarkable red colour shown by Benham 's top .
The disk with the open sector affords a much more convenient means than the top of exhibiting the colour phenomena .
If a disk with an open sectpr of 45 ' or 60 ' is made of white cardboard , and a movable black half disk is mounted in front of it upon the same axis , we may , by suitably adjusting the position of the black half disk with regard to the opening , produce in a fixed object all the tints shown by the top , as well as intermediate ones ; and the object itself may be easily changed to suit the conditions of an experiment .
Experiment VII .
If the commutator of Experiment V , or the disk with the open sector of Experiment YI , be turned in the reverse direction , the strips of tinfoil or the black lines appear to become blue ( instead of red ) , like the outer group of lines in Benham 's top when it spins in the direction indicated by the arrow in the figure .
This appearance is partly , if not altogether , illusory .
It is the bright ground in the immediate neighbourhood of the black lines that becomes blue ; the lines themselves ( except possibly just within their extreme edges ) become a neutral grey , owing to the alternations of light and darkness or of white and black .
A card with some black lines 1 mm. thick drawn upon it was placed behind the disk with the open sector of Experiment YI , which was turned in the direction such that the ' open sector was preceded by white and followed by black .
The lines presented the appearance of having been drawn with blue ink upon imperfectly sized paper , a blue stain having apparently spread for a short distance on both sides of the lines .
Lines of gradually increased thickness were successively employed until at last they had the form of bands -f-in .
wide ; and even in this latter case it was not easy to see that the bands themselves did not become blue , but only their outlying borders .
attending sudden Changes of Illumination .
When , however , a visiting card which had been blackened over its whole surface was placed behind the rotating disk , it merely turned a lighter black , or rather grey , in which it was impossible to imagine the slightest tinge of blue .
A small piece of white paper which was subsequently attached to the middle of the card became blue around its edges when the disk was turned , but the blue did not encroach at all ( or if at all , only to a very small extent ) upon the black ground .
When these observations have been made it becomes possible to recognise that the apparently blue lines in the top are themselves really grey , and only bordered externally with blue .
Experiment VIII .
The natural conclusion from the observations described above is that if a black disk were suddenly formed upon a bright ground , the disk would for a moment appear to be surrounded by a blue border .
I was not successful in devising a satisfactory arrangement for suddenly creating a black disk , but the effect is sufficiently shown in the following manner .
An aperture lj in .
( 3 cm .
) in diameter was cut in one side of a wooden box and was covered with white paper ; one half of the aperture could be suddenly covered by a sliding metal shutter which was actuated by a spring : a lamp was placed inside the box .
When the shutter was operated , a blue band 1 or 2 mm. wide appeared on the bright ground just beyond and adjoining the edge of the shutter when at rest .
Its duration was thought to be slightly longer than that of the red border of other experiments , and it appeai'ently disappeared by retreating into the black edge of the shutter .
When the shatter was moved by hand across the field at a slower speed , its edge was seen to be preceded by a thin blue border , which , when the shutter reached its limiting stop , appeared to reverse the direction of its motion and return into the shutter .
The blue border is much less conspicuous and more difficult of observation than the red one .
In order to see it plainly careful adjustment of the light is necessary .
An examination of the effect through coloured glasses was attended by uncertain results .
Remarks on the Experiments .
The phenomenon which in the account of Experiment I has been spoken of as a blue halo may be due either to a momentary sympathetic excitement of the nerve fibres of the retina in the neighbourhood of those directly acted upon by the light , or , as I think , less probably , to light scattered by the imperfectly transparent media of the eye .
In the latter case its rapid disappearance might be accounted for VOL. lx .
2 F 376 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On Subjective Colour Phenomena partly by the diminished sensibility of the retina after the first moment and partly by the contraction of the iris .
The dark interior of the halo , which begins to appear soon after its formation , is probably connected with a class of visual sensations which have been specially studied by M. Aug. Charpentier.* The sensation of luminosity is followed very shortly after its first excitment by a brief , dark reaction , and it is perhaps the momentary revival of the luminosity after this reaction that gives the halo the appearance of retreating into the bright disk .
But whatever the cause of the .halo , there can hardly be any doubt that the corona or narrow red border is due to sympathetic excitation .
When the red nerve-fibres of the Young-Helmholtz theory are affected by light the intensity of which does not exceed a certain limit , the immediately surrounding red nerve-fibres are for a short period sympathetically affected , while the violet and green are not so , or in a much less degree .
It must be confessed that it is more difficult to offer a reasonably simple explanation of what happens when the intensity of the light exceeds the limit above indicated , and the band of greenish-blue consequently appears in addition to , or in place of , the red border .
It is , perhaps , preferable to refrain at present from any speculation on the subject .
When a Benham 's top is spun in bright daylight or weak sunshine , it is quite possible to distinguish both the red and the greenish-blue at the same time , the latter encroaching somewhat upon the white ground ; its persistence is greater than that of the red , as can easily be seen when the top is turning rather slowly .
The greenish-blue appears to be of the hue that is complementary to red , and it is evidently the development of this colour that makes the red so much less conspicuous when the top is illuminated by daylight than when artificial light is employed .
The obvious method of accounting for the formation of the blue border around a patch in a bright field from which light has suddenly been cut off , is to suppose a brief sympathetic reaction in the nerve-fibres adjacent to those from which the exciting stimulus has been withdrawn , this reaction being more marked in the red fibres than in the green and violet , or perhaps occurring in the red fibres only , at least when the light is of the usual intensity .
If the red fibres just outside the darkened patch ceased for a moment to respond to the luminous stimulus , in sympathy with those inside the patch , the appearance of a blue border would be produced .
In sunlight I have sometimes found that the lines in Benham 's top which ordinarily appear blue , assumed a reddish colour ; under # ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 113 ( 1891 ) , p. 147 .
Effect of Pressure on Temperature of Crater Arc. 377 strong illumination therefore the sympathetic dark reaction would seem to be least in the case of the red fibres .
Subjective colours of the same class as those shown by Benham 's top , but not nearly so conspicuous , have long been known .
Helmholtz* mentions that if a rotating disk with black and white sectors is looked at fixedly , each white sector appears to be reddish along its leading border and bluish along its rear border .
He also remarks that these colours are more easily seen upon a disk covered with two spiral bands , black and white , of equal breadth .
From these and other observations , Helmholtz concludes that when a point of the retina is exposed to rapid alternations of white light and of darkness , causing successive states of increasing and decreasing excitation , the moment of maximum excitation is not the same for all colours .
It has , however , been shown above that in analogous cases the red originates in a portion of the retina which has not been exposed to the direct action of light , while the blue originates in a portion \#166 ; where light has not ceased to act .
Helmholtz 's supposition therefore does not apply\#151 ; at least to the class of colours at present under consideration .
I have not made any attempt to account for the more feeble colours exhibited by the two intermediate groups of lines in Benham 's top , nor for the changes which occur when the speed of rotation is increased .
These effects no doubt result , at least in part , from modifications of the phenomena already discussed .
But for the present I am compelled to discontinue the experiments on account of the disagreeable and probably injurious effects which they produce upon the eyes .
" On the Effect of Pressure in the Surrounding Gas on the Temperature of the Crater of an Electric Arc. Correction of Results in former Paper .
" By W. E. Wilson , F.R.S. , and G. F. Fitzgerald , F.R.S. Received November 30 , \#151 ; Read December 17 , 1896 .
In May , 1895 , a preliminary paper by one of the authors was read at the Royal Society , in which is described the apparatus used for these experiments , and the results which were then obtained .
The primary object of this research was to determine , if possible , whether the temperature of the crater in the positive carbon varies when the pressure in the surrounding gas is changed .
It has been suggested that the temperature of the crater is that of * ' Phys. Optik , ' S 23 .
VOL. LX .
2 G

