]\gt ; Method of and Resistance by the Help of Two-phase By ALBECRT by R. T. zebrook , F.R.S. Received September 22 , \mdash ; Read November 5 , 1908 .
) ( From the National Physical ) ( 1 ) Introd2 A standard mutual inductance , after the design recently described by the writer , now been constructed at the National Physical Laboratol.y .
As the details of its construction will be published later , it is sufficient here to mention that its value calculated from the dimensions is millihenries .
It forms an extremely accurate standard , against which both mutual and self inductances can be readily tested .
In addition to this , it a means of values of resistance coils in absolute measure , and thus evaluating the ohm .
can be done in an indirect way by finding the capacity of a condenser in terms of resistance and time by Maxwell 's Conlmutator Method , in terms of esistance and mutual inductance by Heydweiller 's modification of rey 's method .
The comparison of resistance with mutual inductanee can , however , bc made nply and directly by the use of two-phase euls in the method which I proceed to descl.ibe .
1 shall first take the ideal simple case , nd afterwards notice some of the difficulties that may arise in practice .
( 2 ) of the Mcthod .
lu let be the mutual inductance ( a small fraction of it being Ijubtable ) and the esistance ; and let A and pt be currents in quadrntule , from a two-phase lternator device .
Let a vibraCion gel ' to frequency ) .
When the alvanometer shows no deflection , the electromotive introduced into its circuit is zero every instant , and hence so that 1 ) 'lioy .
) .
, lJOi .
' On This condition gives a direct comparison between and , when and are known .
By observing the speed of the alternator , is found ; while the ratio of A to is obtained by means of the electrostatic voltmeter , which is put alternately across the equal resistances and , or by a differential electrodynamometer .
In practice A is made very nearly equal to B. FIG. I. The condition of balance is arrived at by , or ' until galvanometer deflection becomes zero , accurate quadrature by adjusting the self inductance .
For , if millihenries and ohms , the necessary frequency is about 80 cycles per second .
The chief difficulties at first sight would be in obtaining alternating current of absolutely pure sine wave-form ; but the necessity for this is obviated by the use of the tuned to resonance with the fundamental in the wave-form , and thus ignoring the harmonics in comparison with the fundamentals AI and .
This is found to be the case experimentally , for a sharply defined balance was obtained when a suitable alternator was used ; and the mathematical estigation of the more case substantiated this result .
If necessnry , the harmonics 1 be still further obliterated electrical tuning with inductance and capacity in the alvanometer circuit .
The effects of a small amount of self inductance in the resistance and of distributed capacity in the secondary coil have been theoretically investigated ; it has been found that the former is practically negligible , and that , if the latter is not quite negligible , the proper correction can easily be found .
( 3 ) A few preliminary xpcrinlents 1 been made to test the working of .
The easurement of made with a scale electro .
talic voltuleter which yave about 2 mm. for a difference of 1 in 10,000 her could no obtained by an electro .
dynamometer two anlic ) llloving coils ; this would allow , made .
Errors would ) by int , two circuits of the instrument mean esult .
In the inlents already lllade , the fiequeney was steady at a ] ) telv correct , and varied the addition small accurately calibl.ated variable mutual inductance with a range two or three thousandths of M. The results obtained have ) encouraging appear to indicate thal the is fiusceptible of ) accuracy .
It ma be of interest tc deterlnination obtained with an inductor alternator ol Jlely i. wave-form errors only 3 per cent. ; while with a .
he frcm the nominal values was within the li mits of } tal error , which were of the order ol 1 in 1000 .
This last is only the result of preliminary trial ; in ) ultimate experiments ) a ]theh ) order .

