Professor Stromeyer , Foreign Memb. R.S. , presented two speci ?
mens , one of the coarse-grained , the other of the fine-grained variety , of the remarkable mass of iron lately discovered near Magdeburg , and an account of which had been laid before the Royal Society of Gottingen on the 14th of last month .
This iron was found , in several de ?
tached lumps , about four feet below the mould , by Mr. Kote , who considered himself the more authorized to pronounce it meteoric , as , in the chronicles of Magdeburg , the descent of a fiery meteor is recorded as having happened in the year 998 .
Professor Stromeyer has subjected this iron to a minute analysis , the results of which are very interesting , inasmuch as , besides the alloy of nickel and cobalt , usually present in meteoric iron , he unexpectedly found a considerable portion of molybdenum , ?
a rare metal on our planet , occurring only in two combinations , viz. with sulphur , as glance molybdenum , and , as molybdic acid combined with oxide of lead , in the yellow lead ore of Carinthia and a few other places .
The following are the external characters of the six masses dug up , the largest of which was about fifty-seven pounds in weight ; the others were considerably smaller .
Their shape is more or less oval and flat , with surfaces rather oxidated , and here and there covered with an earthy crust .
The larger lumps did not exhibit any trace of scoriae ; but in some of the smaller pieces , part of the metallic mass had passed into a porous slag-like body ; of which latter a few de ?
tached pieces were likewise found .
This iron possesses no degree of ductility ; it is not attacked by the saw , and but slightly and with difficulty by the file .
Its tenacity , however , is considerable ; the masses required great strength to be broken ; but small fragments did not oppose greater difficulty to be reduced to a coarse powder than white cast-iron ; and glass was but slightly scratched by them .
On the fresh fracture , this iron exhibits upon the whole a scaly-granular structure ; its internal lustre is moderately vivid , and its colour tin-white , with a strong east of grey .
Two varieties of texture were , however , observable ; in some fragments it was more distinctly scaly , of a coarser grain and a deeper grey colour , united to a greater de ?
gree of tenacity .
The specific gravity of the coarse-grained variety ( barom .
0in758 , therm. 21 ?
*5 c. ) = 7*2182 ; that of the fine-grained = 7'3894 .
The mass contained much of a sulphuret not unlike in appearance to variegated copper ore , from which the subsequent analysis proved it not to differ in composition , except that a trace of sulphuret of silver was found in it .
Also minute portions of capillary native copper were found in the interior of some pieces , together with here and there some translucid , pale yellow , olivine-like grains , but in too small quantities to admit of chemical examination .
Professor Stromeyer proceeds to give a detailed account of the chemical analysis to which this iron was subjected by him ; according to which 100 parts are composed of ?
a. Coarse-grained b. Finc-grained variety .
variety .
Iron .
7677 74*60 xMolybdenum ... 9*97 10*10 Copper ... .
3*40 4*32 Cobalt .
3*25 3*07 Nickel .
1*15 1-28 Manganese ... 002 0-01 Arsenic ... .
1*40 2*47 Silicium ... .
035 039 Phosphorus ... 1*25 2-27 Sulphur ... .
2-06 0*92 Carbon ... .
0*38 0*48 10000 100*00 From this it appears , that though the Magdeburg iron contains all the ingredients characteristic of meteoric iron , it is essentially distinct from all others hitherto examined , by the presence of molybdenum and arsenic ; by the smaller and rather anomalous proportion of nickel and cobalt which enters into its composition ; by the admixture of some capillary copper and of variegated copper ore , instead of the magnetic pyrites found in some meteoric iron ; and , lastly , by the presence , though only a trace , of sulphuret of silver .
Professor Stromeyer then enters into an examination of the circum ?
stances which appear opposed to the opinion which assigns a meteoric origin to this iron , and of the objections against its being the product of artificial fusion ; among which , one of the greatest is its considerable alloy of molybdenum , ?
a metal which has hitherto not been observed either in ores of iron and copper , or in any slags or other products of smelting furnaces .
But Dr. Stromeyer has since obtained , from the Hartz Mountains , a similar and equally problematical mass of iron , the analysis of which has furnished nearly the same results as that of the Magdeburg iron , except that it contained no variegated copper ore .
Future observations will probably throw more light upon the nature of these enigmatical metallic bodies ; at all events , the discovery of mo ?
lybdenum in them is so far of great interest , as , in case they should ultimately prove to be artificial products , it is fair to conjecture that that scarce metal must enter into combinations still unknown to the chemical mineralogist , or occur in some ores in a masked state and such small proportions as to become ( like titanium ) apparent only in the products of the long-continued operations of the smelting furnace .
The following papers were read : ?

