334 On the Weight of Hydrogen desiccated by Liquid Air .
" On the Weight of Hydrogen desiccated by Liquid Air .
" By Lord Bayleigh , F.B.S. Eeceived February 22 , _____________Bead April 5 , 1900 .
In recent experiments by myself and by others upon the density of hydrogen , the gas has always been dried by means of phosphoric anhydride ; and a doubt may remain whether on the one hand the removal of aqueous vapour is sufficiently complete , and on the other whether some new impurity may not be introduced .
I thought that it would be interesting to weigh hydrogen dried in an entirely different manner , and this I have recently been able to effect with the aid of liquid air , acting as a cooling agent , supplied by the kindness of Professor Dewar from the Boyal Institution .
The operations of filling and weighing were carried out in the country as hitherto .
I ought , perhaps , to explain that the object was not so much to make a new determination of the highest possible accuracy , as to test whether any serious error could be involved in the use of phosphoric anhydride , such as might explain the departure of the ratio of densities of oxygen and hydrogen from that of 16 : 1 .
I may say at once that the result was negative .
Each supply consisted of about 6 litres of the liquid , contained in two large vacuum-jacketed vessels of Professor Dewar 's design , and it sufficed for two fillings with hydrogen at an interval of two days .
The intermediate day was devoted to a weighing of the globe empty .
There were four fillings in all , but one proved to be abortive owing to a discrepancy in the weights when the globe was empty , before and after the filling .
The gas was exposed to the action of the liquid air during its passage in a slow stream of about half a litre per hour through a tube of thin glass .
I have said that the result was negative .
In point of fact the actual weights found were -fof ' to milligrams heavier than in the case of hydrogen dried by phosphoric anhydride .
But I doubt whether the small excess is of any significance .
It seems improbable that it could have been due to residual vapour , and it is perhaps not outside the error of experiment , considering that the apparatus was not in the best condition .

