Some Considerations Concerning the Parenchymous parts of the Body .
These were communicated by the Inquisitive Mr. Edmund King at the Instance of the Publisher , as follows ; The Parenchymous parts of the Body , are by Anatomists generally supposed to be in very many places wholly void of Vessels ; designed chiefly to fill up Cavities and Interstices between the Vessels , and to bolster up the same , and to convey them through the parts .
But having many years endeavonred to excarnate several parts of the Body , viz. the Liver , Lungs , Spleen , Kidneys &amp; c. ( not to name the Placentallteri , which seems to be Parenchymous too ; ) and being very desirous to make a Scheme of the Vessels of any of these , what ever they were , I fixed upon ; I found , notwithstanding all my care to preserve the Vessels , when I was freeing them , as heedfully as I could , from the supposed Parenchyma , that in every breach , I made , either with my fingers or otherwise , all my endeavours were destructive to my purpose ; and ~ , upon examination of those bits , much of which is called Parenchyma , I met in them more Vessels , than I had preserved in the parts whence they came : And though the Portion were never so small , yet my bare eye could make this discovery ; much more could I , when assisted by a Microscope , perceive , I had destroyed more Vessels , than preserved , in despite of the exactest care , I was capable to use .
And being not a little concerned , that I should undertake to preserve the Vessels by such a Cause , as I saw plainly to be their destruction ( were the part never so big , or never so small ) I was both confounded and tired .
For I saw ( and so must any , that will attempt this work ) in my endeavouring to preserve one Vessel of a traceable magnitude , I spoiled an infinite number of others less discernable , which were as truly Vessels , as the other , differing only in size and figure ( as to appearance .
) Then reviewing what mischief I had done in every place , quite through the whole Tract of my Fingers , Knife , &amp;c. I began to think with my self , That it was not impossible for these parts to consilt wholly of Vessels curiously wrought and interwoven ( probably for more Uses , than is yet known ; ) And the consideration , tion , which came into my mind , of a piece of fine Cloth ( which consists of so many several minute Hairs , called Wool ) was no discouragement to this opinion .
Yet I durst not be so presumptuous as to indulge my self too much in it ; much less to venter presently to speak of a thing , which seemed to contradict so many Learned Men 's belief .
But being restless , till I might receive more satisfaction in the thing , I iterated experiments over and over ; some of which proved so successful to my apprehension , that I was encouraged in the years 1663 .
and 1664 .
to discourse of it to several very worthy Persons , as Mr. Boyle , Sir William Petty , Dr. Williams , Dr. Lenthal , Dr. Jaspar Needham , Dr. Samson , ( who afterwards sent me a Letter from France , intimating the acquaintance , he had made with the Learned Steno , who hath since published something of the same Discovery ) Mr. Daniel Cox , and Mr. Samuel Parker , &amp;c. who doubtless cannot but remember , that then I related to them , I found much cause to believe , that that substance , commonly called Parenchyma , was in most , if not in all its Parenchymous parts , full of Vessels ; however it had been imagined by all , I could ever meet with , to consist in great part of a substance , in many places void of Vessels , designed for such uses , as are above mentioned .
Against which I have now further to allege , I. That I observe in a piece of Musculous Flesh(so called )either raw , rosted , or boiled , &amp;c. that if I so far extend it , as to make it to be seen through , I can(assisting my Eye)perceive it full of Vessels , placed as thick as is possible to be imagined ( the fat if there be any , being first removed ) there appearing then nothing , but vessels , yet so as with a Microscope may be seen through , when they are extended .
2 .
That , if any one , as he is at dinner , take a piece of flesh , and begin either at the head or tail of a Muscle , he may divide it in insinitum , all along from head to tail , without breaking any thing of that , called Flesh , only these transverse Fibres , that seem to stitch them together , and ( as I am apt to think ) pass through the very Bodies of the smallest of them , and quite through the whole Muscle up the very Cutaneous porosities ; so that there is not one of these small ducts , that run per longitudinem , but'tis furnished with a sufficient number of outlets , when need requires , though too minute to suffer any alimentary juice to pass transversly ( in a living Body ) or any other liquor , when the Body is dead and cold .
But to wave their use at present , and to return to what I was saying , Compress between the fingers this bit of flesh , and you shall find the Juice , especially if the Meat be Hot , to go before your fingers toward either end you please ; but if you compress both ends , you shall see it swell into the middle ; and again , if you press the middle , it will run out at both ends .
But further , suppole a piece of flesh , called Parenchyma , as big , or as little as you please , in any part of the Body , and let me brick it with a Needle , where you shall appoint ; if you feel it , I presume you will acknowledge , a Nerve , or a Fibrilla , related to it , is touched if you feel it not , I am sure some liquor either sanguineous or other , will follow the Needle : And from whence can that come , but out of Vessels ?
unless accidentally , as by a Contusion , &amp;c. it be extravasated ; in which case my Argument will not be injured , because the part is depraved , whereas I speak of the parts , as they are in their natural State .
To confirm and illustrate all which , I desire , that the following familiar Observations may be considered : 1 .
If a Horse , fat and fair to look on , without a hollow to be seen between his Muscles , be rid extreme hard , and into a great sweat , and then kept one day without water or moist meat , you shall see him look so thin in many places , as in the musculous parts , that you will hardly believe it to be the same Horse , especially if he be ( as the phrase is among Horse-masters ) a Naso or Wash-Horse .
The cause of which thinness will easily be granted to be only an exhastion of Juice , expended out of the Blood , which did stuff out these Vessels .
And whoever , that is used to ride hard , shall observe , how thick this foul Horse breaths , and at what a rate he will reek and sweat , will not much wonder at the alteration .
But if the Horse be a hardy one , and used to be hard ridden , then you will see , that one days rest , and his belly full of good meat and drink , will in one day or two almost restore him to his former plight , the food being within that short space of time so distributed , that all the Vessels will be replenished again , as before .
And the cleaner the Horse is , the sooner recruited , and the less sign of hard riding will appear .
This seems to show the facility , with which the Juice , called Blood , passes ; Which surely , if there were such a thing as a Parenchyma , might by several accidents ( not difficult to mention ) be so depraved in several parts of it , that it might lose its receptive faculty ; than which it may be thought to have none of greater use , being supposed to be without Vessels .
2 .
Discoursing sometimes with Grasiers in the Country , about the Pasture of Cattle , I have been informed by them , that , if they buy any Old Beasts , Oxen , or Cows , to feed , they choose rather those that are as poor , as can be , so they be sound ; because that , if they are pretty well in flesh , what they then add to them by a good pasture , though it make them both look and sell well , yet it will not make them eat so well , their flesh proving bard and very tough : Which some may suppose to be the age of Parenchyma ; and so it is of that so called .
But if those Beasts be old and extremely poor , then they feed very kindly , and will be not only very fat , but spend well , like young ones , and eat very tender .
Of which I take the reason ( excluding a Parenchyma now ) to be this .
When an Ox or a Cow is grown old , and in an indifferent plight as to his flesh ( for so it is called ) all those Vessels having been kept at that size for the most part , have contracted a tenseness and fermness , and their fibers less extensive , not so fitted for the reception of more unctuous particles to relaxe them ; and that additional unctuous matter , which occasions fatness , is forced to seek new quarter , any where ( often remote from Muscles ) where it can be with least difficulty received ; sometimes to one place , sometimes to another , there , as may be seen in Shambles : Whereas , if there were such a thing as a Parenchyma , that certainly would , like a hungry Sponge , immediately swell up in several parts , ( which without much difficulty might be discovered in deffection ) and more eminently , where it should find the pores most patent : And in the dissection of such Muscles it would be very strange , not to find some , if not many , pieces of them in various shapes , to the great inconvenience of the parts , in which they are seated : Which yet I confess I could never find in any Muscle , unless it were where there had been a Contusion , or an Impostume , or the like .
But according to my opinion of the Parenchymous parts , the reason , why the Flesh of a very lean Ox or Cow , that hath got new Flesh in a good pasture , eats tenderer , seems to be this : That in a very lean Beast the Vessels desseined for admitting and distributing the nourishing Juice , are so near contracted , and lye so close together , that , when once they are relaxed , by the fresh and unctuous nourishment , they extend every way in all extensive parts , until in a short time the whole Creature is , as it were , created a new , having got new flesh upon old bones .
And the necessity of extreme extension makes all those parts , that are , as has been said , for the admission of nourishment , so thin and fine , that it will make the lean Beast , put into a rich pasture , eat young and tender : Whereas one of the same Age , that never was very poor , fed in the same pasture , shall eat hard and tough .
3 .
It has been observed , that Corpulent Persons in some Diseases , that seize on them , do fall away to wonder , not only in the Wast , but in the Arms , Legs , and Thighs ; and the very Calves of the Legs have been observed so slaccid and loose , that one might wrap the skin about the bones .
The reason whereof , according to the opinion delivered , may be easily rendred to be , A great Consumption of the Stock of Liquors , that in Health kept the Vessels turgid ; Which Vessels I suppose to make up those Muscles .
But when the Pores are obstructed , that the nourishment is hindred ( which then also uses to be but sparingly administred ) and sweats , either spontaneous , or forced , are large , there must needs be a great expense of those Liquors , the supply being but inconsiderable : which cannot but contract all these ducts of all sorts nearer together , and make them much less in themselves , meerly from Exhaustion : Or , if there should be no sweats , the internal Heat spends the spirits , and dries up the Liquors ; the consequence whereof may reasonably be presumed to be this Flaccidity of parts , and great and sudden Change , made in them ; not that there is need of any Parenchyma to fill up these Muscles , considering what hath been said .
Mean while , I humbly conceive , that if it be in any part of a Muscle , their Ingenuity , that plead for it , will put them upon some experiments , to bring it to Ocular Demonstration , either in a Living or Dead Muscle , any kind of flesh , raw , rosted , boiled , or in what they can best make it out .
And when I shall be convinced of an Errout in what I have discoursed , I shall beg pardon for gi .
ving the Occasion of the trouble of that Experiment , which shall prove a Parenchyma in any Muscle ; and think my time well spent in receiving a full satissaction of the ungroundedness of my opinion ; and readily submit to the Author , with a grateful acknowledgement of my Obligation to any one , that shall rectify me in my mistake , if it be one .

