3 .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the Arrangement of the Foliation and Cleavage of the Rocks of the North of Scotland .
" By Daniel Sharpe , Esq. , F.R.S. , V.P.G.S. Received November 20 , 1851 .
FebruaTr 19 , 1852 , WILLIAM SPENCE , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
The reading of Mr. Sharpe 's paper , " On the Arrangement of the Foliation and Cleavage of the Rocks of the North of Scotland , " was resumed and concluded .
The author applies the term , cleavage or lamination , to the divisional planes by which stratified rocks are split into parallel sheets , independently of the stratification ; foliation , to the division of crystalline rocks into layers of different mineral substances ; slate , to stratified rocks intersected by cleavage ; and schist , to foliated rocks only which exhibit no bedding independent of the foliation .
He considers that no distinct line can be drawn between gneiss and mica schist , chlorite schist , &amp;c. , which pass from one into the other by insensible gradations ; have the same geological relations , and foliation subject to the same laws .
He states that their boundaries have been laid down arbitrarily on the published maps of Scotland .
The quartz rock of Macculloch includes two formations ; the one , a quartzose variety of gneiss , included in this paper under that head ; the other , a stratified sandstone altered by plutonic action .
The author treats the foliation of gneiss and schist as a series of simple curves , obtained by observing the general direction , and disregarding the minor and more complicated folds .
The convolutions are usually greatest where the dip is slightest , but where the foliation is vertical or nearly so , it usually follows true planes without contortion ; thus the most correct observations are those taken where the foliation is vertical .
When the foliation of gneiss and schist is traced over extensive areas , and the minor convolutions disregarded , it is usually found to form arches of great length and many miles in diameter , bounded by vertical planes , between which the inclination increases with the distance from the axis .
Each arch is succeeded by a narrow space in which the dip is irregular , and beyond which another arch commences of a form similar to the first .
Portions of two adjoining arches seen without the rest form the fan-like structure observed by several geologists .
The arrangement of the foliation in arches corresponds with that of the cleavage of the true slates previously de .
scribed by the author , except in the greater convolution of the gneiss and schist .
Along the southern border of the Highlands a band of stratified clay slate rests on mica schist : at the junction , the foliation of the schist conforms to the cleavage of the slate , and the two together form an arch , but there is no connection between the stratification of the slate and the foliation ; moreover , the divisional planes cross from one rock to the other , without change of direction , being planes of foliation in the mica schist , and of cleavage in the slate : these facts confirm Mr. Darwin 's opinion , that cleavage and foliation are due to the same cause .
The author describes the parallel arches of foliation which cross the Highlands , illustrating his description by sections and a map on which they are laid down , and tracing in detail the vertical planes which bound the arches .
Commencing on the south , the first vertical plane runs about four miles within the Highland border , with a mean direction of about N. 55 ?
E. : it crosses more than once the junction of the clay slate and mica schist .
South of this plane the cleavage of the slate forms the beginning of an arch , which ends abruptly at the junction of the slate with the Old Red Sandstone .
To the north of this vertical plane four arches run across the Highlands : the most southern of these , with a diameter of ten or twelve miles , is formed partly of the cleavage of the slate , and partly of the foliation of the mica schist .
The hills on the south side of Loch Tay coincide with its central axis .
The vertical plane which forms its northern boundary crosses Ben Lawers , and has a mean direction of N. 50 ?
E. The next arch northward , consisting principally of gneiss , has a diameter varying from twenty-five to thirty miles ; its axis runs for some distance along the central ridge of the Grampians .
The granite of Cruachan and Ben Muich Dhui interfere with the regularity of the foliation of this district , and the lines are thrown to the north by the granite of Aberdeenshire : the line which bounds this arch on the north crosses the Spey near Laggan , and runs N. 40 ?
E. through Corbine into the Monagh Leagh mountains .
To the north of that line , the foliation of the gneiss forms an arch only ten miles wide , bounded on the north by a vertical plane running N. 35 ?
E. which crosses Coryaraick .
This plane forms the southern boundary of an arch , varying from fifteen to twenty-five miles wide , entirely of gneiss , bounded on the north by a band of vertical foliation which runs about N. 30 ?
E. from Glen Finnan through the middle of Rosshire and across Ben Nevis .
To the north-west of this band there is half an arch in the foliation , varying from twenty to thirty miles wide , which ends abruptly at a line to be drawn from Loch Eribol and Loch Maree , on the west of which the gneiss is unconformable to that hitherto described , but agrees with that of the Island of the Lewis , forming a series of arches which run about N.W. From the want of parallelism in the lines of foliation of the Highlands , they would all nearly converge between Lough Foil and Lough Swilly among the mica schists of the North of Ireland .
The most rugged and elevated hills are usually on or near the lines of vertical foliation ; the axes of the arches are generally found in high land , and the principal valleys occur between the central axes of the arches and their vertical boundaries .
Thus the main physical features of the Highlands are connected with the foliation of the gneiss and schists ; but the granites and porphyries which have broken through those rocks , and disturbed the regularity of the foliation , have also greatly modified the surface of the country .
The contortions of gneiss and schists being unaccompanied by fracture , must , the author considers , have been produced when the matter of those rocks was semi.fluid : in this state the mineral ingredients appear to have separated and re-arranged themselves in layers according to their affinities , while the whole was subjected to pressure acting along certain axes of elevation , which raised those layers into arches .

