152 List of Candidates recommended for Election .
May 4 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read , as follows:\#151 ; Barrett , Professor William .
Booth , Charles , D.Sc .
Bruce , David , Major R.A.M.C. Fenton , Henry John Horstman , M.A. Gamble , James Sykes , M.A. Hadclon , Professor Alfred Cort , M.A. Head , Henry , M.D. Hele-Shaw , Professor Henry Selby , M.Insli .
C.E. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; Morgan , Professor Conwy Lloyd , F.G.S. Reid , Clement , F.G.S. Starling , Ernest Henry , M.D. Tanner , Professor Henry William Lloyd , M.A. Threlfall , Richard , M.A. Tutton , Alfred E. , B.Sc. Windle , Professor Bertram Coghill Allen , M.D. I. " Photographic Researches on Phosphorescent Spectra .
" By Sir W. Crookes , F.R.S. II .
" On the Chemical Classification of the Stars .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. III .
" On the Presence of two Vermiform Nuclei in the Fertilised Embryo-sac of LiliumMar tag on .
" By Miss E. Sargant .
Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. IV .
" Onygenaequina ( Willd .
) : a Horn-destroying Fungus .
" By Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.R.S. V. " Impact with a Liquid Surface , studied by the aid of Instantaneous Photography .
Paper II .
" By Professor Worthington , F.R.S. , and R. C. Cole .
VI .
" The external Features in the Development of paradoxa ( Fitz .
) .
" By J. G. Kerr .
Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. VII .
" An Observation on Inheritance in Parthenogenesis .
" By Dr. E. Warren .
Communicated by Professor Weldon , F.R.S. Impact with a Liquid Surface .
153 YIII .
" The Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
" By A. E. Tutton , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Tilden , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 18 .
" Impact with a Liquid Surface , studied by the aid of Instantaneous Photography .
Paper II .
" By A. M. Worthington , M.A. , F.R.S. , and R. S. Cole , M.A. Received March 21 , \#151 ; Read May 4 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of a paper under a similar title , published in the 'Philosophical Transactions , ' A , vol. 189 , 1897 .
It was there shown that between the splash of a rough and that of a polished sphere falling the same distance into water , there is a remarkable difference from the first moment of contact .
The causes of this difference are now investigated .
The configuration of the water surface below the general level , when a rough sphere enters , is first studied by instantaneous photography , and the origin is traced of the bubble that follows in the wake of the sphere and of the emergent jet which follows its disappearance .
The depression or crater formed round the entering sphere is surprisingly deep .
This cavity segments , the lower part following as a bubble in the wake of the sphere , while the upper part fills up by the influx of surrounding water , which gathers velocity as it converges towards the axis of the disturbance , and so produces the upward spurt of the jet .
Experiments are described in which some idea of the actual displacements in the liquid has been obtained by letting the sphere descend between two vertical slowly ascending streams of minute bubbles liberated by electrolysis from two pointed electrodes .
It is found that with a gradual increase in the height of fall of a well-polished sphere , the splash changes in character , and that the sphere soon begins to take down air .
But the height at which this is first noticeable is largely dependent on minute differences in the condition of the surface , and even on its temperature .
It was further found that dropping a smooth sphere through a flame , under certain conditions , invariably alters entirely the course of the splash .
This action of the flame is proved to be no action of electrical discharge , and reasons are given for attributing it to the burning off of fine dust which has collected on the surface during the fall .
The influence of dust was proved by dusting one side only of a polished sphere , a proceeding which always results in completely changing the character of the splash on the dusted side .

