]\gt ; duces any rbance .
At first I thought the lens and glass slabs used by might p be the cause of his failure to get any result , because the ray the motidn travels through the glass obliquely , while along the motion it normally .
But a little consideration shows that both along and across the motion of the glass would be to increase the in a simply proportional manner the previous lag .
And calculation gives as the time of the journey , when a thickness of is interposed , sing FRESNEL'S theory ttIat the speed of the inside the is of what it is side , ' and corresponding expression with negative .
So wherefore the effect of inbrodncing glass is to increase the lag , but not quite so as by the equivalent of the extra distance thus virtually added , the second term the above expression being negative ; but the diminution is independent of except when fourth powers of aberration magnitude are attended to .
these , the effect of the glass is merely to cause , in addition to the lag naturally to expected , an extra term , independent of direction , of this value : MICHELSON'S lnterference xperiment in Different 62 .
Tndeed , the simplest plan would be to consider the effect of immersing the arrangement in a diffel medium .
It is merely to change the light velocity , and its mechanical velocity ?
' to the ethereal velocity inside it .
sequently becomes The aberration sJlgle changes to that DR. OLIVER ON ABERRATTON PROBLEMS .
79.3 the lag becomes ' times as great as before .
But although this is the case , the motion is not so great inside medium as it was in vacuo , for approximately , [ The conclusion here is that whatever may be the effect of a dense medium it is of , and therefore can have nothing to say to MICHELSON'S experimsnt , entirely depends ou a difference between what can be observed with and July , 1893 .
The of Reflexion and modified by It is necessary no to enter on the somewhat question as to the effect of upon the laws of reflexion and refraction .
FRESNEL by considering some cases satisfied himself that no discrepancy need be expected on his version undulatory theory ; and Sir GEORGE STOKES , examining the question in a more manner in 1846 , proved that , at least as far as the first order of minutiae , the were obeyed in spite of any relative motion between mirror and medium of source has obviously nothing to do with , unless it affects the shape of incident wave ) .
And the long continned use of artificial horizons by astronomers that there , has been no practical doubt on the subject , at least as far as reHexion concerned .
these statements do not by any means exhaust the subject ; the law of is not obeyed in a moving medium , and recently MICHELSON has to utilize bhe theoretic , al error ( which has never yet been practically as a fresh method of attacking the problem of the motion of the and the earth .
propose , therefore , to enter upon it , and I must confess that though the results easily stated , they have given me much trouble to be sure of , and I have found a many mare 's nests by the way .
reasoning for reflexion and refraction is much the same , and I attend more to reflexion because without itssuming FRESNEL'S theory as to the motion ether inside dense matter we have no guide to what shall happen in refraction : NDCCCXCIII .
, 51 and although the theory has been to a celtain extent , and with fairly high verified , yet it can hardly be yet said to have a secure rational basis .
In a drifting medium we must draw a clear distinction between waves and ray the laws obeyed by one need not be obeyed by the other , for they are inclined to other , and may become differently inclined after reflexion or refraction .
Now it is pretty plain that if motion is to have any effect upon these angles , the rays must be differently clined to.the direction of drift ; and on the hand , if motion is to affect the reflexion of waves , it must act during the of conbact of a wave with the reflecting surface ; so that if a wave comes down it will rebound as it comes , because its time of contact is then infinitesimal and finite motion could cause any disturbance .
But even in this case of normal the of reflexion need not be obeyed for rays , for they are not normaI to waves , and will be differently inclined to the direction of drift , unless indeed latter be either normal or tangential .
64 .
The following are statements which I will afterwards justify:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The planes of incidence and reflexion are always the same .
( 2 ) The ] of incidence and reflexion , as measured between rays and surface , general differ .
( 3 ) If the is stationary and medium moving , they differ by a depending principally on the square of aberration magnitude , i.e. , by one part hundred million , and a stationary telescope would be able to observe the effect , were delicate enough .
( 4 ) If the medium is stationary and mirror moving , the ] differ by a depending principally on the first power of aberration magnitude , i.e. , by one ten thousand , but a telescope with the mirror will not be able to observe large effect ; for the apparent ( or commonplace ) aberration caused by the motion of receiver will the odd powers and leave only the even powers of the so that the observed effect should be the same as in case 3 .
( 5 ) As regards the angles which the eflected and incident waves make with surface , i. e. , as to the obedience to the law of reflexion shown by waves instead of rays , in case 3 the angles differ by an amount depending on the first order aberration , but in case 4 they only by square of this quantity .
( 6 ) At grazing incidence the ordinary laws are accurately obeyed by the observed , and at normal incidence the error is a maximum .
( 7 ) The ordinary laws are obeyed whenever the direction of motion is tangential normal to the mirror .
( 8 ) In general the shape of the incident waves is not preserved reflexion , so that , when spherical waves impinge on a mirror in a moving the reflected waves from a plane mirror diverge from a sort of caustic instead a point , and the position of the image varies ( but almost infinitesimally ) position of the observer .
In other words , such a mirror acts to a parallel DR. OLIVER LODGE ON PROBLEMS .
tilted , to a divergent beam as if slightly curved .
But either , as observin the result , is almost hopelessly small .
Similar statements are true for refraction .
65 .
In considering a plane mirror in a drifting medium it is very tempting to image direction of drift of successive wave centres ( fig. 4 ) ; in which case everything will symmetrical , and the law of reflexion will be obeyed altogether , by both waves and in the simplest possible manner .
But a little thought shows that this is for it would make the reflected waves assisted in their progress by the drift just as much as the incident waves are assisted ; whereas they are really in the teeth of the wind , their progress being impeded and their wave-length just as much as the incident waves are helped and lengthened ( or of course versed ) .
Plainly the drift is not reflected , but must be supposed to act on the emitted by the image exactly as it acts on the waves emitted by the source .
Another tempting thing to do is to start a system of waves from source and its image simultaneously , both subject to precisely the same drift velocity , one the the other the reflected system .
But applying this , and taking a of waves intersecting at any one point of the mirror , it will be found they have travelled the same distance to get there , nor have they taken the same time , and drift of their centres has been different .
Moreover , they do not intersect at a point of the same wave , and , in fact , the system behind the mirror is nob in sense the image of the front set .
really essential thing is that the phase of the reflected wave shall be identical that of its incident exciter ab the point of contact with the mirror , and accordthat the time of virtual journey from any point to be considered as an image is be equal to the time of journey from the corresponding point of the source .
less direct or more geometrical than this seems satisfactory , so it had better applied in its usual Huyghenian baldness .
At the same time a little caution is in using HUYGHENS ' construction in a moving medium , for the centre of the waves does not remain at the point of incidence , drifts away , as in 4 , and the construction has to remember this , or it will go wrong .
of Reflexion Refractio in a Drifing Medium .
Since the direction of drift need not be in the plane of incidence , it will be conto resolve it into two components , respectively in and perperldicula to that consider them separately .
Component of Drift Plane of Incidence .
perpendicular component is very easily disposed of , as was shown by STOKES.* For looking down the normal to the mirror we shall see the * ' Math. anci Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , incident and reflected rays AO and OB , incident at the point , affected by the in such a way that their direction is and OB ' respectively ; but they still botb in a plane normal to the surface , and they still make equal angles with surface .
And ards refraction , an equal length of the refracted ray will be into OC ; and the drift inside the medium being , according to theory , , will in the longer time table carry to , such that renlains a straight line ; accordingly , the plane of the refracted ray is still the of incidence .
Hence the perpendicular component of the drift , is wholly and we have only to consider the component in the plane of incidence ; call it Component of Drift in of Incidence .
Consider a plane wave travelling , with an aberration angle between normal and its direction of advance caused by a drift in direction AA ' , a mirror , at a pace compounded of the speed of light and of the drift , Let incident and reflected rays make angles and respectively with the normal , and with the line of drift , so that if is the inclination of drift ection to the mirlor-normal , The incident and reflected waves will be inclined to the surface by the angles , respectively .
When the wave AB strikes the mirror , A becomes a source of radiation , travels on to , with a velocity compounded of BB ' and .
By the time the radiation from A will spread a distance equa ] to through medium , and the centre of a wave with this radius will have had time to drift the moving medium to , a distance equal to BB ' ; hence , drawing the , and choosing on it a point , such that , we have the of the reflected ray , viz. , , and of the reflected wave CE .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
67 .
It is easy to see that the triangle PA'C is isosceles , and accordingly that the is equal to half the difference of the inclinations of incident and reflected to the mirror surface ; i.e. , calling this angle the is reflected precisely as if the mirror were rotated through the angle and there were no drift ; the angle of virtual rotation being very approximately the mean of the Tation angles .
The first approximation to its value is ; practically vanishes , therefore , for normal incidence and for tangential drift .
Further , as regards the change of width of the beam or distance between the rays , is apparent that measured along the wave-surface it is the same , because ; so measured perpendicularly it changes in the ratio of : and after reflexion .
68 .
It is not to be supposed that the ray is reflected after this manner ; and , in fact , shall find that the error of ray-reflexion , or difference between angle of incidence , is exceedingly small .
determine this difference , and the whole cumstances of the problem , we rite the following equations , obvious from figure 17 : .
Also , for the time of journey of the wave from position AB to Lastly These solve the , and they may be conveniently worked on the lines\mdash ; ; , the last equality being added for convenience , and being true because Therefore , exactly , \mdash ; whence , expanding and neglecting or The discrepancy between the angles of incidence and reflexion ( which I call brevity the error of reflexion ) is therefore exactly expressible in even powers aberration magnitude , and no part of it reverses with the reversal of the ray .
vanishes for grazing incidence , and is a maximum for normal incidence ( at am somewhat surprised ) .
It vanishes both for tangential and for normal drift , a maximum when the medium drifts at to the mirror .
The maximum possible value of the error of reflexion is , or of a radian , , or of a second of arc ; an amount which , although equivalent to error of only 15 inches in the circumference of the earth , it is perhaps possible detect ; especially if , as .
MICHELSON suggests , it be increased by reflexion .
Indeed , it strikes me as perhaps the simplest way of examining into motion of the ether near the earth .
Refraction in Drifting 69 .
rrhe reasoning for refraction is precisely of the same kind , and there nothing more but to write down the equations , putting everywhere instead of instead of , and consequently instead of It is best t , hus to assume FRESNEL'S theory , and leave observation to point out deviation from it that may be existent .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
A separate figurs may save confusion ; though the general case is easily drawn fig. 17 ) a special case serves better for illustration , and I depict the case of drift incident ray .
and are the angles between refracted ray and the drift direction and waverespectively ; the angle of refraction , defirled as usual , may be called ; so These are the equations to be used in conjunction with the previous set , and so it that Wherefore Or Which shows that the difference between and , or the error of refraction , likewise of the second order of aberration magnitude , i.e. , ordinarily speaking , nil ; its value being easily obtainable if ever wanted .
The displacement of lines due to the Sun 's rotation is a small thing to detect with a prism but this effect of motion on terrestrial cQources , if it is ever to be seen , is 660 smaller .
70 .
It may , perhaps , be well to check over our results by the less method employed by Sir GEORGE , viz. , by expressing the fact } the section of the three waves ( incident , reflected , and refracted ) with the mirror is a and runs along the nlirror at a pace which can easily be written ; for the wave advances through the medium at a speed V , and medium helps it along with a component of its drift velocity ; so total speed of the joint wave intersection as it runs along the mirror is which it is easy to see is precisely the same as what we shouId have obtained attending to rays and to the figure , viz. , AC So the equations for reflection and refraction can be written down at once , thus : , together with the values of the aberration angles , obtained , say , by resolving wave and drift velocities perpendicular to the ray , or resultant direction of and expressing the fact that they must neutralize each other ; .
These two sets of equations contain the entire solution , and of course may written if it is a question of passage from one medium to another instead from vacuum to a medium ; the V and then expressing speeds in first medium .
71 .
In Sir GEORGE beautifully performed and described experiment of value of the coefficient of aberration measured by a zenith sector full of water , should , we see , on FRESNEL'S theory , have been a slight discrepancy , but one too small to observe with the various inaccuracies inseparable from star-light .
is to be detected it must be with light from a terrestrial]y fixed source .
The ' Phil. Mag , vol. 43 , p. 310 . .
OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
of HOEK and others , performed with terrestrial light , aimed only at disproving notion that an error proportional to the first power was to be expected , did not aim at the immense delicacy needed to observe Wave-length as ltered by Reflexion .
Since the laws of reflexion are so closely obeyed , an image in a mirror will prac appear just the same whether the is stationary or not , and , accordthe image may be treated as the virtual source for all questions relating to length and Doppler effect , and the waves coming from that image will in general affected by drift otherwise than are the waves coming from the source , because direction is ifferent .
in stance , sunshine strikes the earth perpendicularly to its motion , but reflected may coincide with the direction of motion , and , in that case , will have ) against ( or with ) the ether wind precisely as if it came from a terrestrial and its wave-length will be affected as already reckoned ; in other words , of a mirror moving with the orbital motion of the earth only , considered as the image of the Sun moves as if attached to the mirror ( not at twice the and , accordingly , reflected sunshine behaves as regards wave-length precisely if it were coming from a terrestrial source .
[ More generally ( i.e. , cluding ccentricity of orbit and aberration ) reflected light as seen by an observer moving with mirror appears in every respect like direct light .
] For irregular reflexion , e.g. , from white paper or from the Moon or a planet , these can be treated as being themselves the sources .
Change of Phase by in Moving Iedium .
73 .
Now consider the phase as affected by reflexion .
Consider the two parallel rays A and , in fig. 17 , distant from each other , and lag initially by an amount behind ( S67 ) , then , after reflexion , the apart has changed so thab say , and the lag is Hence the gain of lag by reflexion , , , very approximately , For normal incidence and tangential drift it has its maximum value , NDCCCXCIII .
Now whatever the initial may be ' .
and it may be arbitrary , the final lag differ from it by this same amount ; and if the rays , instead of being parallel , coincident in path , then no difference in phase is caused by reflexion .
Changc of Energy Reflexion Moving Mirror 74 .
When reflexion takes place from a moving ( receding ) mirror , there is some done on the mirror by reason of the intrinsic sure of light .
Calling the per unit volume , the energy of the in cident light per second is , and of reflected , the pressure is , and the work done per second So or .
Or ider the mirror fixed medium moving with source away from the speed of incident light is , of the reflected is , but no work is so Wherefore , on either mode of consideration , the energy of the reflected light is receding mirror less , from an advancing mirror greater , than that of the light , in the ratio Possible Effect of Light Pressure in Astronomy .
75 .
Light energy per unit volume on Mount Whitney , as determined by amounted to 67 microbarads , or , say , in outside space , three quarters of ergs cubic centimetre ; giving a pressure of the same number of dynes per sq .
centim. This on the Moon is withdrawn during eclipses , but , although equal the ordinary weight of 10,000 tons or so , it is too small to make sensible as it could only push the Moon inch in a fortnight .
On a small body , however , it may become comparable with gravitation.* On a small-enough dust particle , such as may be in tails of comets , the pressure and gravitative attraction of the Sun might balance .
I make the size 1 micron diameter for a sphere of the density of , at any distance .
smaller than this would be repelled , and would get up an excessive velocity in find that FITZGERALD made a commtlnication years ago to the Royal Dubhn Socie on subject .
] DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLFMS .
Direction of Motion of a on the Earth .
Of all the motions to which the earth is subject its orbital motion is the and is the most important for aberrational effects ; but others must not overlooked , since may introduce secular variations into the amount of those viz. , the diurnal rotation and the motion of the system through space .
speed of the motion of the system is only approximately known , but it is estiat miles a second , or million C.G.S. , and its direction is completely by stating a point fixed stars .
speed of the iurnal rotation is latitude , or very compared with that of light , and its direction is simply from west to east .
It a variation in the total aberration , amounting to nearly 2 per cent. at these motions are steady .
orbital motion is not quite constant in speed , and goes through the whole plane of directions , but its average value may be stated as oo that of light , and direction is sufficiently expressed for practical purposes by saying that is in plane of the ecliptic , and at right angles to the Sun 's direction .
For instance , is roughly in the line of the earth 's orbital motion .
We are moving as away from an increasing half-moon or towards a decreasing ] -moon .
way of putting the matter , is that at midnight the annual and diurnal approximately in direction , at midday they are opposed .
At of the solstices the agreement is good , i.e. , the orbital motion at a solstice is east .
to west at noon , from west to east at midnight ; and at no time of the year error of this of very great practical import , for even at the per cent. of the motion is in the direction stated .
clock might easily be made to point out the direction of orbital motion .
By it is never difficult to realize it , for there are usually planets enough to make ediptic manifest , and there is no difficulty in estimating whereabouts the Sun is .
a twenty-four hour watch in the plane of the ecliptic with its noon line pointing and its hour hand will constantly indicate the direction of the earth 's bital The only difficulty is knowing where the plane of ecliptic Consider a globe with its axis tilted , and rotating by internal mechanism once twenty-four hours .
The plane of ecliptic is horizontal , and the direction of motion be given by a pointer revolving once a year in a horizontal plane , or , more simply , the appropriate radius of a horizontal card with.365 days of the year Wl.itten round circumference .
With that alone , however , it would be a little puzzling to compare slowly changing direction with the position of any given locality on the rotating Ihe whole might be turned by hand till the required locality came to the ) , the axis in the meridian , and then the pointer would agree with the direction of motion ; or , more simply , there need be no globe at all , but simply a polar axis once a day opposite to the earth , and carrying with it a dial with the names of months and days recorded round its circumference , set on the axis at an obliquity , and adjusted once for all to coincide with the ecliptic .
The date on the will then point out the line of motion .
The clock , if kept to , would give the motion more erroneously than a small correction analogous to the of time .
By giving the card one step forward every 29th of February , it could kept right until the whole thing wanted that part of a rotation per about a vertical axis which precession demands .
[ My assistant , Mr. E. E. has connected a clock through a HooKE'sjoint with a pointer which moves so as fairly to indicate the direction of orbital motion at any instant .
] methods of detecting Motion through 77 .
It might perhaps appear possible that electrical methods may succeed showing a first-order effect of terrestrial motion , since charged bodies in motion each other with modified force .
It is not possible to control or vary it except by combining the above several of movement , and FITZGERALD has suggested a plan of observing whatever effect be caused by the alternate agreement and disagreement between the earth 's motion and the solar system 's proper motion : say by measuring the attraction charged parallel plates at intervals of six months .
But , inasmuch as the force between charged bodies is independent of the direction their motion , or ( otherwise ) because the electrical attraction between parallel charges depends on the product of their velocities , it must be the second-order aberration magnitude that is really involved .
DESCRIPTION 0F PLATES 31 AND 32 .
Plate 31 .
Details of optical frame , showing the mode of supporting the mirrors , the silvered and the semi-transparent .
Plate 32 .
Details of whirling machine , showing the pair of steel disks , 1 yard diameter , driven by an electric motor , DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION OBLEM@ .
Page .
Section 29 .
Moving matter , on 's hypothesis , does not disturb the ether of space 752 30 .
No first-order experimental result yet obtained can discriminate between complete connection and complete independence of ether . . . . . . . .
752 31 .
Question whether purely irrotational motion is possible in a medium through which planets move . . . . . .
753 32 .
Viscous motion must curve rays and cause a real or negative aberration 754 Experimental Poriion .
33-46 .
Details of apparatus made to examine into the velocity of light near moving matter ; and experiments tending to the conclusion that the ether is not connected to matter by anything resembling viscosity . . . . . .
754-76 47 .
Future experiments .
The effect of moving air is too small for observation so far . . . . .
778 More detailed consideration of Aberrational in .
Moving Medium .
48 .
Change of entire medium changes aberration constant . . .
779 49 .
Motion of entire medium has a second-order effect on aberration . . . .
779 50 .
Change of a part of the medium does not appreciably modify aberration effects . . . . .
51 .
Connection of with FRESNEL'S law . . . .
781 52 .
Motion of a part of the medium does cause aberrational effects . . . .
782 More detailed consideration of Doppler Effects .
53 .
Differences between moving source and moving receivel . . . . .
782 64 .
Steady motion of medium causes no Doppler effect . . . . .
784 55 .
is able to modify one otherwise caused . . . . . .
785 66 .
apparent change of wave-length observed by a mowing grating is really an aberrational effect , due to motion of observer partly across the line of sight . . . . . .
786 67 .
.The same is true for observation made with a moving prism .
In both cases dispersion depends really ou wave-length , apparently on frequency . . .
788 58 .
Dispersive power due to motion . . . . .
789 Jfore detailed of Michelson Experiment or Interference Effects in Jfoving Medium .
69 .
Geometrical treatment of the reversal ray ou itself in any azimuth with respect to the motion of source . . . . . . . . .
789 60 .
Another treatment , with medium moving . . . . .
791 61 .
Effect of the glass lenses and slabs used by MICIIELSON . . . . . . . . .
791 62 .
Effect of a completely different medium . . . . . . . . . . .
792 The Laws of Refleeion and Refraction in a Jfoving Medium .
63 .
General considerations . . . . . . . . .
793 64 .
Summary of results . . . . . . . . .
794 65 .
Warning against possible errors . . . . . . . . .
796 66 .
Reflexion in a moving medium . . . . . . . . .
795 67 .
Effect of drift on svaves , and on width of beam . . . . .
797 DR. OLIVHiR LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
Page .
Section 68 .
Effect of drift on rays .
of Possibi ] of detecting it 797 69 .
Error of action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
798 70 .
Verification by Stokes ' method , pushed to second order of minutiae . . . .
800 71 .
Possibility of detecting an effect due to error of refraction . . . . . . .
800 72 .
Effect of reflexion on . . . . . . . . . .
801 73 .
Effect of reflexion on phase . . . . . . . . . . . .
801 74 .
Effect of reflexion on energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
802 75 .
Possible effect of pressure of light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
802 76 .
Direction of motion of a place on the earth . . . . . . . . .
803 Electrical Methods .
77 .
Electrical methods , like optical methods , can only detect second order of aberration magnitudes as caused by general ethereal drifb , i.e. , by motion of apparatus and observer through space . . . . .
804 1 .
THE nature of the connexion between ether and gross matter is one of the most striking physical problems which now appear ripe for solution , and as a preliminary the undertaking of fresh experiments I propose to review the subject in order to realize our present position in connexion with it .
The subject may be attacked either optically or electrically .
It first prominently presented itself historical]y in cormexion with the earth 's motion through space and the finite of light ; and it will be convenient to consider the matter first on thi@ side , and to realize precisely what ought to be expected to happen on any simple hypothesis concerning the ether ; working it out , however , in most cases ith accuracy , * by no means ignoring as negligible small quantities of the second order ( hun-millionths ) , which MICHELSON has practically shown to be nowadays within the of highly-refined observation .
Necessary Hypotheses or 2 .
There are one or two hypotheses regarding the ether so elementally obvious that may be regarded as almost axiomatic , such as the following:\mdash ; In interstella'space the ether is free ; that is , its properties in no way depend the existence or motion of gross matter .
It may , therefore , be called at rest .
it is in rest or not appears to be a question which can hardly be into an intelligible shape .
If it be moving relatively to itself , we have in those no obvious mearls of ascertainin the fact .
But just as it is natural to assuin its properties free space are uniform , so it is natural to assume that its motion whatever it is , is perfectly unifo1m , and it may be defined as absolute rest .
I speak , of the ether anywhere as ' stationary I mean stationary with respect * Whenever equations are approximate only , the symbol used instead of the symbol NDCCCXCIII .
to interstellar or free ether .
When I speak of the ether anywhere as " " free I that its properties are identical with the interstellar ether enormously distant all gross matter .
And this is the condition of ordinary space , except for the of meteoric particles , whose influence , if any , we at present legitimately ignore .
The only hypothesis which at first sight appears to assume finitely distant to be affected by the motion of , say , the earth , is that of Sir GEORGE STOKES , 1845 , where an irrotational motion , zero with respect to the earth , was postulated it .
But he must have seen way in which so impossible an assumption could avoided ; and the question how far any kind of irrotational motion can be of as allowing rest at infinity , and yet no ] at the earth 's will be later , S31 .
( ii .
) Inside bodies the ether is modified .
\mdash ; We learn this by direct meant and observation .
For transparent bodies we learn it by optical experiments , which proves that travels more slowly through their modified ether than it does in free ether ; while the same time there is no doubt but that the ether inter-penetrates them , material substance itself is wholly incompetent to transmit anything possessing properties and the speed of radiation .
In metallic bodies we find great opacity combined with dispersion other complex effects .
In them evidently the ether is intensely modified , if it at all .
I shall call the ether inside gross matter of any kind " " modified ether the particular way it is modified I make no assumption .
ectrostatic suggest that inside transparent bodies , somethin .
which may be called its elasticity\ldquo ; is diminished .
Magnetic experiments suggest that inside several substances it is loaded , so as to increase what may be called its " " virtual and there is a temptation to identify wibh the one , and with the these two ethereal constants .
Furthcr , electrokinetic experiments suggest that metallic conductors the ether has a virtual viscosity , whereby its motion matter is resisted precisely as the first power of the velocity .
But none doubtful hypotheses shall here be obtruded .
] of Travel of\ldquo ; Modified\ldquo ; Ether .
3 .
Defined in this way it is quite obvious that " " modified ether\ldquo ; travels at the steady pace as its material encasement .
For lift a lump of glass or of copper side of a table to the other , the modified ether which was in one place is another , and has necessarily accompanied the material body .
If the ether by matter requires time , there would be some lag during epochs of but during steady ocity there would even so be no difference in speed nodified ether and matter , only a slight lag in space .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
Ignoring this possible finite speed of affection of other by matter , unless circumstances make us revert to it , the question faces us , what is meant by the travelling the modified ether ?
It is not a question easy to state without some looseness of language , but we may ask : ( a ) Does it mean that the identical stuff inside the matter travels from one place to the other ?
If so , the free ether which it has displaced must stream back round the body in the same way as a naterial fluid would have to do .
( b ) Or does it mean that no ether travels at all , that the mere .
presence of the matter causes the modification wherever it is , so that it is only the modification or affection which travels ?
If so , the ebher abandoned by the matter becomes free in while the ether encroached on by the matter becomes modified in situ , and there is no question as to its motion .
On hypothesis ( b ) the whole ether is fixed and nperturbable by the motion of matter .
The ion enshrouded by matter at any instant has properties differing ffom those of free ether , but the modification is only connected with the matter causing it in the same sort of way as a shadow is connected with the object casting it .
Of the two hypotheses , there can be no question but that the second is the simpler and considered as a hypothesis is preferable , but we must enquire whether it is competent to sustain the weight of all known facts .
FRESNEL'S Hypothesis .
4 .
Ib is notorious that the hypothesis at present holding is not exactly either of these , but is some form of the bold picturesque idea of SNEL ; that in addition to the free and undisturbed ether of space existing equally evel.ywhere .and flowing through the pores of gross matter , there is an extra quimtity of bound ether fixed to the matter and travelling with it ; this additional quantity being of the whole .
This idea of FRESNEL'S sesms , at first sight , cssentially to involve the condensation of othel by natter , so that its density inside bodies is ; for the fixed ether is superposed upon the llormal ethcr of ( Certainly the converse is true ; , that extra ethereal density involves FRESNEL'S law , as will shortly shown .
) Now the facts of gravi ation , and many electrostatic experiments , suggest that the ether is incompressible ; hence the notion of any actual increase of inside gross matter is , however , himself pointed out , in a subsequently written postscript to his original lcbte ] to promulgating his famous hypothesis , that the extra density need not bs taken too literally .
( As this seems rather to have been overlooked it may be worih whils to quote it ) .
" " Note tionnelle a la lettre de M. FBESNEL M. dans le dernier Cahier des Annals .
En calculant la refraction de la lumier , dans uu prisme par le vement terrestre , j'ai pour simplffier les raisonnements , que la dffie'rence entre les vitesses de la lumiere dans le isme * ' Ann de Chim .
et de Phys. ' ( 2 ) , vol. 9 , eb dans l'ether environnant provenait uniqueluent d'une ence de densite , l'elasticite etant la de part et d'autre ; mais est tres possible que les deux milieux different en elasticite comme densite .
On meme que l'elasticite d'un corps solide peut varier avec le sens suivant lequel le considore ; eb c'est tres probablement ce ui occasionne la double refraction , comme l'a observe le .
NIais quelle que soit se que l'on fasse sir Jes canses du raleutissement de , la marche lumiere dans Ies corps transparents , 011 peut toujours , pour resoudre le problem qui m'etait substituer par la pensee , au milieu reel du prisme , un fluide elastique en equilibre de tension avec l'etb environnant , et d'une densite tell que la vitesse de la lumiere soit precisement la meme dans ce fluide dans le prisme supposes en repos ; cette egalite devra subsister encore dans les deux milieux entraines le mouvement terrestxe : or , tells sont les bases sir lesquelles repose mou calcul .
Ann. de Chim .
de Phys 1818 , t. 9 ; p. 128 or 286 .
) And Mr. GLAZEBROOK ( ' Phil. Mag December , 1888 ) shows that in the interaction of eth and matter , a term depending on relative acceleration is sufficient to sustain the results achie , ved hypothesis .
In other words , that a virtual density , or loading of the ether by matter , is enough without true condensation .
It is , however , still appropriate to speak of the ethereal density inside matter ; meani ) the coefficient of this acceleration term .
5 .
A plausible mode of exhibiting the naturalness of FRESNEL'S law is as follows : The constant which determines the speed of electromagnetic waves through medium is ; by the differential equation to wave motion .
In a dense body the value of this constant is Shift a lump of this body from one place to another .
Its constant has be shifted in position too , but the ordinary space-value remains behind ; so tl resultant shift of the property determining the velocity of light ( the effective mediu1 is a fraction , of the shift of the body .
So , if the lump moves with velocity , the property of it concerned with ] velocity of light shifts with velocity ; that is with And , as in all probability the velocity of wave motion relative to its medium unaltered , this may be taken as the extra speed of the light caused by the motion the matter .
6 .
It is here assumed that the medium simply carries the wave motion with air carries sound .
It is not customary to doubt that wave motion must be affect ' by any motion of its medium in that simple manner .
But a singular investigation Professor J. J. THOMSON ( ' Phil. Mag April , 1880 ) seems to show that on magnetic principles the speed of ether waves is affected with only half the velocity the medium conveying them .
This extraordinary result is not at present positively contradicted by the experiment , even as repeated by ]iLSON , because the value of for is not sufficiently different from to afford a certain criterion ; and water is the substance for which a positive result has as yet been obtained .
Certainly negative result obtained for by both FIZEAU and MICHELSON is in accord FRESNEL'S theory and not in accord with J. J. THOMSON'S .
But a definition of DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROB meant by " " moving l1ledium\ldquo ; seelns before can adequately test the question whether electromagnetic waves in it love with it or lag behind .
I suppose that it must be desirable to ex mine substances other than especially those with a much higher refractive index .
I hope to do this , though it may be noted that the value of ?
which makc FRESNEL'S and THOMSON'S theories exactly fJree , is , and that the available range of refractive indices of liquids and solids affords but a narrow margin for discrimination between the two hypotheses .
The balance of evidence is at present strongly in favour of FRESNEL'S hypothesis , and I propose ordinarily to assume its truth .
I cannot , indeeo1 , understand the possibility of THOMSON'S theory , though I detect no flaw in his work , for it seems to require a distinction between the case of source receiver moving through a medium , and the case of medium flowing past source or receiver ; that is , it seems to demand a of absolute velocity .
FRESNEL'S 7 .
The statement of FRESNEL'S law can be thrown almost into the form of hypothesis ( b ) , S 3 , and at the same time its apparent licence of language about " " free\ldquo ; and " " bound\ldquo ; etber can be lessened , by supposing that the " " modification\ldquo ; induced by the encroachment of matter on the ether is really a condensation , in the 1 : ; no motion in the ether other than what is necessarily involved in that act being postulated .
On this method of statement the ether outside a moving body is stationary , but , as the body advances , ether is continua ] lie condensing in and , as ib were , behind , while inside it is streaming through the in its condensed condition at a pace that what is equivalent to the normal of ether in space may absolutely stationary .
To , end its speed to the body must be , and accordingly its Bpeed in space must be .
Thus , instead of saying that a portion of the ether is lnoving with the full velocity of the body while the rest is stationary , it is probably preferable to say that the whole internal ether is moving with a fraction of the velocity of the body .
One or other form of statement is absolutely involved in the Fresne ] lian idea increased ethereal density , as may be rigorously shown ( vide Lord Nature , ' March , 1892 ; vide also EISENLOHR ) , thus : Consider a slab moving forward flatways with velocity , let its internal be , and let the external ether , of density 1 , be stationary .
Let the speed the internal ether through be , and consider that the amount of ethel between two planes moving with the slab , cne outside and one inside , must be ; it follows at once that whence Now whatever may be the inner meaning of this statement concerning the of the internal ether , it certainly agrees with , and is at once suggested by , the thoroughly established by both negative and positive experiments , that light down a running stream of matber at a pace .
The negative experiments supporting this are such as the achromatic prism meant suggested and tried by ARAGO , repeated more borately by MAXWELL and MASCART ; the water-telescope ions suggested by BOSCOVICH , tried by and by HOEK ; interference experiments of BABINET aJld of HOEK ; and several experiments by MASCART .
The positive experiment establishing it is the beautiful and well-known one of FIZEAU , now repeated and confirmed beyond reach of any but quantitative cavil by Whether any ether is moved by moving matter may still be an open question , that the speed of light is affected in a fairly ascertained way by the motion transparent matter through which it is passing , is certain .
8 .
But the specific motion of the internal ether is not the whole of FRESNEL'S thesis ; there is the fixity of the external ether to be verified too .
And that has yet been done .
In fact , one important experiment , to be discussed later on , grave dou.bt upon it , at least for large moving bodies like the earth .
But unless the fixity of external ether be granted , our argument from concerning the value of the internal velocity down .
Consider again planes moving with a slab of matter , one inside and one outside the mass , the space motion of the outside ether at the position of outside plane be affected the motion of the slab to the extent , then all we can say is that , or , wherefore it is possible for and to be unity together .
We may take it , however , that the quantitative accuracy of the FIZEAU meant renders anything of this sort very unli\amp ; ely , and that we are bound to the ether ummediately outside moving matter to be stationary , i.e. , to be pletely cted by its motion , unless we are directly forced by facts to admit contrary .
* Amer .
J. Sci vol. 31 , p. 377 . .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
735 The two parts of FRESNEL'S law , the motion of internal ether , and the fixity of ether , can and ought to be separate]y .
Thhe FIZEAU experiment has the one .
I propose to attempt the other .
To this end I am passing a beam light , split into equal halves , very near a rapidly rotating disk ( in fact between pair of rotating disks clamped together ) , so that one half the light avels with the motion and the other half travels against it .
The two half bean ) , after journeys round and round , are united , with interference effects , the observation consists in watching the system of bands for any shift caused by the For description of this experiment see SS33-47 below .
Resulting from Motion of Source , Receiver , 9 .
The phenomena which can be appealed to as evidence of a state of motion , and necessarily result from that motion if of a suitable kind , are four , ( 1 ) or apparent changes in direction of ray , as observed by telescope with cross-wires ; the change commonly called " " aberration\ldquo ; proper .
( 2 ) Changes or apparent changes in frequency of vibration , as observed by the pitch or appreciated by an observer , or by the shifted position of lines in a spectroscope ; a change which may be leferred to as the Doppler ( 3 ) Changes or apparent changes in the time taken over a fixed journey , as observed by the relative lag in phase between two portions of a split beam and the consequent shift of interference fringes when they are re-united .
( 4 ) Changes or apparent changes in the intensity of radiation in directions , as observed by the of energy received by a given area exposed normal to the rays at a given distance from a source , but having different aspects with respect to the line of motion .
briefly summarizing them , the ) possible phenomena caused by motion are changes direction , in period , in phase , and in amplitude .
Direction as Affected by Motion in Generul .
10 .
Consider the subject first from a corpuscular or projectile point of view , first the medium .
A gum travelling broadside on must be aimed behind the and its shot will travel in a skew direction ( keeping always straight in front of muzzle , but not travelling along the axis of the gun ) with a velocity compounded the speed of projection and the speed of the gun .
The apparent position of the as recognized through a hole in the target , will therefore be its true position time of firing , but not its position at time of hit .
Whether we.choose to call this an aberration or not is a matter of nomenclature If the gun is fixed , with the target moving across the line of fire , the gun must DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION be aimed in front of the object .
The shot will go straight along the barrel but the hole in the target will indicate a gun in front of its true position ; error being aberration proper .
of shot fired from a moving cannon ; piercing a target , at if stationary , at if moving same pace as gun .
ABCD is the locus of successive shots , but is not the line of iire .
If both gun and target are travelling at the same speed everything occurs as they were at rest , unless a stagnant medium has to be taken into account .
motion of the medium causes windage , as is well known .
Since motion of the medium causes a shift of the line of fire , it may be to produce a miss , but this is not a true aberration , it only appears to be because of the fire being limited to one line ; suppose instead of a single gun a side of guns or a number of guns from a turret , then the effect of a crossis , indeed , to displace all the shots , but not to prevent the target being hit by which would otherwise have missed it , and the hole in the target will indicate position of the gun really firing the shot .
Hence , even on a corpuscular theory , wind across the line joining source and receiver , will not cause any efFective tion .
Neither can a steady tail wind deliver a stream of bullets from a more frequently than they are emitted .
If guns are fired from a revolving turret , the paths of the shot will not be but will be skewed by an amount depending upon the peripheral velocity .
Watching the beams of a revolving lighthouse , tracking their way to a and brandished rapidly round , it is not at once quite evident whether the shape those beams is not a spiral of enormous pitch ( see below ) .
We see , however , on the corpuscular view the paths will be straight , though radiating from precise centre ; for instance , the rays from the Sun , whose peripheral velocity nearly 5000 miles an hour , would if regarded as projectiles , be inclined to their at an angle of radian , or about seconds of arc ; and the Sun 's would be , apparently displaced through a fraction of this angle , equal to radius/ Sun 's distance ; i. e. , through about the part of a second .
11 .
But now , proceeding to look at the matter from the point of view of there are many differences ; principally depending on the fact that there is no tion of initial velocity of projection about a wave : it crawls through the these projectile examples are only used for illustration , I simplify matters artificially omitting all curvatures of path .
The subject of ) ation in general is illustrated more fully Royal Institution , ' Proc. R. I April 1 , 1892 ; in ' Nature , ' vol. 46 , p. 497 .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION at its own definite velocity .
No aberrational effect can be produced any cause which does not act on a wave-front for a finite time .
of disturbances or waves emitted without momentum from a moving source ; ]eaving target or at if stationary , at if moving .
The line ABCD is the locus of successive disturb but is not the ray or real path .
The diagram may also be taken to represent the effect of a cross stream of medium , with source waves emitted by a revolving source advance just as they would if it were ; any peculiarity on the surface , say a Sun spot , , is depicted in a precisely direction , and there will be no displacement of the Sun 's centre .
So also with from a flying star : the star will be seen in its posit , ion at time of emission , just it is seen in the physical state corresponding to that , not to the instant vision .
of parallel beams emitted from a revolving lighthouse .
ABCD is the apparent beam , but AS , BS , \amp ; c. , are the lines of vision or true rays .
to a beam from alevolving lighthouse , it is not the of a labelled disturor true ray , which displays itself by illuminating dust particles , but it is the locus successive disturbances sent out from a given moving point ; so if the source has through an angle while the light travels a distance their shape a spiral of ARCHIMEDES as suspected above ; though the direction vision is not tangential to them , but is truly radial as already stated .
analogy between rays of light and lines of fairly close , and just as it is convenient to say a rotating source revolves its rays , so it is convenient to say that a rotating magnet revolves ibs of force .
The induction phenomena obtained from a magnet spinning on its own axis are a justification of this statement .
* an old note-book of date 1876 , I find a for measnring the speed of magnetio propagaby rotating a long bar magnet on its axis and observing its action on a distant magnetic needle ; *See also Mr. PRESTON , ' Phil. Mag Februa17 and March , 1885 .
the idea being that with a finite speed of propagation the Jines of forcs would lag , and thereby out of the magnet 's meridian ; so that a distant needle instead of pointing straight at magnet would be tange tial to these lines , and would therefore be slightly deflected during the spin .
We now see , however , tha no such aberrational effect is to be expected , except on a corpuscular of netic propagation .
Concerning the effect of motion of other kinds , certain things are known ; e.g. , motion of the receiver is known to cause aberration , however the be precisely accounted for ; and motion of the medium alone is known not to aberration of any perceptible magnitude , else would terrestrial surveying be inaccurate .
But no data as yet obtained are evidence small quantities of the second order , and it.will be well to examine critically geometrically the whole subject of wave motion from a moving point to a telescope through a uniformly moving medium , all the velocities being different in and direction .
So far as steady and uniform motion concerned this may be considered the most general case .
Convenience of attributing Motion to Medium .
12 .
Before considering separately the phenomena mentioned in S9 , it may be venient to consider what it is which must be in motion in order to produce one other of them .
And , first , which of them a motion of the medium alone causes .
Nothing can be more certain than that relative motion is all we are concerned so that whether a source travels through a medium , or the medium drifts past source , comes to precisely the same thing .
Sometimes one mode of expression is venient , sometimes the other .
It may be most natural to contemplate the as stationary , and to throw all motion on source and receiver , but I find often very simple and helpful to invert this order , and to think of the ether of as drifting past the earth , or other body , supposed stationary .
We shall nob invariably use this device , but whenever a number of things\mdash ; mirrors , telescope , and observer\mdash ; have to be thought of as moving all precisely through the ether , it is simpler to think of the ether as streaming past them .
Case of Fixed Source in Moving Medium .
13 .
Consider now a fixed point-source in a uniformly moving Spherical wave-fronts are thrown off and immediately begin to drift , so that centres get displaced a distance , , while their radii enlarge by an amount , ; the distance through space which a disturbance has by that time travelled in direction will be compounded of these two distances , and will be inclined the radius , or direction of travel if all were stationary , by an angle , which DR. LODGE ON PROBLEMS .
the aberration angle .
The velocity with which light journeys over the radius , is V say : of the journey being simply , as before .
is defined by the equally obvious geometrical waves omitted by a fixed source into a drifting nledium .
The row of dots ) bont tho respective wave-centres .
The figure also represents waves in a stationary medium , emitted by a source moving from to is a picture of the source and successively-emitted and abandoned drifting SM is the path of a labelled qturbance , and is to be considered ) ; it is inclined at angle to the corresponding wave-normals .
is what would have been the light journey in the same time if the medium had ; PM or SC represents the drift .
result of the state of things exbibited in the diagram may or may not be by a spectator\mdash ; that depends on what his own motion \mdash ; but if he is simply with the medium , he perceives the following:\mdash ; ( 1 ) An aberration , , in any direction inclined at angle to the motion , such that convenient to denote the ratio of velocities , , by a single symbol , and to it the aberration constant .
A telescope moving with the medium placed with object glass tangential to the advancing wave-fronts , will focus th image on its cross wires , and will be pointing not to the object , but to the centre of the wave it receiving ; its collimation axis coincides with a radius or wave-normal , not with a ( 2 ) A Doppler alteration of wave-length in every direction ; as is obvious the figure , from the distribution of drifted wave-fronts .
It is positive one side , ative on the other side , of a certain direction , , such that the radius vector equal to the radius , or ; the aberration angle for this particular case of no Doppler effect being twice the plement of A spectator moving with the medium will perceive this change of wave-length as change of pitch ( or colour ) of value An observer travelling with the medium will not observe any modification terferenoe or diffraction effects , nor will he experience aluy change of intensity to motion ; for the waves will be brought him at the customary time periods , and subject to the ordinary flux of energy , as if everything were stationary .
Case of moving in fixed Medium .
14 .
The me figure ( fig. 4 ) serves to illustrate the common case of medium obsel.ver stationary , and source alone moving .
But we must be careful to note that is only the aberration ) angle , and whether it is to be called aberration\ldquo ; or not depends on the meaning attached that term .
The source emits spherical waves in its successive positions , and them to expand at their normal rate .
The fixed telescope , pointing to centre advancing wave , is therefore pointing to the source at the instant when it that light ; and , it is thus seen in its true place at instant of emission , it most natural to say that the aberration caused by moving source alone is nil ; for it may have moved by the time of vision , is obvious .
There is not much more to be said on this head , for the source after throwing off wave may do what it likes , the light will convey information as to where and how was at the time of emission .
Phenomena depending on a of waves , changes of pitch , are of course produced , see fig. 4 .
The question arises whether the waves thrown off from a moving source are spherical shells : whether the motion of the source does not affect its vibration is not easy to answer this thoroughly and accurately , but practically there can be doubt that the emission of light cannot be affected by any feasible terrestrial DR. OLIVhR LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
in the time of one vibration , the earth , which is the quickest available vehicle , has moved a distance of oo of a wave-length ; which is equivalent to a middle sounding and creeping along at the rate of 15 inches an hour .
No practical as to imperfection in spherical form of wave from moving source is therefore to arise .
See however S 19 , for discu ssion of a question not of shape but of There happen to be one or two interesting things connected with the reflexion of from a moving source when there is some connexion established between the ray and the subsequent position of the source , e.g. , as when ra , y is reflected upon itself , with the object of causing interference ; these are lly dealt with 59 , 60 .
of Source Receiver moving together through Stationary Medium ; or , correlative case of Medium drifting fixed Source Receiver .
15 .
Consider a telescope fixed relatively to source , and medium drifting freely past The object-glass must be set skew to the waVe front , but normal to the ray or radius vector .
In fig. 4 , SM is the axis of the telescope , and it points straight at the source .
is no resultant aberration , the object is seen in its true position .
is also seen of its right colour , for the waves are carried to the receiver at their frequency : there is no Doppler effect .
A steady alone is powerless influence either direction or pitch .
But what about interference phenomena , depending on the time of a given journey a motion of the medium will be able to affect and may accordingly about the displacement of fringes representing hurry or lag of phase .
Consider a telescope fixed relatively to the source and placed so as to receive light the radius vector the medium is stationary , the light journey is accomplished in the time if moving , time of the journey is ' so there is a hurrying up of phase -- ' The wind therefore causes a positive or negative change of phase in every except that hose cosine is , the same direction as that already ( S13 ) as possessing a zero Doppler effect .
But the observation of the lag of phase thus caused by motion of the entire medium is not so easy as appear , and , in fact , it has not yet been .
detected ; the simple reason that it is liable to affect both the interfering rays equally : show .
Devices for Observing the of Phase .
16 .
The possible ways in which change of phase , produced by a moving may be looked for , are:\mdash ; to split a beam of light into two halves , and then\mdash ; ( 1 ) Make the medium flow with one half beam and against the other .
This is successful , and is the FIZEAU experiment ; but it entails control over mediuln , and artificial motion of it ; the terrestrial orbital motion cannot be in this way .
( 2 ) Send the two beams , not parallel , but round contours in two different or , say one across the of ether motion , and the other along .
This is MICHELSON'S experiment ; but it only attempts an effect whose is the second order of aberration magnitudes ; because , before the beams can brought together again to interfere , a reversal or complete circuit is necessary .
( 3 ) Make the medium flow different ates along the two beams : as instance , by interposing a dense substance in one of them .
But , on FRESNEL'S hypothasis , ought to fail ; because the free ether , wluch the only ether in motion , is unaffected by the dense substance .
The only way to either more or less than the normal quantity of ether in any given space , is to bodily a dense substance occupying that space .
So long as that is stationary , respect to source and receiver , motion of the whole produces no effect .
To prove that on FRESNEL'S law , no dense substance can cause different effects when moving than it causes when stationary , we can proceed to calculate virtua ] thickness of a slab immersed in an ether stream , or the time retardation causes in a beam .
ference Effects as modified by Motion through Dense 17 .
The calculation of the lag in phase caused by FRESNEL'S ethereal motion is very simple matter .
A dense slab of thickness , which would naturally be with the velocity , is traversed with the velocity ; is the relative velocity of the ether in its neighbourhood ; whence the time of through it is DR. OLIVER ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
, instead ' or the equivalent air thickness , instead of being , is or , to the first order of minutiae , being the angle between ray and ether side the medium .
So the extra equivalent air layer due to the motion is approximately a quantity independent of Hence , no plan for detecting this first-order effect of motion is in any assisted by the use of dense stationary nces ; their extra ether , being stationary , does not affect the lag caused by motion , except indeed in the second order of mall quantities , as shown above .
Direct experiments made by HOEK and by MASCART , on the effect of introducing tubes of water into the path of half beams of light , are in entire accord with negative conclusion .
Thus , then , we find that no genel.al motion of the entire medium can be detected by changes in direction , or in frequency , or in phase ; for on none of them has it any appreciable ( i.e. , first-order ) effect even when assisted by dense matter .
The remaimng possible effect that may be looked for is a change of energy , Effect of Motion on of Radiation in Different Direcfio 18 .
At first sight it looks as if there ought to be an unequal distribution of energy round a source past which the medium is streaming .
For when the waves are drifting along , their energy moves too , and it can thus be distributed unsymmet1ically round the source .
The energy emitted per second , or the power of the radiation , is where is the energy per unit at distance from the wave centre ; supposing that radiating power is unaffected by the motion .
So at a place , reckoning from source as origin , and line of drift as initial line ( as in fig. 4 ) , since , *chives Neerlandaises ' , p. 44.3 , or ' ' vol. 26 , , being the eIlergy at the same place when there was no drift .
So th energy received per second by a given small area A at that place , facing source , , normal to the rays , is A The radiation at distance from the source is , in fact , the same as what radiation would be at distance in a stationary medium ; except for the inclination So a pair of similar thermopiles , fore and at equal distances from a will , or. .
this hypothesis , receive unequal radiation ; the difference being equal , or proportional to FIZEAU gested this method , but I am not aware of its having been tried yet .
* Thermopile experiment suggested by FIZEAU ; in two alternative forms .
19 .
But it is a serious question whether the reasoning establishing the effect quite sound .
Ib not unlikely that motion may affect the radiating power source .
In fact , bhe theory of exchanges almost necessitates something of the else the two faces of an enclosure would become unequal in temperature by reason mere through the ethereal medium .
Hence , if , as in fig. 5 , we consider a pair of thermopiles with a hot body * The suggestion is quoted in a comprehensive , but to me not very intelligible , treatise on the subject of aberration : 'Astronomische Undulationstheorie , ' by Professor Dr. KETTIJLER , of Bonn .
BALFOUR STEWART ( ' Brit. Assoc , Report , ' 1871 , Sects .
p. 45 ) , argued that this inequality of ture actually occurred ; and , since motion thus afforded an available heat engine , he deduced ethereal friction , dissipating energy .
But , as Lord RAYLEIGH points out ( in his ] on " " ' Nature , ' March 1892 ) , it is .
more that motion old alter radiating and absorbing than that it should equality of temperature .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
them , or a pair of equally hot bodies with a thermopile half-way between all subject to an ethereal drift in the direction of the arrow , we may assert although the radiation from A is carried down stream in undue proportion ards , the amount actually emitted in this direction is diminished in a compensamanner , so that the resultant flux of energy remains unaffected by the motion .
is not necessary to suppose that motion disturbs the equality which otherwise between radiating and .
absorbing powers .
It is true that if a surface like less than when the medium is stationary , a surface like facing the stream radiate more ; but then it may absorb more also .
So that in all respects the nce may be undisturbed by the motion of the medium .
is probable , therefore , that even by this intensity method , nothing more than the order of aberration magnitude is effective for displaying a drift of the as a whole .
the same time it seems desirable that an experiment with thermopiles , like that ested by FIZEAU , should be tried , in order to verify the above deductions from theory of exchanges , combined with the supposed persistent uniformity of temperaof an enclosure whether at rest or in motion ; for thereby the absence of friction dissipation of energy by motion of solids through ether would be verified .
of only ceiver Moving .
If the receiver be not fixed relatively to the medium , nor relatively to the but be moving on its own account , the effects due to this motion must be to the preceding effects .
First suppose both source and medium stationary .
source emits waves in spherical shells , whose radii are also rays .
Any of the receiving telescope can be resolved tangentially and radially .
Radial gives Doppler effect only ; tangential motion gives aberration only\mdash ; both of the monplace type .
the telescope were stationary , its object-glass must be tangential to the wave but directly it moves it must encounter the wave front obliquely , with the same as if it were stationary and the medium drifting ( fig. 4 ) , and the eyewilJ then be brought to the light at the right instant .
Revolution of a radial about the source would effect this in the simplest way , without introducing Doppler effect or change in focal length .
a telescope straight at a source ( fig. 6 ) , and at the instant luminous disturbance starts from , let the telescope begin moving in a with a velocity .
Let it thus reach the position O by the time the has got as far as , i.e. , to the spherical wave front indicated in the diagTam .
it follows that by the time the telescope has reached the position the light have reached , too , and will accordingly have passed along the collimating axis reason of the combined motions .
Fig. 6 .
A telescope receiving light from and moving from O to while light traverses A stationary telescope receiving the same ray at the same instant would have to occupy the position , and would have looked straight at the object slightly greater focal length ) .
Hence the angle or is the angle of a tion , the amount by which the object appears to be displaced in the direction motion .
A telescbpe which had been revolving round the source , instead of translated , would have gone from AB to in the time , and have rotated this same angle .
Call it ; it is such that , say , the medium , remember , being stationary .
The focal length of the moving telescope differs from that for a fixed being O instead of , or ; but this is best regarded as part of the Doppler effect , since its principal term sents radial motion .
With a non-achromatic lens the change of refrangibility motion tends to compensate*this effect .
But whereas the change of refrangi is produced equally by motion of source or motion of receiver , this change of length seems to be caueed only by motion of receive ] : It is a shortening of a telescope recedes from the light .
I suppose it is too small to observe , else it seem able to discriminate motion of earth from motion of star , and give motion of telescope through the ether .
A terrestrial source ( e.g. , a sodium flame ) might be used , and a perfectly lens ; but surely no sing could be delicate enough to discriminate such difference as exists between the two sodium emissions !
The way in which motion of receiver to or from source causes an apparent of frequency , i. e. , a real change in the frequency with which waves are received , is well known and simple to be more than mentioned .
Its amount in any direction where , and is the velocity of the telescope at with the ray .
*This was originally written " " exaggerate DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION Summary .
Collecting these statements together , we may them thus : Source alone moving produces\mdash ; A real and apparent chaIJge of colour ; A. real but not apparent error in direction ; No lag of phase , except that appropriate to altered wave-length ; A change of intensity corresponding to different wave-length .
Medium alone moving , gives Source and receiver moving together No change of colour ; No change of direction ; A lag of phase , but undetectable without control over the medium ; A change of intensity corresponding to different virtual distance , but probably compensated by change of radiating power .
Receiver alone moving gives\mdash ; An apparent change of colour ; An apparent change of direction ; No change of phase , except that appropriate to extra virtual speed of light ; A change of intensity corresponding to erent virtual velocity of light .
the interference effect and the Doppler effect do not occur together .
Motion medium produces one ; motion of source or of receiver produces the other .
berration of direction and of pitch occur simultaneously , but are complementary each other , since one depends on motion across the line of sight , the other on along it .
One varies as the sine , the other as the cosine , of the inclination .
discussion of the Doppler effect is deferred to SS53-58 .
22 .
It is noteworthy that not one of the methods is able to establish the existence non-existence of a ethereal drift near the earth ; for , as shown above , motion of the entire medium produces no observable first-order ct of IC plainly becomes the more necessary to attend minutely to possible second- effects .
a paper in the 'Archives Neerlandaises , ' vol. 21 , Professor H. A. with much power , the whole subject of ether movement ; the of the method of treatment is derived from that paper .
Definition of 23 .
In S13 we defined a ray as the path of a labelled disturbance , for it is which enables an eye to fix direction , it is that which determines the line of of a telescope .
Now in order that a disturbanoe from A may reach , it is that adjacent elements of a wave front at A shall arrive at in the same phase ; the path by which a disturbance travels must satisfy this condition from point point , viz. , disturbances arriving at any point from a preceding point of a agree in phase .
This condition will be satisfied if the time of journey down a and down all infinitesimally differing paths is the same .
The equation to a ray is therefore contained in the statement that the time by light to traverse it is a minimum ; or minimum .
If the medium , instead of being stationary , is drifting with the velocity , at angle to the ray , we must substitute for V the modified velocity , and the function that has to be a minimum in order to give the path of a ray in a medium is minimum .
Path of Time of Jour.ney , through an Moving Medium .
24 .
Writing a velocity-potential in the above equation to a ray , that is and ignoring possible variations in the minute correction factor , between points A and , it becomes Time of journey minimum .
Now the second term depends only on end points , and therefore has no path .
The first term contains only the second power of aberration magnitude ; hence it has much the same value as if everything were stationary .
A ray that has been objecbed that a bit of wave-front cannot be labelled , because of diffraction effects .
seems to me only a practical difficulty , and a more practical definition based upon preserved nexion follows a few lines later in the text ; bnt the meaning conveyed by the convenient " " labelled disturbance\ldquo ; can equally well and I think unobjectionably be expressed by calling a path of a definite , or identical , portion of energy\mdash ; the direction of energy-flux.\mdash ; July , 1893 .
] DR. OLIVER ON PROBLh'MS .
will remain straight in spite of motion ; whatever shape it , that it will Only , and variations in , can produce any effect on path , and effects produced must be very small , since the value of is .
..order effect on direction may therefore be produced by motion , but a first-order effect .
A similar statement applies to the time of journey round any periphery .
25 .
We conclude , therefore , that general ethereal drift.does not affect either the of a ray or the time of its journey round a complete contour , to any important But that taking second-order quantities into account , the time of going to fro in any direction inclined at angle to a constant drift , is , from the above S24 , is the ordinary time of the double journey .
Hence , by this means , interference effects due to drift would seem to be possible , the time depends subordinately on the inclination of ray to drift ( cf. SS59-62 ) The above expression applies to remarkable experiment of sending a beam to and fro , half along and half across the line of earth motion ; and is , in the theory of it .
There ought to be an effect due to the difference between and , but he does not observe any .
Hence , either something else or the ether near the earth is with it , so as not to stream through instruments .
When is constant I see no way out of this , except disturbance at reflexion of some minute kind , one of the mirrors being and the other tangential to the drift ; but I perceive no adequate reason for suggestion ( see S60 ) .
It is true that if the earth is carlying the ether with it , will not be constant , at different distances from its surface ; but , then , the plane of CHELSON'S experiment was horizontal .
If the ether is dragged along near moving matter it like a viscous fluid , a velocity-potential must ( save by some exceptional theory , S 31 ) be abandoned ; as this would involve the curvature of rays striking the earth and much compli it seems a pity to abandon it until npelled by direct experimental dence recognize ethereal viscosity .
The experiment of MICHELSON'S raises a strong presumption in favour of such scosity , nevertheless his negative result is conceivably explicable in other ways : of which has been ingeniously suggested by Professor FITZGERALD , viz. , that the hesion force between molecules , and , therefore , the size of bodies , may * Phil. Mag Dec. , 1887 .
function of their direction of motion through the ether ; and accordingly that length and breadth of MTCHELSON'S stone supporting block were differently in what happened to be , either accidentally or for some unknown reason , satory manner .
26 .
There is already one experiment , which I have never seen criticised either t , ending in a sense precisely contrary to MICHELSON'S .
FIZLAU* observed the zation produced by a pile of plates , and .
considered that he had proved that azimuth of the plane of pola , rization varied with the direction of orbital motion of Earth , and hence that the ether was streaming past them .
If so , polarization reflexion is ] phenomenon known which is capable of showing a firsteffect of the general ethereal drift .
The experiment seems to me extremely but to be well worthy of repetition by other observers .
[ I believe that RAYLHiIGH'S objection to the experiment as performed by FIZEAU that the was unseen until an illegitimate or unsafe magnifying device was employed .
] Meanwhile I shall hope to examine the question of ether motion near moving in simpler fashion ( S33 ) .
Assuming for the present at the ether is not disturbed in a viscous manner the motion of gross matter through it , we can make the following assertions:\mdash ; Concerning Aberration .
27 .
A ray is straight whatever the motion unless there are and accordingly no irrotational currents of ether can divert a ray .
But , if observer is moving , the apparent ray will not be the true ray , and accordingly line of vision will not be the true ection of object .
In stationary ether , wave-normal and ray coincide , but the line of vision moving observer slants across both ( S 20 ) .
In a moving ether , wave-normal and ray enclose an , and line of depends upon motion of observer .
If the observer is stationary bis line of vision the ray ; if he moves at the same rate as the ether his line of vision is the norlDal .
he line of vision , in fact , depends on the motion of the observer , not at on the motion of the ether so long as it velocity-potential .
Hence nothing be simpler than the theory of aberration if this condition is satisfied .
A similar but more general condition ( to be obtained in the next section ) to secure the straightness of a ray whatever happens , or more generally that the path of a ray may be by reason of reflexion or refraction in a stationary the same it shall be in a moving one ; and readily accounts for the absence of effect on direction due to the general relative drift of the medium , whether in * ' Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys 1859 , vol. 57 , p. 129 .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
ence of dense matter ( water-filled telescopes ) otherwise ' Nature , ' vol. 46 , 98 ) .
However matter affects or loads the ether inside it , it cannot on this theory be said hold it still , or carry it with it .
The general ether stream must remain unaffected , only near , but inside matter , if rays are to retain precisely the same course as if were relatively stationary .
But it must be understood that the ethereal motion here contemplated is the general of the entire medium , or its correlative the uniform motion the matter conThere is nothing to be said against aberration effect being producible or modiby motion of parts of the medium , as , for instance , by sliding one portion of the past another portion , as by the artificial motion of slabs and other partitioned-off These matters are to some extent mixed up with the law cf refr ction , which consider later , but the general ideas concerning them have been already given .
tificial motion of matter may readily alter both the time ofjourney and the path of ( cf. SS7 and 52 ) .
Effect of placing Ordinary in the of ray in ing FRESNEL'S Lctw special case of a universal function .
28 .
Inside a transparent body light travels at a speed ; and the ether , which drifts at velocity making an angle with the ray , inside may be drifting velocity and angle Hence the equation to a ray inside such matter is This may be written ; second term alone involves the first power of the motion , and assuming that , and treating ' as a quantity too small for its possible variations need attention , the expression becomes ' being the time of travel through the same space when empty .
Now , if the time of urney and course of , however they be affected by the dense body , are not to be affected by reason of etherea ] drift through it chalI if it were so much empty space , it is necessary*that the erence of potential between two points should be the same whether the space between is filled with dense matter or not say , whether -path is taken through or outside a portion of dense medium ) ; other words ( calling the outside and ( the inside potential-function ) , in secure that shall not differ from by anything depending on the first power motion , it is necessary that shall equal , i.e. , that the inside and outside matter shall be the same up to a constant , or ; which for the case of drift along a ray is precisely hypothesis .
Another way of putting the matter is to say that to the first power of velocity and that the second or term must vanish .
29 .
Hence FRESNEL'S hypothesis as to the behaviour of ether inside equivalent to the assumption that a potential-function , , exists space , so far as motion of ether lone is concerned .
Given that condition , no -order interference effect due to drift can be from stationary matter by sending rays round any kind of closed contour , nor the path of a be altered by ethereal drift through any stationary matter .
As soon as matter is locally moved , however , its motion may readily produce effect , for it has no potential conditions to satisfy ; it may easily be moved in a contour .
Suppose it moves wit , velocity , always with the li ght , the relative of ether thereby caused in it must , as above , be , and so it may be said to carry the ether inside it forward with velocity ; for that is the amount which it affects the time of journey of a ray .
This does not mean that it with it any ether of space ; in fact , , it definitely means that it does not disturb the ether of space .
The equation to a ray in matter , subject to an independent ether drift , const .
30 .
It is noteworthy that almost all the observations which have been made negative results as to the effect of the Earth 's orbital motion on the ether are with complete connexion and complete independence between * [ The argument has here been slightly expanded since the .
was sent in to meet a inadequacy made by Dr. SCHUSTEB , to whom I am also indebted for an objection to the term " " potential\ldquo ; at first applied to this function .
As Professor FITZGERALD has observed , it is more than a velocity-potential , though it reduces to that when the medium is homogeneous , or when The text has been altered accordingly.\mdash ; July , 1893 .
] .
OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION If there is complete connexion , the ether near the earth is relatively and negative results are natural .
If there is complete independence , the is either absolutely stationary or has a velocity-potential , and the negative are thereby explained .
Ordinary astronomical aberration , and all other phenomena concerned with vision strata high above the earth , so far as they have been accurately observed , consistent with complete independence , but not with a viscous drag .
the other hand , negative result of Mr. MICHELSON'S attempt to detect a -order effect appears only to be consistent.with relative stagnation .
doubtful positive result , supposed to be obtained by FIZEAU ( S26 ) , on a change azimuth of the plane of polarization effected by transmission through oblique would , if established , support relative motion between earth and ether .
Is it possible for a sphere to move through a fluid without disturbing it and propagating rotary motion into space is not possible for an ordinary solid moving through an ordinary fluid .
Diffusion motion , or viscosity , is bound to occur .
possible for a vortex ring or assemblage of vortex rings , because at their there is no slip .
It is possible also if the sphere be a solidified portion of bhe which condenses in front and evaporates behind ( as already mentioned ) .
Professor STOKES seems say , that though not possible to retain a velocitywith any viscosity , yet with some kind of rigidity it may be -possible , deviations from irrotational motion go off into space with the speed of light .
so , the earth might possibly carry some ether with and yet a ray be straight .
do not see any way in which it can abstain from rotationally disturbing the fluid the same time it has to carry some with it .
Neither , I think , do Mr. HICKS or LARMOR , to whom I wrote .
KELVIN , however Papers , , has invented an ' ether or atically rigid incompressible ideal substance , which satisfies electromagnetic and magnetic boundary conditions , whose equations of motion are like of an elastic solid , and which yet permits locomotion of smooth solids filling in it , and which in general ' takes precisely the same motion for given motion of the boundary as does a frictionless incompressible liquid in the space showing the same boundary experiment now to be described proves , I think , that by the motion of ordinary of matter the ether is appreciably undisturbed , and raises a presumption in of the earth 's motion being equally impotent .
one thing in the way of the simple doctrine of an ether undisturbed by motion experiment , viz. , the absence of a second-order effect due to terrestrial ement through free ether .
This experiment may have to be explained away , ' as suggested above ( end of S25 ) .
NDQQcxcur .
Consequences of Rotational Motion .
32 .
If the condition of a velocity potential is not satisfied , it follows from in SS 23 , 24 , that a ray through an ether possessing rotational motion will not straight .
An ether in the slightest degree carried along in the neighbourhood of matter must by all analogy be called viscous .
Now a ray approaching a body in a viscous ether will in general be entering strata moving with speed , and will accordingly be in the direction of the motion ( S 52 ) .
negative or lagging real aberration would therefore occur , in addition to the positive apparent aberration caused by motion of observer ; and the actually perceived would be the resultant of the two .
The motion of an observer practically constant all over the earth , but the drift of ether strata would be at different aspects to the earth 's orbital motion .
Henoe the observed value of aberration ought to vary with the time of day , and with the latitude of the It becomes important to ascertain definitely whether the ether is viscous or whether moving matter can , in the smallest degree , drag or shear the ether in neighbourhood .
If it does , either the theory or the observations of astronomical ration must be overhauled .
But experiment is necessary to answer the question .
Details of xperiment to determine how much , if , effect on the Velocity of is exerted by the Motion of Gross Matter near the 33 .
After considering the motion of belts , of fly-wheels , and of double rotating oppositely , as in the Holtz machine , I decided to try a pair of plates together with a disk-shaped space between them , and to reflect a split beam light several times round in this space , half the light in one direction , and half the other , while the pair of plates were revolving at a high speed .
device for ootaining two equal beams of light travelling in opposite directions a contour , by means of a semi-transparent mirror , is plainly the most suitable for case where the effect of motion is to be observed , and where great length of path desirable .
Accordingly I sent to Mr. ADAM HILGER a strongly braced stout wooden hollow square , 38 inches in the side , internal measurement , and asked him to fit ( 1 ) with three plane mirrors , each inches , supported in a specified fashion , silvered on the front ; ( 2 ) with a fourth mirror , inches , supported rently , bevelled to at of its edges , and likewise fully silvered on It has been pointed out also by Professor FITZGERALD that , if such stratified motion top of a tower or mountain should exhibit aberrational effects when viewed from below .
This tesbed with greater accuracy than is possible in celestia,1 observations.\mdash ; July , 1893 .
] DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
( 3 ) with t.elescope and collimator holders at to the frame ; and ( 4 ) with a for a thinly silvered piece of optically plane glass , inches , at intersection of telescope and collimator .
drawings in Plate 31 sufficiently illustrate this part of the apparatus .
telescope and collimator were a pair ( -inch aperture 1 foot focal length ) given Univ. Coll. , Liverpool , by Mr. I. ROBERTS , F.R.S. They happened to have lenses , which was unnecessary , but otherwise were well adapted for the ; the slit or aperture of the collimator having especially convenient motions .
the eye end of the telescope , in addition to its own cross-wire eyepiece of low ( which was useful for setting ) , I adapted an excellent micrometer b.y COOKE , to a -inch telescope , to the College by Mr. GEORGE ROGERSON .
has a pair of independent micrometer heads , each divided into 100 parts , moving a vertical spider line and an .
It also has eyepieces of various powers : commonly used for the measurements here recorded being marked " " 200 showing images in simplest case , with three mirrors , and beam going once round optical The points to be imaged are the splitting points semi-transparent mirror O. Two such shown , one imaged by a dot , the other by a ring .
A represents the .
of images in mirror for the transmitted ray ; the image of these in second mirror ; the image in 3 .
Dashed letters mark the corresponding images for the reflected ray ; and the final of the semi-transparent mirror is to make coincide with so as to give the path of a beam of light from collimator to telescope round the as shown most simply in fig. 7 , it appears that , by reason of there being an odd DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
number of reflexions , the interfering rays do not trayel identical paths in directions , but only parallel paths .
* They enter the square at one point of the transparent mirror , and they leave it at another point , having meanwhile side by side .
I therefore designed a compensator , consisting of a plane piece optical glass , with its faces not parallel but inclined at a very small angle ; this mounted in a round cell , and made capable of measured rotation in its own plane .
introducing this normally into the beam , and rotating it into the right position , it supposed that accidental inequalities of path could be compensated ; and also that bands could be shifted by a measured amount .
HitheJ.to , however , no use of compensator has become necessary , and I have some doubts as to whether it act in the way supposed , or whether it would not merely double the number bands some positions .
The object of the } , or front mirror , shown in fig. 8 , is enable the light to more than once round the frame .
This mirror has to stand a little forward , advance of the square defined by the planes of the other three , and the amount which it stands forward regulates , at the same time , the width of the beam and number of.journeys it makes round the frame .
Everything else can be set .
If each beam is of breadth , and travels times round the frame ; if the of this fourth mirror is , and the amount by which it stands forward out square is ; then it is easy to see , by fig. 8 , that and ; also that the centre of the effective part of the semi-transparent mirror , .
the section of axes of telescope and collimator , is a fixed distance , viz. , behind square .
Hence the only thing that requires re-adjustment in order to vary the number times light goes round , is , the setting forward of the front mirror .
The bevel at the ends of this mirror is to enable the whole of its ( silvered ) to be , and to allow a beam which just misses it to graze past it into the telescope .
( See Plate 31 ) .
With the front mirror 4 inches long , and the centre of semi-transparent inches back from the as-inch square formed by the other three mirrors , the most adjustment has been to set the front mirror 1 inch forward .
A parallel beam on the centre of semi-transparent mirror , at , must now go three times the frame , rebounding three times from each of the three and twice from * This fact makes the bands more susceptible to some kinds of disturbance , e.g. , temperature or ; more stable fringes can be obtained by using an even number of a triangle instead of a square ( cf. ' ' vol. 46 , p. 500 , but then the light will not go more once round .
them simply cylindrical and unbraced at the centre hole .
The bevellin and clamping ought to afford margin enough to run them up to 6000 ( though the recommend no speed over 4000 ) ; but hitherto I have not spun them at more 3000 revolutions to the minute , and even at this speed , I now have a screen sentry-box of double boiler plate ( consisting of a small iron boiler cut in longitudinally and one half fitted inside the other ) for the observer , whose the plane of the disks , to look through .
The use of steel disks is sufficiently justified by the high speed they will stand , it may be also held that iron is the most probable great constituent of the earth ; further , that as there are so many other ways of experimenting on transparent opaque matter is appropriate in this experiment .
Since steadiness of rotation was very essential , I arranged to rotate the horizontally on a vertical shaft balanced on a steel in an oil vessel , and slightly flexible or elastic bearing near the top , so as to get the whole to sleep tee-totum ; and in order to any lateral strain , as of driving belt , to drive cally by a dynamo armature on the axle itself ( fig. 9 ) .
Messrs. MATHER and PLATT were good enough to undertake this part of the using their smallest size NIanchester dynamo as motor , with its axle set up on the armature being wound with less wire than , and being extra against force by steel wire .
The ordinary bearings of the dynamo with olling wicks inserted , and hence there is a little nicety required to get all bearings in a precise line .
It is also needful for the shaft to be vertical , to avoid attempt at gyroscopic precession .
Fearing lest some damage to the disks might occur from sudden application of great moment to the armature , especially by reason of some accidental jamb or sudden stoppage , I imitated a device employed in some milk-whirling machines , introduced a wooden cup or friction coupling between the top of the dynamo and the bottom of the disk spindle .
The cup being made hard wood grips rounded end of the disk spindle , and thus applies to it sufficient rotating but permits slip in preference to violent acceleration .
This plan is , I think , on whole .
and is certain]y a safeguard .
It may seem to spoil the idea , but the dynamo axle , which is supported at each end , and constrained to about rather a long axis , is to be regarded as a driving machine only ; the begins from the wood cup upwards .
The brass collar of the upper bearing is let an india-rubber cylindrical socket , so as to afford some very slight play ; and just the wooden cup is a safety collar or loose guide not touching the shaft .
My assistant , Mr. B. some trouble in getting and keeping the shafts accurately aligned , especially since any weal of the wooden cup tends to * The connexion between tenaciby and maximum peripheral speed for a ring is ; while , uuiform disk with a small hole jn it , EWING adapts GROS@NANN to show that it is where is density of ] , and is POISSON'S ratio .
See ' Nature , ' vol. pp. 462 , 514 , 534 .
A perforated steel disk , pierced with circles of 3 , 5 , 9 , 15 , and 25 holes , on the spindle , gives the speed quite accurately by the musica ] note from through it , or even a card held against it .
But the particular octave was checked by a wheel speed-counter ; and recently one of the mercury of Messrs. NAPIER BROS .
has been fitted on , and works very well for readings .
The current is supplied usually from about twenty small storage cells , happened have .
The regulation is effected by one of ROUSSEAU'S very carbon rheostats introduced into the armature circuit , the whole voltage of the being always supplied to the field magnet .
When the whirling machine arrived it was mouDted on a stone pier in the of my laboratory , a pier built up from the sandstone rock beneath , and it was down to timbers embracing the pier .
The disks were then put on , a pulley from the ceiling being convenient for raising and lowering them ; and after preliminary the battery was applied .
The field magnet took only 4 or amperes from the 20 cells with gas-engine going ; 10 amperes began to drive machine slowly , and 30 amperes gave a speed of 800 revolutions up to 1400 tions a minute , though bhe last figure was not reached before the disks were The volts actually on the terminals were from 20 to 30 .
The bearings , however , not at this time quite easy , and less power now sufficex Thus the numerous spins 1250 revolutions per minute taken during Ma.rch , lS92 , required , to maintain speed , 385 watts , viz. , volts and 14 amperes .
35 .
The optical parts were the first to arrive about June , , and were the ject of much preliminary experiment .
After a few alterations , such as planing the base of the telescope-holders to a better angle , there was no getting the light of an oxyhydrogen lantern to go three times round the frame then enter the telescope .
A dark room and strong light were useful for making adjustment , for the course of the ray could then be tracked without difficulty ; after the adjustments were made , a paraffin lamp could be substituted for the without too much enfeebling the image .
On now inserting in its place the bransparent mirror , a second image made its appearance .
Retnoving the lens of collimator , the two images of the " " slit or square aperture usually employed , seen very small and separate .
By adjusting the semi-transparent mirror , which moved the reflected image , the two were made to coincide .
The collimating lens then re-inserted , and the telescope focussed for infinity .
Bands at once They were usually lant , but when best defined became horizontal .
In these trials vertical bands were only got with difficulty ; they seemed to prefer horizontal .
Shaking the whole table on which the frame rested did not hurt but pressing gently on the wooden frame distorted them .
It was easier to get with light which had gone only once or twice round the frame , but there was no difficulty with three times round .
Introducing the wedge compensator and good quality and uniformly thick , it is extremely unlikely for anything like position to occur after so long ajourney , and often the useless image is not even field\mdash ; never with a high power .
I must say that the satisfactory behaviour of the optical arrangements is due skill of Mr. ADAM HILGER in working glass to true planes .
It is a difficult for he says they are apt to change after being taken off the tool .
He has times tried to improve on the first set of four mirrors he sent me , but without Those now sent usually have radii of curvature from three to eight hundred and are not at all satisfactory , though their curvature is too small to detect spherometer .
* Judging by their behaviour the original set must be very expect they are of superior , or older glass .
They are , of course , mounted so as strain them in the least .
38 .
To support the optical frame over the whirling machine , with the plane light between its two disks , a substantial wooden structure was erected , from piers coming up through the floor , entirely independent of any support whirling table or its stone pier .
To this the frame was fixed , and it was with a lid and floor , to box in the disks and make them easier to drive .
The a domed cavity for the top of the spindle ; the floor had a hole edged with thin rubber sheeting to permit tlJe spindle bearing to pass through air-tight transmitting vibrations .
In order that the semi-transparent plate might not be affected by the blast whirling plates , a couple of optical glass windows were inserted to screen it pletely .
I feared lest the blast would have some effect upon the mirrors but they were substantially backed by thick brass plates bearing steadily three accurate screws in a strong frame ( see Plate 31 ) , and I hoped it might not .
39 .
On the of July , 1891 , a first complete spin was taken .
The bands vertical , the cross wires were set on one of the dark ones , and the speed increased a shift , of three bands might have occurred .
The shift actually obsel.ved was and they recovered their old position very fairly when the motion ceased .
suspecting this shift to be spurious , I had the brushes of the dynamo later in the same day was able to take a reversed spin .
The shift was the same in amount and in the same direction .
The centrifugal force of the evidently did affect the mirrors .
Pressing their supporting plates by hand , shift could be got : the screws did not hold them with absolute firmness , seemed as if the end held by only one screw yielded more than the end held so as to produce a minute tilt .
To see if the pressure of the blast distorted the frame as a whole , or only mirrors , the box was made air-tight , like an organ chest , and air was pumped measure it by focussing a telescope on the image they give of an object at a distance .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
bellows : but this made very little difference to the bands , though the pressure centims. of water .
A water gauge was also used to measure the centrifugal of the blast : it was about 3 centims. of water , but was not easy to measure Evidently the blast acted mainly on the mirrors .
I contemplated a chamber , but shrank from some obvious difficulties , besides realizing that the air must give trouble anyhow .
I decided to risk interposing transparent in the beam .
some plate-glass protectors were cut and framed , one in front of each of the mirrors , the fourth at present being left still exposed , partly because it seemed to be affected by the wind , and partly because of the very narrow space between it and the disks .
that each -beam of light , in going three times round , has to go through piece of plate-glass twice at every reflexion , or eighteen transmissions altogether , of the emergent light was feeble , and the bands were distorted by imperin the glass .
Still they could be got clear , though curled , and the cross wires be set on them .
On 24th and 25th of July , spins at 1380 utionS a minute taken , and no shift so great as of a band could be.detected ; whereas , with light only going twice round , there might have been a shift of bands if the had been carried full tilt .
Hence it would appear that the ether was not round with the disks by so much as of their speed .
alignment of the shafts and other mechanical details were now attended to , so make possible higher speeds of rotation .
Fresh arrangements for holding and the semi-transparent plate ( the setting of which is a delicate matter ) were and the micrometer was more firmly fitted by a much longer tube into the All sorts of steadyings were attended to .
A pair of wires were laid to the Walker Engineering Laboratory , where Professor HEAL SHAW had a Crompton dynamo ; and so in December , 1891 , my assistant , Mr. DAVIES , got up to 2800 revolutions per minute .
amperes and 75 volts on the terminals ( 43 H.P. ) gave 2500 revolutions a with lid of box off .
With lid on , it went up to 2800 revolutions , but now the the box got quite hot , and a new difficulty arose from oil .
It crawled up in an ptible film , notwithstanding the traps arranged for it , and , flying from the surface of the lower disk , bespattered the mirrors and spoilt them .
elaborate oil-catchers , to spray the oil off before it got to the disks , were therearranged , and the disks were kept whirling many days to get rid of all traces of oil that had already soaked between the steel and the wrought-iron cheeks .
cured the oil difficulty , fresh and improved cover glasses for the mirrors were Mr. HILGER , one extra large and extra thin one for the front mirror included , were carefully framed and placed in position .
The light was then with and considerable skill on the part of DAVIES , got three times rounld through glasses , and , during Christmas , 1891 , spins were taken , but the highest speeds shook too much to give good observations .
At 1800 revolutions , a shift of band occurred .
Reversing the rotation , the shift was appreciably the same .
probably due to pressure of the blast on the frame itself .
Hence , ordered a light wooden circular drum to be put inside the frame to the air pressure , and also to keep hot air from .
the mirrors if possible .
DAVIES took out the old wooden socket from the axle , and made a new one to connect the two shafts .
We also now got the large boiler-plate the eye end of the observing telescope to protrude through .
It just shows back of fig. 11 .
Resilvered the mirrors , and got the optical arrangements more perfect .
ordered a much heavier mass of metal to whirl in subsequent experiments .
present , however , we go on with the steel disks .
40 .
During February , 1892 , the various preparations were made .
The a very satisfactory mahogany structure , octagonal ouiside and circular inside , long slit windows glazed with optical glass to catch the blast .
The drum was inside the frame , with -inch clear space all round between the two .
secured to the floor of the frame and joined with the lid so as to be fairly air- Still observed a shift , often of about band .
At speeds above 2000 the usually disappeared , from shaking .
Removed the lid of the frame for the air to and the shift was smaller .
It was specially noticeable that it lagged .
little time to reach its maximum , and when the disks stopped the bands recover for some time afterwards .
It was just as if a solid had experienced a and sub-permanent set .
All the effects were irreversible .
Gradually made the more air-tight and supported it by wooden bars from above .
A shift of band still got at a speed of 1000 , with the light three times round .
Strains in the still seemed to be transmitted somehow to the frame .
Made a saw-cut all round the floor of the frame , so as to leave the floor drum instead of on the frame ; also supplied a lid to the dlum , and supported this lid from long wooden girders , as shown in fig. 11 , keeping it and its everywhere out of contact with the fratne or its supports , except the posts from the tables .
Studied the bands more particularly and observed double hyperbolae system .
lso the great advantage of the middle *Quite recently ( March , I have taken a series of spins without the drum , and with glasses on except one over the from mirror , something being there necessary to protect from semi-transparent plate , which is of course extremely By this time , as described above , the bottom of the square frame had been remowed , being to the drum instead , and we now found that this floor must have been the cause of most of the For without it the blast produced no effect on any of the bands , and neither shift or concerbina occurred , up to a speed of 800 .
No motion of the middle band could be detected , the light twice ound .
It follows that the blast did not take effect on the mirrors , nor directly on the frame , but exhausting the air near the middle of the box it must have sucked and bent the floor iently to bein usually selected .
Then read their positions , and started a spin .
When at a given speed , I reset the wires and read them afresh .
Then stopped the reset them , and read once more .
Lastly , shifted the vertical wire till it coincided with the , and thus obtained interval between them , or the width of one band corresponding to yellow light .
This process was quite satisfactory , but it is not worth while to quote all readings ; for it was noteworthy that up to 800 revolutions no perceptible shift the middle band had occurred , but at that speed the first tremor set in , and there was supposed to be no contact anywhere between machine and frame , yet it transmitted somehow , through the earth at any rate , and sometimes produced effect obviously spurious .
Often the first spin of a set had the effect of things into place , and subsequent spins were better .
This was the case , for on March 16 , the following readings were taken .
March 16 .
Bands very clear and sharp .
The first spin was spoiled by a which set in at 800 revolutions and fogged the bands while it lasted ; when re-appeared they had been shaken aside and broadened .
No shift had occurred up 800 .
It was afterwards found that the semi-transparent plate was not held tightly enough , and that it was affected by tremor with just the above effect .
only the results of this first spin ; not the details .
First Spin .
The width of a band was when iotion a revs . .
divisions The middle band .
divisions , to the right .
This was very bad , but went on with another attempt .
Second Spin.\mdash ; Direction of motion as before , vi , such as to assist the half-beam .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
time the tremors which still occurred at about 800 , 1000 , and 1150 revolutions not seem to produce much effect .
following were the readings ; each wire read on its own micrometer head .
carry the vertical wire from its position 64 into coincidence with the a motion of 154 divisions ( viz. , about one revolution and a half of its screw ) .
experiment was satisfactory .
Its result was at first . . .
146 divisions .
Width of a band of yellow light when moving 158 at last 154 shift to right .
8 , , Displacement of middle band .
return on 4 \ldquo ; highest estimate of this shift is , therefore , , or say of a band .
lowest estimate is , or say of a band .
reversed the brushes and immediately took another satisfactory observation .
Spin.\mdash ; Direction that is , so as to help the transmitted beam .
carry the vertical wire from up to the at 14 needed 165 divisions .
The of this was DCCCXCIII .
at first . . . .
156 divisions .
Width of band of yellow light when moving at last . . .
165 Displacement of middle band shift to right 9 return on stopping 5 The highest estimate of this shift is or say of a band .
The lowest estimate of this shift is or say of a band .
And these figures are within the limit of error certainly , the same as those given the previous experiment with the spin reversed .
Taking this experiment alone , therefore , one may say that reversing the disks , from 21 revolutions a second one way , to 21 the other way , does not the virtual path of the light between them by so much as the of a wave length , or even by so much as the \mdash ; of a wave length .
Tested to see how many times the light was on this occasion going round the Found that it was going only twice .
Hence the length of path.of each half beam feet , since its path was approximately the periphery of a square two in the side .
The whole path of the two beams is therefore 32 feet .
A shift of of a wave length in this length of path means a fraction The perpendicular distance of the average light path from the axis of rotation 1 foot , hence the effective speed of the disks either way was feet per or say 260 feet a second altogether .
Compared with the speed of light this gives a fraction Comparing these two fractions we may conclude that the meaning of the experiment is that the ether is not carried forward by the spinning disks much as of their velocity .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
Modes of Testing Number of Light Journeys .
There are many ways of making sure how many times round.the frame the light One is to look into the telescope with a low-power eye-piece , or none all , the semi-transparent plate is inserted and to give a wide opening to the often also removing its lens .
Three or more images can then be seen in parts of the large field , and it is easy to see which is the one near the centre .
tipping the front mirror to and fro , the image which has been only once ( if visible ) remains unaffected ; the one which has been twice round moves ; hree-times-round one moves twice as much ; and so on .
altering adjustments and passing the successive images in review , it is not thus to work up to the high numbers .
But on the specification of these it is to have some check. .
The best check can be got , with in position and visible , by passing an opaque strip slowly in front of one of the mirrors the eclipses at the telescope .
If the semi-transparent plate is inserted in these eclipses occur in pairs , with shadows moving oppositely ; if not , they singly .
( A very narrow strip passed not quite close to the mirror may show single shadow double .
Too broad a strip will , of course , merge a pair of shadows times round naturally gives two pair of eclipses on the front mirror , and pair on each of the others .
ithout the cover-glasses the light can be got many times round , but , when they the faintness of the light which gets through all the surfaces makes it unwise at more excursions , because the definition and visibility of the bands suffers in proportion .
In fact , the superior sharpness of the twice-round bands perhaps than compensates for the advantage of the half-as-long-again path belonging to three-times-round set .
cover-glasses are , of course , not set absolutely vertical , else the enormous of reflexions from their surfaces would confuse everything .
way of testing the order of the image in use is to tilt the front mirror so broaden the bands by a measured amount , and then to imitate or compensate by tilting one of the other mirrors .
The angle of tilt with one of these be of the tilt of the front one .
three screws against which they each press all have fifty turns to the inch , and it is possible to apply this test whenever the eclipse method happens to be For instance , of a ] ution of the single screw of the front broadened the bands till one occupied nearly the whole ( with the higheye-piece that happened to be on ) .
This meant of an inch advance of of a plane of 10 inches base , or an angular tilt of radian , or 40 seconds Tilting the back mirror about gave the same effect , showing that there as many reflexions on it as on the front one , and that the light was going twice round .
General Arithmetic of a Shift .
43 .
It may be convenient for easy future reference to write down the any observed reversible shift under given circumstances .
An odd number of reflexions must be used if the light is to be sent many round , hence triangles and pentagons are excluded .
An even number of has the advantage that it makes the paths of the two half-beams identical merely parallel ( cf. fig. 8 ) : but it does not seem readily feasible to get the light more than once with an even number of reflexions .
The square or hexagon are fore the natural figures for the path of light .
Take a square , whose side is , as mean path of the light .
Then its perpendicular distance from the centre of is ; and it is the perpendicular distance which is important , for , since the of light at any point has to be resolved perpendicular to the radius vector , we precisely the same tangential component everywhere as exists at the point M. Let the disks revolve with angular velocity , and let the shift of the middle be band-widths of a particular wave-length .
Then , if the light goes times each way , with velocity where is the fraction of the velocity of matter which is imparted to the between the disks , the quantity to be determined by observation of Thus The limit of speed of a given material ( see S34 ) is given by something like hence the limiting value of , observable by this method , is .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
30-ton steel as the material , this gives as the smallest observable value is fairly easy to make sure that is not greater than .
In my apparatus 2 feet or 60 centims. , and the light may go three times round with the coveron ; hence the limiting determination of ether-drag that can be made with it arranged is , unless the setting of the micrometer wires can be relied on than to the of a band , or unless the steel will safely stand more 80 tons to the square inch .
the larger the square the better , and a enough square might show earth 's rotation effect , only it is difficult to see how to imitate the effect of and reversing the rotation , at least with the unwieldy size of frame Testing for Cause of Slight ) ersibte S The following experiments tend to show ( and do distinctly show in opinion ) such shift as is observed is independent of the width of the bands , and therefore absolute shift caused by shake or strain ; very likely by a strain caused by a for its effect often dies out slowly .
18th March .
Light going three times round .
spin , in direction to help transmitted beam .
ometer wires set and moved as before ( fig. 12 ) , but only the results of the quoted .
at rest . . . .
114 divisions .
Width of yellow band while revolving 1200 times a minute 159 at rest again . . .
184 shift to the ight 6 of middle band return on stopping 5 that the front mirror was too near the drum , probably touchin , hence the widening of the band .
Moved it back a bit and tightened up the nuts semi-transparent plate .
again with much narrower bands , and continued spinning and stopping without intermission , all in the same direction .
may be worth while to quote the actual readings of this set .
The wires were set stoppage , and likewise during each spin while the speed was kept at 1260 per minute .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON RRATION PROBLEMS .
Reversed .
Direction to help reflected beam .
Results:\mdash ; shift was a trifle greater than before , but so was the tremor .
Another shift same day gave a shift of 9 and a return of 12 .
The effect of the tremor seemed Since such shift as is observed is apparently independent of the width of the it is manifestly well to reduce its apparent significance by having the bands broad .
It might be doubtful how far accuracy of setting could be accomplished the spider line in the midst of a very broad band .
To test this the following were made .
of Setting of Micrometer Wire .
bands were broadened , by tilting the back mirror a little , until it took two of a micrometer head to carry a wire from one to the next .
The light going three times round , and the cover were on .
The vertical wire was carefully set in the centre of the middle band ( it is always easy to tell the band , even without the colour of the others , by their concertina-like motion and from it when the corner of the frame is pressed ) and the was set as near as on the yellow of the first band to the left .
The position of this colour was well defined as when the light only went twice round , especial]y when the disks spinning ; neither was the middle band quite so clear then as when they were It is the setting of the vertical wire in the middle band that is really Readings of both micrometers being taken , the wires were displaced at and then re-set and re-read .
This was done several times .
The following the results of successive re-settings on the same bands .
DR. OLIVER ON ABERRATION 7/ 7 with direction helping the reflected beam .
Reversed the brushes , and took a spin in the opposite direction Second , direction helping the transmitted bean ] .
Something happened that prevented the last readings from being taken .
Notice the yellow band seemed to have slowly returned to its old position in the between the two spins .
These slow recoveries are frequent .
Here the -length , or width of band , corresponded to 169 divisions at first , and the first was only two divisions ; but the shift was spurious , for instead of eturning , it on , or at least stood still .
The small shift ( 4 divisions ) in the same direction served on reversal was also no doubt spurious .
I feel sure that I have never served a genuine reversible shift of the middle band due to rotation .
Now the light was going three times round the frame , and if the ether had been round full speed with the disk there would have been a shift of bands , or divisions at each rotation , or over 1000 divisions in whereas not more than divisions at the outside were seen , and they might readily be spurious .
In saying they were spurious , I mean not that a shift so small as this could not be served , but that there was amply sufficient tremor to account for it The entire absence of perceptible at about 800 revolutions , before any portant tremor has occurred , is to me ] the most conclusive fact ; and I feel fident that either the ether between the disks is quite uJlaflected by their motion , if affected at all , that it is by something less than the ndth part .
At the time , so far as proof is concerned , I should prefer to assert that THE OCITY OF LIGHT BETWEEN TWO STEEL PLATES MOVING TOGETHER JN THEIR OWN AN INCH APART IS NOT INCREASED OR DIMINJSHED By SO MUCH AS OF THEIR DR. OLIVER ON ABERRATION Effect of a different Entire Medinm 48 .
If , instead of air or vacuum , the whole medium contemplated in fig. 4 is the velocity .
of light is reduced from to ; wherefore the aberration will change too , unless the telescopic velocity be suitably reduced , or unless the medium is constrained to move in some compensatory manner .
If the new medium is just as stationary as the old , only the receiving telescope , or line of vision , moves , then the aberration angle will become times as great as before .
Minute Influence of Motion of Medium on 49 .
But if the medium , instead of being stationary , is drifting in some direction with velocity , then , perhaps , its motion may have some effect on the aberration .
For , though a drifting medium cannot by itself cause , yet it may modify it when otherwise produced .
And this we shall find true in the second order of minutiae .
For , in the drifting medium , the rays differ from the wave-normals by the angle , such that and the velocity of light is .
Hence an aberration caused by motion of telescope at speed and angle , which would naturally be becomes higher powers .
The conditions most favourable for observing the second term are when the tele@cope moves across , and the ether moves along , the ray .
Unless the ethereal velocity near the earth were very great , much greater than the 's orbital velocity , ib would be hopeless to look for this term , as it would require the fixing of a star 's position to the five-hundredth of a second , which must be considered quite impossible .
The effect is connected with the slight alteration of focal length of the telescope ( the difference between and ) , and may be regarded as a secondary sort of Doppler effect ( S20 ) .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON rION PROBLEMS .
In practice , when the telescope is being carried along by the earth at angle the light , , it is customa1y to assume the medium stationary , in which case the first term .
alone ; or we may assume that the ether is more or less along by the earth , in which case , and the second term attains its value , , when the is .
But even if is as great as , the most case , uldess the ether has a proper motion of its own , this only means a in a star 's lbsolute position of 00 ; so it is hopeless look for a motion of medium this way . .
The experiment of filling a telescope tube with water as suggested BOSCOVICH , and tried by AIRY , and more exactly by aims at a motion different from that above contemplated .
It aims at moving a portion only of ether in a partitioned-off region of space .
It is easy to show that on theory no different } ) errational .
effect can be thus observed than is observed with air telescope ; in fact , FRESNEL himself , in his original letter to ARAGO ( S4 ) plated this experiment , and predicted its negative result , but it may be instructive enter its consideration in a geometrical fashion .
of Motion combined with of Portion of the Medium .
So long as the whole medium is changed or moved , we have seen what there on aberration .
Motion has no effect on it , it drifts the wave-normals but cannot the rays ; increased without motion increases it .
But if the ray has to pass a bounding surface , and if the change or motion occurs only on one side of surface , then circumstances are different .
If , for instance , the source sends a ray SA , which would have gone to change of medium may carry it to , while a drift of the medium , cal.rying A to and to , will slant the ray along AE ( fig. 13 ) .
It is , therefore , just possible for a drift to neutralize a refraction , and to let a enter a dense medium without bending .
To this end the drift must equal CB the ray will then be straight .
cbives Neerlandaises ' , vol. 3 p. 180 .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
is the necessary velocity of drift ; so .
bending will be usual or unusual according as is less or greater than this .
of course it is far less .
now suppose the obliquity has been caused by the aberration necessary to a ray to a telescope ( moving with velocity u ) which except for motion would be straight at source ; for instance , the telescope whose position was when started from and has moved to AM when light has reached ; in other let be an aberration ; then MB AB when a medium is inserted in the telescope , or say between the two the time required for the shorter light journey , , is longer , and the may get carried as far as O , where ME bring the ray to the eye-piece at the right moment , must drift to , and the henian centre A to A in the same time .
So if is the ethereal velocity able to the effect of the dense medium , and to leave the aberration what it was , CE .
this condition is satisfied , the observed aberration caused by any motion of a Dll .
OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
telescope will be independent of the medium inside it , although the course through it is really altered [ viz. , from AB to .
The aberration angle in MAB ; in the medium is .
The diminished velocity of light is exactly pensated by a virtually diminished speed of telescope with respect to the ether it ; and so a steadily telescope sighted on a star can remain parallel to with whatever medium it may be filled.\mdash ; July , 1893 .
] 52 But , by moving a portion of medium tively to the observer , say by a glass disk , and iooking through it axially near its circumference , where its is , we are looking through a moving stratum of thickness , and a parallel shift in that case be experienced .
The angle is , or for glass about ; and the shift is times this angle , viz. , To give a shift of 1 micron a thousandth of a millimetre centims. , with a centims. , would require a velocity second kiloms .
per second .
My , at 3000 ] ntions a minute , 50 periphcral speed of metres per second , so the thickness of glass needed to give 1 micron is ) metres .
To-and-fro be used to diminish the quired thickness .
More discussion of Doppler Effects .
53 .
There is rather a nice point to be considered in connexion with change , what the pitch , as perceived , really depends on .
The coarse statement of tion candidates that it depends on wave-length , or on the frequency of source , is of course not true ; it depends on the frequency of disturbance receiver .
This fact is suggested by listening or looking through a different wherein the wave-length is quite different ; though , indeed , it must be the medium in ear or eye cannot be changed .
It is proved ( for the case DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION by travelling towards the source , when the observed rise of pitch must be caused frequency of arrival , the wave-length remaining unaltered .
when we consider effect observed in a cope , there might possibly be according as its essential part was a grating or a it may be argued that a grating , consisting as it does of a set of pertures of width , must deviate and disperse in proportion to wave-lengt , ; and hence that be supplied with crowded waves , either by holding it to an approaching or by immersing it in a denser medium , or in a mediun } flowing from it source , it must act as if coarser relatively to the waves , and so deviate and them less .
although this is a simple and plausible statement it is only half the truth .
better examine the problem particularly ( S56 ) , for it is a curious mixture of effect and aberration , but at present it will suffice say : is the deviation caused by a given grating for a given fixed source of frequency so that if the source be approaching at the rate , the time-interval between successive phases is diminished in the proportion ; and accordingly .
be the grating that is advancing towards a fixed source , the time interval the arrival of like phases is likewise diminished , but in the ratio ; .
noteworthy that between and there is a minute difference of the aberration magnitude ; be plunged into a different medium , the velocity of advance is and y- T. if both source and grating are stationary , but the medium flowing from one other , or ( what is the same thin ) if source and are moving at the same chasing each other through a stationary medium , the velocity and the waveare affected together , and No Doppler effect , therefore , is produced by a stream of medium flowing source and receiver if relatively fixed , i.e. , if they be moving together through stationary medium .
We may in short summarise thus : Source approaching shortens waves , Receiver approaching alters virtual velocity , Medium alters wave-length and velocity together , in an compensatory manner .
Steady Motion of Medium ccmnot cause Doppler B'ffect .
54 .
Before abandoning the present consideration of the Doppler effect , let tinctly assure ourselves of the important fact that no steady motion of the can change the pitch even infinitesimally , unless source and receiver are relatively to each other .
Let source recede with velocity the waveapproaching us at their ordinary velocity V are longer than usual , receiver approach with same velocity , then it sweeps up per second a of waves So , without relative motion of source and receiver , there is no Doppler however small .
But the easiest way of assuring ourselves of the impotency of a steady wind pitch , is to remember that such a wind cannot bring waves at a greater than they are elnitted from the source .
Gusts will cause wailing , but a steady has no effect on pitch .
This is true also on a corpuscular theory , though for a slightly different For , consider a machine-gun receding and firing at regular time , it will seen that , while the distance between the bullets is the same as if it were the speed with which they travel is ; and , if a target is chasing the gun the same pace , the number caught in a second will be OLIVER LODGE ON RRATION PROBLEMS .
of Medium on Doppter Effect .
55 .
But finally examine if wind has any on pitch when source and are not moving at the same pace , i. e. , when ppler effect certainly exists .
Let source recede with speed , receiver advance with speed ?
) , and leb the medinm flow from source towards speed ( or in ( direction at ) ) ; the argument is the same ) Then speed of wave is Length of is The number caught per second is The medium does , , enter into expression for the dinnry Doppler effect : though in a very subordinate manner , by the velocity of light .
It cannot the effect , but it can it when vise produced .
The simplest plan of detecting this effect of a would be by some direct observation of the velocity of light itself ; either nultaneously fronn stars in opposite directions , or in a given direction at six ' interval .
No terl.estrial must be used as source , because it would be moying at practically the same as receiver .
Hence , for a six-months ' experiment , the Jupiter 's satellites method determining the velocity of light would seem the best plan ; and , if observations be exact enough , one couId thus get ' so determine the unknown speed of t , he ether , the solar system .
simultaneous aberrational method , such as comparing the nberl.ation of two apart , will not work well ; for if they be at to the apex of earth 's there be no discrepancy , while if one be toward that and the other from it there will be no aberration .
DR. OLIVER ON ABERRATION Now and are very nearly equal ; showing that diffraction really does depend waye-length simply , in spite of motion of grating , so far as minutiae of the first order are concerned .
But then this , will not be the direction appreciated by the observer ; for the motion of his telescope will cause ordinary aberration , since his motion is partially across the diffracted rays .
Not to confuse the figure , I indicate the telescope OP further along the the light is travelling along it eyepiece will have time to move to , such that Hence , is parallel to the axis of the telescope which receives the , and be called the apparent or perceived ray .
The angle at which it is inclined to the grating-normal may be called Now is less than , and is very nearly the ssme as if -length had been really shortened to AD , instead of Draw BE a tangent to the AD circle , and we get the wave-front to this shortened wave and a stationary grating ; while AE is the ray belonging thereto , the inclination of which to the grating-normal we may call Now , plainly , AE and are very nearly parallel , but not quite ; there is it second-order difference between and , which may be readily calculated .
Perhaps the simplest way of displaying the result is to introduce the abel.ration POQ such that and to write \mdash ; ; ( Or one might write ) The difference between the apparent ray and the shortened wave-length is approximately , is probably quite too small to be detected .
The point of the whole thing is that ting has tloe or stationary , but that the motion of the observing telescope causes which necessitates very nearly the same of ibs direction as if the aves were really shortened in simple proportion to the motion .
The Doppler effect caused by motion of observer is , therefore , essentially a case of common ) tion .
DR. OLlVER L ON ABER R PROBLEMS .
Now , as there is no hypothesis or difficulty whatever about the aberrational of a moving telescope , that has been said of a grating applies , at least broadly , prism .
ct of Motion on tloe Dispersion of a Prism .
5 The deviating power of a prisnl depends on its relative refractive index respect to the surrounding medium ; hence , in this sense , its deviation is affected by the length of the waves with which it is supplied .
Its dispersive power , however , is not a superficia ] , but a deep-seated , depending on its internal structure ; and , since no variation of outside medium wave-length , the dispersive power of a prism may be assulned for given waves .
It follows that the dispersion caused by a given prism , in different media , is simply proportional to the mean deviaGion in each case for kind of light .
But what about the effect of motion If we can assume that he prism interferes with the ether as little as grating has been supposed to do , then all that has been said of the grating true of the prism .
If we supposed the prism to modify the free ether inside we should lave to modify this statement .
On the hypothesis of FRESNEL , the free ether is not supposed to be affected ; and experiments directed to the matter , by the effect of prism chasing a source at the same have resulted in finding this effect , in accordance with the above statement .
Hellae it must be allowed that a Doppler effect observed by a prism depends on wave-length , but apparently on frequency , just as is the case with a grating .
It must be noticed that the observation of a Doppler effect by a prism entirely on dispersion ; i.e. , on waves of different length being affected But prisms can be constructed whose dispersion is corrected and neutralized .
itchromatic prisms , if perfectly achromat.ic , will treat waves of all sizes alike ; accordingly , the shortening of the waves from a moving source will not produce effect .
Achromatic prisms will behave to terrestrial and to extra-t.errestrial i.e. , to relatively stationary and relatively moving sources , in the same way .
ARAGO used an achromatic prism on a star when he showed that refractive was unaffected by motion of the earth .
* In criticising ARAGO'S experiment MASCART forgets this , and thinks he ought to have perceived a Doppler MASCART used a terrestrial source and an ordinaly dispersive prism , when he ienced t same negative result .
sent light both ways through his *BARINET , 'Comptes Relldus , ' vol. .
ARAUO , 'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys. vol. , p. 180 ( 1853 ) .
, 'Phil .
Trans. ' ( 1868 ) , vol. 158 , p. 532 ; also 'Ency .
Brit. ' " " Ether HOBK , 'Archives Neerlandaises ' ( 1869 ) , vol. 4 , p. 443 .
MASCART , 'Annales de Nornlale , ' voIs .
( 1872 and 1874 ) ; Professor MAscAltT here describes a number of experiments which he has made as to the effect of motion on most of the phenomena of optics .
DR. OLIVER LODGE ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
therefore neutralized all refraction , except what was entirely caused by motion , he proved that this latter was BABINET , HOEK , and MASCART , all a modified form of the same experiment an interferential manner , and likewise got a negative result .
If we wish to follow out the ether motion through a prism into groatcr detail we can the prism advance with velocity to meet the waves , and let the ethel in it be carried forward with , then the virtual velocity of the li towards the prism , and insidc the prism is ; on ordinary notions of refraction the new index will be ; on FRESNEL'S hypothesis , equals This seems to give a sort of theory of dispersion for the case:\mdash ; .
Effects cvith at Angles to Drift .
of Further Discussion of the Theory Mr. MICHELSON'S Experiment .
The experiment of MICHELSON , already referred t , o in S25 , has to do with the of a plane mirror sending a ray straight back upon itself Consider the aspect mirror necessary to do this ; first , for the case of a moving source in a statlonary ( fig. 15 ) .
be initial position of the source , throwing off a wave-front to , and itself to , so that ; and SM now be reflected at so as to trave ] to , and reach it the time as then ; and Hence wherefore , bisects the angle , or the angles of incidence and reflexion precisely equal , and the required mirror is normal to , but is not tangential to wave-front .
Let be the images in this mirror of , and with centre of radius QM cutting the wave-front in ; MN is the mirror able light ray back on the moving lrce .
A stationary observing telescope will observe the source along ; one with the source will observe it along , that is , in its true direction at moment vision .
The colour will change by the amount , as already said ; and , as any possible interference effect , the fringes will shift by an amount depending on which gives very approximately .
There is , therefore , always a lag of phase caused by the motion , which cannot made negative , or even zero , but which is a minimum when the motion is across line of light , and a maximum when along it ; being , indeed , twice as great for along as it is for motion across .
Supplementary angles give the same effect , One may express the fact by saying that the virtual distance the light has to is .
or , instead of SQ .
DR. OLTVER ON ABERRATION PROBLEMS .
Case when the Mirror Moves too .
It is erved that in this investigation the mirror has been supposed tationary respect to the medium , it is therefore possible , if the mirror is moving at the rate as the source , , if they were both fixed and the medium streaming both , that the circumstances may be a little different ; because since the whole of wave-front does not strike quite simultaneously , there may be time for some effect occur during .
period of contact , short though of course it is .
Not even for normal is the time of impact of a finite portion of wave infinitesimal ; for even the source is infinitely distant ( or when a collimating is used ) it has to be that the waves are not normal to the rays in a moving medium , and that , when the incidence of the ray is normal and the medium movement not the wave is inclined to the surface , a minute , but possibly important , angle .
But in MICHELSON'S arrangement the ray is not exactly normal on the tangentially mirror , but is inclined so that the mirror is precisely parallel to the wave ; and so the time of contact is nothing on either mirror .
The statement of theory , therefore , proceeds as follows , without apparent error .
Let be and remain the position of the source , and let a mirror MN ( fig. 15 ) be normal to , so as to send a back upon itself , when eyerything is , in time It is required to find if any tilt must be given to the mirror to send the ray back itself when the medium is moying , and whether a different time will be taken the journey .
While light travels to the wave-front 's has drifted to it strikes the mirror obliquely and is reflected as if coming from ; it would travel towards but for the drift .
The drift will carry it precisely to if being the time of the return journey ; just as is the time of the outward journey .
Hence , no tilt whatever is required by the mirror , but it reflects the ligh , back itselfjust as when the medium was stationary , and the distance really travelled exactly the same as it .
The velocity of the light is , however , different the out and in journeys , for before ( S59 ) .
61 .
In the actual experiment , as performed for instance by MICHELSON , it is natural use a collimator and plane waves , and since his null result is very surprising and it may b'e as well to examine whether the introduction of the lens pro-

