326 Mr. B. Lewis on the Lymphatic [ June 21 hexyl bromide , which was converted into the acetate and the alcohol .
The latter yielded on oxidation acetic acid and normal butyric , showing that it is methylbutyl carbinol .
The boiling-points of the different compounds are as follows : Formula .
Boiling-point .
Bromide . . .
\lt ; -4^9 1 . .
CH3J j-CHBr 143'-145 ' Acetate . . .
c4h9 ] [ .
CH .
0C2H30 146'-150 ' CH3 J Alcohol ... c4iV CTV | .
CH .
OH 136'-140 ' II .
Normal Heptane yielded the following products:\#151 ; .
Bromide . . .
\lt ; W1 ... CHJ [ CHBr 165'-167 ' Acetate ... CsHn 1 - .
CH3j [ ch.oc2h3o 169'-171 ' Alcohol . . .
C , HU ] ... CH3 J l CH .
OH 155'-157 ' The heptyl alcohol is methylpentyl carbinol , because on oxidation it was resolved into acetic acid and normal pentylic acid .
As result of \lt ; this investigation it appears that by the action of bromine on normal paraffins only secondary bromides of the general formula CHI n ( Iff1 I C-HBr are f'rme(ij but not a trace of a primary bromide , or that the methyl groups which are present in these hydrocarbons , and which are readily attacked by chlorine , are not touched by bromine at all .
In addition to the secondary bromides other products are formed which , on distillation , decompose either completely or are resolved into hydrobromic acid and non-saturated hydrocarbons , which are probably olefines .
By continuing this research I hope to ascertain the nature of these non-volatile products .
II .
" The Relationships of the Nerve-cells of the Cortex to the Lymphatic System of the Brain .
" By Bevan Lewis , F.R.M.S. , Assistant Medical Officer at the West Riding Asylum .
Communicated by Dr. Terrier , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1877 .
[ Plates 1 \amp ; 2 .
] The great importance attached to an accurate appreciation of the relationships existing between the nerve-cells and the lymphatic and vascular systems in the brain cortex will be recognized by all who are engaged upon investigations in cerebral pathology , and cannot be well 377 .
] System of the Brain .
verestimated .
These anatomical relationships have had great attention estowed upon them by continental histologists , and more especially hose of the German school .
Amongst the more important subjects in / Inch their acumen has served to enlighten us we may take , as an illustration , the demonstration of the intimate connexion existing between he lymph-sacs and perivascular channels of the brain , and the success-ill injection of the former by Obersteiner* .
Although several years ave elapsed since the publication of Obersteiner 's views , the accuracy f his statements has not received that appreciation and acknowledg-aent by English observers which the importance of the subject impera-ively demands , nor does it appear that a critical examination of these ; pericellular spaces " has been instituted with the object of finally etting the question at rest .
In his work on this subject Obersteiner 's views are expressed so dearly , and the illustrations are so definite , that little doubt as to their iccuracy can , I think , remain on the mind of the unprejudiced reader .
That his views have not been generally accepted amongst us , I infer rom the frequent confusion traceable in the writings of many patho-ogists in this country with regard to the relationships of the nerve-cells \gt ; f the cerebral cortex to theimmedia te environment , from the dubiousness expressed by others as to the nature of these spaces when observed ay them , and , finally , to the error committed by others of referring them to an entirely different source to that which Obersteiner claims for them .
These are the reasons which have induced me to describe my own investigations on the subject and state my opinion , which , on most points , is strictly in conformity with that of the German observer\#151 ; full opportunities having been afforded me for confirming his statements and gauging their value in pathological researches .
Existence of Pericellular Lymph-sacs the Brain .
My attention was first attracted to the significance of these spaces by ( a ) the prevalence , in certain morbid conditions , of numerous nuclei arranged in definite directions around the nerve-cells , ( 6 ) the presence of undoubted lymph-corpuscles in clear spaces around the cell , and ( c ) the appearance of pericellular spaces in healthy brain occasionally where the cells appeared perfectly normal and certainly not atrophic .
The arrangement of nuclei , above alluded to , is at times most striking , and is especially well seen in the larger nerve-cells of the third layer and the still larger cells found at a lower level in the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions of man , which have been termed giant cells .
These cells are undoubtedly normal constituents of the cortical layers , and to a great extent constant elements in these regions .
I have represented one of these great nerve-cells in Plate 2 .
fig. 4 .
To * " IJeber einige Lymphraume im Gehime " ( Sitzb .
cl. k. Akacl .
d. Wissensch .
1 Abtb .
, Jan.-Heft , 1870 ) .
328 Mr. B. Lewis on Lymphatic [ June 2 ' appreciate the significance of this arrangement of nuclei around the cells it will be necessary shortly to consider the actual cell-elemen which enter into the formation of the non-nervous portion of tl neuroglia .
These elements are usually stated to consist of free nuel and distinct nucleated cells .
The nuclei of the latter are said by Meynert to have a diameter of 9 \#151 ; 10yu ( = -009 to *010 millim. ) , a measuremer which coincides with my own .
I find these last-mentioned cells posset an extremely delicate protoplasm , so readily affected by reagents that i is easily altered in appearance or entirely masked from view .
Withi these cells two nuclei are frequently seen .
These cells , in certain morbi conditions , proliferate freely , and throw out delicate and anastomosin branches in all directions , assuming the form of " Deiter 's cells .
" The are undoubtedly connective elements , and by this morbid proliferate they produce a true sclerosis of the cortex ; such a condition is del neated in Plate 2 .
fig. 5 .
This morbid growth of the nucleated cell in th neuroglia is alluded to by Meynert as bearing a relationship to arrest i the discharge of the perivascular lymph , as would occur in hyperaemi and also in degeneration of the lymphatic glands of the head and necl I have myself frequently observed these changes in tuberculosis an senile atrophy of the brain .
It must be borne in mind that such a growtl must still further impede the current in the perivascular channels by tb intertwining of their numerous branches around the walls of the delicat capillaries of the cortex .
It is important that a distinction be drawn clearly between these cell ; and the other nuclear elements referred to .
These , the so-called fret nuclei , are not in reality free nuclei ; for when examined carefully in tht fresh state they are found to have a slight delicate investment of proto plasm , which becomes , quite destroyed by subsequent methods of preparation .
These nucleus-like bodies resemble , as regards size , form structure , and reaction to staining and chemical reagents , those which are found universally scattered through the brain , and which mosi observers , I believe , accept as representatives of the connective-tissue series .
Now these elements appear to me to be disposed in three definite situations :\#151 ; a , irregularly in the neuroglia framework ; b , regularly around the nerve-cells ; c , following directly the course of capillaries .
In the two last positions they are connected with the lymph-walls surrounding the blood-vessels and nerve-cells , and I am disposed to regard them as endothelial elements lining these channels .
The spindlecell of the deepest cortical layer in the frontal region appears to be especially prone to the growth of these attendant satellites , which accumulate occasionally in such numbers as to form superincumbent heaps , almost concealing the nerve-cell from view .
Frequently the capillary is so faintly stained that we can trace its * Strieker 's ' Histology ' ( Sydenham Society ) , vol. ii .
S77 .
] System of the Brain .
jurse alone by the line of nuclei running parallel to its wall , and within hich the elongated nucleus proper to the vascular coat becomes now ad again apparent .
Identical as these nuclear bodies are in appearance their site pro-ably betokens far different functional endowments appertaining to ach , the extravascular being truly connective , whilst those lining the emphatic channels develop into lymph-corpuscles , and correspond , in act , to lymphatic endothelia .
These connective and endothelial elements aving a separate and wholly distinct destiny , also differ inter se in re-ative number and distribution , the connective elements being , in con-iitions of health , a constant element , the endothelial subject to diverse \gt ; hysiological influences , by which their appearance and proportions may \gt ; e greatly modified .
The recognition of these connective and endothelial dements , and the varying conditions imposed upon them by their distinct unctional endowments , is of essential importance when we are dealing with the morbid brain .
Further examination sufficed to prove that this arrangement of nuclei regularly around the nerve-cell in the human subject , in which epilepsy md other morbid affections were present before death , was a condition frequently met with in the lower animals as apparently a perfectly normal state , and the brain of the healthy cat afforded peculiarly favourable opportunities for studying their distribution and significance .
Here it was most satisfactorily demonstrated to my mind that the .
pericellular nuclei were arranged along the boundary of a perfectly clear space .
This space completely enclosed the nerve-cell and gradually tapered off and disappeared towards the apex process of the pyramids .
The remaining processes ( lateral and basal ) of the nerve-cell cross the intermediate space , passing through the boundary wall of the enclosing sac , the cell being in reality suspended by its branches within this pericellular cavity .
The appearance of these spaces will be greatly modified by the method of preparation adopted , the thinness of the section , and various physiological and pathological conditions existing before death .
On reference to the sketch ( Plate 1 .
fig. 1 ) which represents the ascending frontal convolution in a young cat , the section being taken from the gyrus immediately in front of the crucial sulcus , we find four nerve-cells surrounded by these clear spaces which , in this case , are widely distended .
One of these pericellular sacs also exhibits the arrangement of nuclear elements above alluded to .
In most cases the outline of the cell is closely followed by the enclosing sac , and from this cause the form of the pericellular sac is subject to great diversity of contour .
: Recent examination of the cerebral cortex in sections cut on the freezing microtome has assured me that the nerve-cells of the middle layers of the cortex are subject to no definite rule as regards their form .
The pyramidal form was too exclusively supposed by Meynert to be due to the action of hardening agents , and he certainly erred in assuming the 330 Mr. B. Lewis on the Lymphatic [ June 21 spindle form to be the natural and most prevalent .
The fact seems t be that the forms are too protean for any such exclusive statement to b scientifically accurate .
The fusiform cell is frequently seen in the third layer , the pyramidal is also frequent in fresh specimens , others are pyri form , ovate , ' globose , or even so indefinite as to warrant the tern amoebiform .
It will thus be apparent that the lymph-space surrounding the cel must differ greatly in its contour .
In some cases the lymph-sac is no ' apparent , although its endothelial elements may indicate its existence this , in all cases , I believe , is due to the mode of preparation , or to pathological changes ( probably , also , certain physiological conditions ) not yel satisfactorily investigated .
Within these spaces we can frequentlj detect the corpuscular elements of the lymphatic system , whilst t faintly granular plasma remains as the representative of the coagulated lymph .
The boundary wall of these spaces varies much in appearance , according to the character assumed by the surrounding matrix oi neuroglia .
The more finely granular the .
appearance of the neuroglia the less perfectly can the wall of the pericellular space be differentiated from its environment , the minutest fibrils of connective and nerve intermingled in the finely granular basis approaching to the clearly defined margin of the space , and no distinct limiting membrane being observable .
In all probability these spaces are lined merely with a delicate endothelial investment .
In cases where great shrinking of structure has occurred by the use of strong solutions of chromic acid and subsequent methods of preparation , I have observed much distortion occur , whereby the cell is laterally displaced , or even partially withdrawn from its enclosing sac .
The next stage in my observations was arrived at by the discovery that a minute blood-vessel invariably ran in close contact with all the large nerve-cells .
In some cases the elongated nuclei of the capillary might not have been sufficiently stained and the outline of the vessel not distinct , yet the line of perivascular endothelial elements would unmistakably indicate its course , except where the vessel had been cut across , when the open lumen surrounded by its perivascular sheath , often with one or more nuclei attached , still indicated the close proximity of the vessel to a nerve-cell .
In all cases I have never failed to recognize , on careful examination , a small capillary either passing immediately across the , nerve-cell or running with a gentle curve along the confines of the pericellular space .
The invariable occurrence of this arrangement naturally struck my attention as a highly significant fact , and more extensive observations proved it to be the universal arrangement throughout the cortex cerebri .
In many instances a distinct connexion between perivascular and pericellular space could be clearly observed , although from obvious reasons the majority of specimens exhibited this connexion only after the most careful and strict scrutiny , or afforded , on the other hand , no definite indications of its existence .
77 J System of the Brain .
331 The fact , however , of a direct communication existing between these \#166 ; aces is established when seen clearly and unmistakably in a single stance .
In the accompanying sketch ( Plate 1 .
fig. 1 ) such a connexion well shown , and I can fully vouch for the accuracy of the minutest tails here portrayed .
With regard to the mode of connexion it must be remembered that the ricellular sacs are laterally disposed along the sides of the smaller pillaries , and in no case occupy a terminal position ; hence the nerve-11 is bathed in a constantly renewed current of lymph on all its sides , oes this distribution in any way indicate the mode of development of ie nerve-cell ?
With the object of answering this query I examined veral brains of foetal and adult animals ; and although I cannot speak inclusively on the point , it will be apparent , by reference to figs. 2 , 3 , at the characters represented in such sections strongly confirmed the ews adopted above , and indicate likewise a development of nerve-cells om within the perivascular sheath projecting from its walls in egg-laped ampullae .
The nerve-cells are seen in these specimens to follow ^finitely the course of the blood-vessels , and often surround the latter l crowds , and assume with the direction of the vessel a linear or arched rnrse .
In the cortex of the new-born kitten the appearances indicated i fig. 2 were seen .
The perivascular sheaths were unusually defined , id could be traced along the most minute capillaries .
The nerve-cells ere arranged in one or two series along the course of the capillary , and '0 clearly separated by a space from the neuroglia in its vicinity .
The ills and their limiting sacs are somewhat pyriform , and appear to arise yl narrowed stalk-like processes .
The pyriform appearance is still etter marked in a section from the ascending frontal convolution of a oung dog ( fig. 3 ) , which shows two large pyriform cells , distinctly nu-leated and within their enclosing sheath .
At this period it will be bserved that the nerve-cells have not thrown out their processes , and he development can be traced merely from a globular cell or nucleus to distinctly nucleated pyriform cell .
Such appearances would seem to indi-ate that the nerve-cells of the cerebral cortex are lymphatic outgrowths ; .lit whether this be so , or whether amoeboid vagrants from the blood-urrent be the source of these centres of nervous activity , must remain or a time sub judice .
One important fact it is well to bear Jn mind ; he existence of these pericellular sacs enables us to infer a more direct .rganic connexion between vessel and nerve-cell than we were capable of issuming before .
Further research alone will enable us to establish the jxistence of that mutual sympathy between nerve-cell and vascular consents in healthy and diseased action which is dependent upon their levelopment from similar and identical elements .
Important considerations must be drawn if this view of the anatomical relationship of nerve-cells to a lymphatic system be generally accepted .
There are observers who have attributed these spaces , when seen in 332 Mr. B. Lewis on the Lymphatic [ June 21 .
senile atrophy , to mere ' shrinking of the cell from degenerative changes and the production thereby of an artificial fissure or chasm around tht cell .
The broader views now advanced will enable such observers tc expect similar appearances from very diverse causes .
The unusual distinctness with which these lymph-sacs sometimes present themselves may , I am convinced , be occasioned by hardening agents such as chromic acid and its salts ; but I feel equally well assured thai similar appearances may result from an unusually distended lymph-system .
We may therefore expect to find them well shown where obstructive agencies interfere with the outflow of the lymph-stream towards the pia mater .
The large size and defined contour of these lymph-sacs in senile atrophy of the brain may undoubtedly be due to shrinking of the enclosed degenerating protoplasm of the cell ; yet the important point is to recognize these spaces as natural structures in an unnaturally distended condition , for their large size appears to me due not only to wasting and recession of the enclosed cell , but to a large accumulation of lymph , the lymphatic channels , both pericellular and perivascular , being in a distended condition throughout .
Sections from the frontal lobe of a young and perfectly cat ex- hibited these pericellular spaces with remarkable distinctness Plate 1 .
fig. 1 ) .
In this instance the distension of the lymph-sac was probably accompanied by a general plethora of the whole lymph-system of the brain , as the appearance of the nerve-cell would scarcely warrant the supposition of the appearance being entirely due to the shrinking of the cell consequent upon chrome hardening .
The morbid conditions interfering with the perivascular lymph-current of the brain are numerous .
Hyper-semia acts in this way and greatly modifies the nutritive and depurative changes proceeding in the pericellular sacs .
Deposits within the perivascular sheaths , aneurismal dilatations along the vessels , tubercular outgrowths from their walls , proliferating connective elements , may all in their turn affect very materially the free exit of lymph from the perivascular channels , which is a sine qud non for the maintenance of the functional activity of nerve-cells .
The proliferation of the connective elements of the neuroglia is represented in Plate 2 .
figs. 5 and 6 , the latter being a fresh-teased preparation , while the former is from a section obtained by means of the freezing microtome .
The truly protean forms assumed by these connective elements are well seen in such specimens , the nucleated corpuscle becoming swollen , cloudy , and often coarsely granular ; at other times it maintains through all its changes of form the pellucid delicate appearance of its protoplasm .
Methods of Examination of the Cortex Cerebri .
It will be necessary for me to dwell shortly upon the methods employed by myself in this investigation .
I have not limited myself to any conventional process for obtaining sections ; but , whilst making free use of ] ewis .
me .
Roy .
Soc7 Proa Roy .
Soc.~VbZ .
Z6 1877 ' .
] System of the Brain .
333 the ordinary preparation by chrome hardening , and the subsequent staining with logwood , carmine , and other dyes ( adopting Lockhart Clarke 's method for clearing and mounting ) , I have struck out independently a series of investigations devoted to the preparation of the brain in the fresh state , feeling convinced that the disuse of hardening agents would eliminate many sources of fallacy .
A method was adopted by me and described at length in the 'Monthly Microscopical Journal ' ( Sept. 1876 ) , whereby the cells and cortical structure generally could be well displayed .
The great fault attached to this process is that relationships were wholly sacrificed for clearer definition of structure and differentiation of elements .
Having endeavoured , without success , to obtain satisfactory results by the ordinary freezing methods with ice and salt , I eventually devised an instrument whereby freezing with ether spray was introduced , and all the conditions requisite for cutting the finest sections of fresh brain were obtained .
This instrument was made for me by Mr. Baker of High Holborn , and is described by me in the ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology ' for April 1877 , and proves to be of the greatest value in the investigation of nervous structures . .
'When perfectly fresh sections of healthy brain are thus obtained , and the slightest possible staining of the nerve-cells produced by a drop of carmine , or a *25 per cent , solution of aniline black , just sufficing , in fact , to give us the outline of the cells , nuclei , nucleoli , and their environment , we are able to detect , in most cases , indications of spaces surrounding the cell ; and especially is this the case in conditions which induce a shrinking of the cell-protoplasm , or , on the other hand , of the surrounding neuroglia .
The examination of these films of fresh cortex by chemical reagents , their examination after staining by aniline and mounting in balsam , the process of teasing above alluded to , as well as chrome hardening for sections , have been the methods employed in this investigation .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
ft Plate 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Section obtained from the ascending frontal gyrus of a healthy young cat .
Illustrative of the relationships of the pericellular lymph-sacs to the bloodvessel and its lymphatic sheath ( the brain in this case was hardened and stained simultaneously ) .
X 180 diameters .
Fig. 2 .
Section from the frontal lobe of a kitten at birth .
Exhibits the young nerve-cells of the cortex within their lymphatic sacs arranged along the perivascular channels .
The neuroglia is finely granular , the perivascular sheaths are distended , and the nerve-cells fail to exhibit , clear indications of a nucleus .
X 210 diameters . .
Fig. 3 .
Similar appearances shown in a section obtained from the same convolution in a dog at birth .
The nerve-cells are becoming elongated , pyriform , and in some cases exhibit a nucleus .
X 210 diameters .
334 Profs .
Remold and Rucker on the [ June 2 Plate 2 .
Fig. 4 .
A " giant cell " from the ascending frontal convolution in man .
Obtain* from recent brain by means of the new freezing microtome , x 105 d meters .
Fig. 5 .
Section from the ascending frontal convolution in a case of senile atropl Obtained , by means of the new freezing microtome , from fresh brain .
Ti proliferation of connective cells of the upper cortical layers is seen invadi the vascular tracts and nervous elements .
X 180 diameters .
Fig. 6 .
A cluster of amoeboid connective cells from the third layer of the ascendi frontal convolution , in a case of senile atrophy .
Section obtained fro fresh brain by pressure and teasing .
III .
" On the Thickness of Soap Films .
" By A. W. Reinol : M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Royal Naval Colleg Greenwich^ and A. W. Rucker , M.A. , Professor of Physi\lt ; in the Yorkshire College of Science , Leeds .
Communicate by R. B. Clifton , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Ph losophy in the University of Oxford .
Received June 13,187i Attempts have from time to time been made by various physicists 1 obtain from the phenomena of capillarity , or from observations on liqui films , an indication of the magnitude of the radius of molecular attra* tion .
The authors of this note have , with the same object in vie ?
lately made a series of experiments to determine whether the law tha the resistance offered to the electric current by a uniformly thick home genous body varies inversely as the section is or is not apparent !
obeyed by liquid films , as any apparent departure from that law migt be taken to indicate a want of homogeneity , or that the thickness of th film was comparable with the magnitude of the radius of molecula attraction .
Their investigations on this point are not as yet sufficiently advanced fc publication ; but in the course of their work they have made some obsei vations on the forms of soap films , which they venture to lay before th Royal Society in a preliminary note .
A liquid film , inclined to the horizontal so as to become gradual !
thinner by the slow descent of the liquid , will , under favourable con ditions , appear black , as in the central portion of Newton 's rings .
B optical methods it is only possible to obtain a superior limit to the thick ness of the black portion of such a film .
but there is no doubt that a the lower boundary of the black the thickness of the film increases wit extraordinary rapidity .
As a general rule no trace of the blue of the first order can be per ceived ; but when the colour next below the black is the white of the firs ' order , the line of separation between the two is very definite ; and if th film be moved so as to change the angle of incidence of the light b ; \#171 ;

