The Structure of Nerve-fibres .
By J. S. Macdonald , the University of Sheffield .
( Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received July 31 \#151 ; Read November 22 , 1906 .
) Frog 's nerve-fibres present very different appearances in different portions of their length , when teased and examined in Ringer 's solution .
The main distinctions affect the contents of the myelin sheath .
To avoid misunderstanding I propose to speak of this portion of the nerve-fibre as the " intramyelin material , " since the term more generally used ( " axis-cylinder " ) has now become so completely identified with new appearances produced in this material by the action of reagents .
Briefly summarised the main differences observed are as follows :\#151 ; ( a ) In places the intramyelin material exhibits the perfect transparency and homogeneity of a clear solution .
( b ) In places this limpidity is clouded by a fine punctate granulation .
( c ) At others the granular appearance is much more marked .
The individual granules are of different sizes , and vary from obvious spherules to just perceptible points .
( d ) In other places again large hemispherical vacuoles make their appearance , their bases upon the myelin sheath and their convex surfaces pointing inwards towards the central axis of the fibre .
These marginally placed vacuoles are situated at irregular distances from one another , and are of irregular size .
They lie now on this side , now on the other side of the fibre .
The remainder of the intramyelin material , the more central portion , is here less translucent and more granular .
( e ) The vacuoles here have extended , and by their more numerous formation and communication with one another have joined to form an irregularly spiral channel .
The central and less translucent portion of the intramyelin material also presents the appearance of a spiral , as it bends now to this point , now to that point upon the myelin sheath at places where a separation from the myelin sheath has not yet occurred .
The curves of this irregular spiral are now short , now long .
The material of which it is formed also varies in diameter , more swollen here , more condensed there .
The central mass is much longer than the straight tubular myelin sheath within which it lies .
( / ) In other places this central coagulum is of more uniform diameter and forms a straighter line .
It has undergone a diminution in length and in thickness .
The Structure of Nerve-fibres .
The evidence of this change of length is sometimes very complete .
Imagine a stretched elastic string placed in the long axis of a tube with flexible walls .
Eelease the string and so let its elasticity come into play .
As the string contracts , the flexible tube will become arranged as a spiral curled around the axial string .
Such a figure would be the reverse of the appearance described above in which a straight tube enclosed a spiral string .
I do not say that I have seen evidence of tension so complete as this , but I have frequently seen something similar , if something less .
Thus when the process of teasing has left nerve-fibres arranged upon the slide in undulating curves , the clot which forms within the intramyelin material sometimes shortens to a length less than that of the fibre .
In this case the clot does not follow the curvature of the fibre , but passes straight across from one point of maximal curvature to another .
Sometimes this central coagulum may be seen to show the usual signs of longitudinal strain in a viscous cord .
It is faintly marked by fine lines in the main direction of the strain , and has a finely fibrillated appearance which has led to a belief that this central mass is formed by the agglutination of a number of originally separate " neuro-fibrils .
" There is , however , nothing in the appearances seen in teased nerve-fibres to warrant such a view .
The most severe test to which this view can be put is to seek , in terms of it , for an explanation of the alterations in length which this central mass undergoes .
Such an explanation would require not only an imagination of separate fibrils , but also their new endowment with the property of elasticity .
In nerve-fibres teased in Einger 's solution these appearances are usually distributed in a definite order .
The immediate vicinity of the cut end is granular , this granulation is succeeded by a tract of homogeneous intramyelin material , and then all the successive appearances due to a gradually increasing degree of coagulation occur in the order given above .
The order in which the appearances are arranged is sometimes complicated by less extensive and subsidiary sets of appearances of the same kind arranged around interpolated nodes of Eanvier .
This balancing of appearances around injured points and nodes of Eanvier introduces a complexity into the description of the normal character of teased nerve-fibres .
If there is any hurry to identify some one of these appearances as the " normal " one , it must be remembered that teased nerve-fibres are traversed by the " current of injury " and must be expected to exhibit evidence of consequent polarisation .
Mr. J. S. Macdonald .
[ July 31 , Nerve-fibres Teased in " Normal Saline " Tinged with Toluidine Blue .
I have , in a previous note , described the manner in which these nerve-fibres are affected by the addition of neutral red to the " normal saline " in which they were teased .
This dye characteristically stains all injured points and some of the nodes of Ranvier .
As time elapses it also stains granules which form at gradually increasing distances from these points .
The most notable fact about neutral red staining is the slow invasion of the nerve-fibre by this process of granule formation .
When I first replaced this basic dye by another one of an apparently not very different character\#151 ; toluidine blue__I was surprised by the complete difference in result obtained .
It is true that here and there some stained plugs of material were visible at injured points , but I failed to find any trace of the progressive granule formation so evident in the other case .
The characteristic effects of toluidine blue staining were obtained in quite another region of the teased nerve-fibres , and had a very different character .
This dye stains all those regions of the nerve-fibre in which the coagulative changes occur , whereas neutral red yields a picture of a slowly progressing change gradually affecting that first portion of the nerve-fibre in which the intramyelin material is at first seen homogeneous and transparent .
In these regions of coagulative change toluidine blue gives rise to appearances which vary pari passu with the extension , and with the intensity , of the coagulation present .
Regions such as in unstained fibres would be definitely granular , are loaded with blue granules distributed with much precision across and along the intramyelin material .
Such granules leap suddenly into sight over long stretches of the fibre , and are not originated therefore by any process which can be described as an invasion .
The tract of developed granules is bounded on the side nearer to the injury by a clear , unstained and homogeneous region , the line of demarcation is sometimes remarkably sharp .
On the other side the granular tract passes into a region in which coagulative changes have led to the development of a central rope now stained an intense blue colour .
This curiously complementary behaviour of these two basic dyes is therefore of obvious interest in mapping out two different tracts of the teased nerve-fibre .
It certainly does not diminish this interest that in case of either dye an appropriate adjustment in the saline solution in which the dye is introduced to the nerve-fibre may be made to overcome this dissimilarity .
If Ringer 's solution is substituted for " normal saline , " or , better still , if a small quantity of sodium carbonate , 002 per cent. , is added to the Ringer , or even when the sodium carbonate is simply added to " normal saline , " or even when 1906 .
] The Structure of Nerve-fibres .
the basic dye is itself added in increased quantity , then toluidine blue may be made to reveal the complete set of appearances .
In these solutions the invasion of the homogeneous region may be watched in a nerve-fibre in which the sudden appearance of granule formation in more distal regions and the intensely stained eoagulum is also marked .
If , on the contrary , Ringer 's solutiou is substituted for " normal saline " in the case of neutral red , nothing whatever , or at the most only faint traces of granule formation are obtained even in the region near to the cut end .
The neutral red stain is enabled to penetrate the whole nerve-fibre best when present in small quantity , 0'01 per cent. , and when presented in unboiled " normal saline " rendered faintly acid by the presence of carbonic acid .
Toluidine blue solution must be rendered faintly alkaline .
, or , at least , the calcic phosphate of the Ringer 's solution must be present to prevent a development of acidity .
Neutral red is , on the other hand , ineffectual in the presence of a reagent , preventing the development of acidity , and can be made to stain the distal coagulated stretch of the fibre only when presented in association with a slight trace of acid .
There is an obvious conclusion to be drawn from this series of facts .
There is one region of the nerve which neutral red stains when unaided by any addition of acid .
This is the point of actual injury , and a limited region in its neighbourhood which gradually extends with lapse of time .
The inference is dear , that this is a tract of the nerve in which a certain amount of acidity develops , or , at least , that it is the least alkaline portion of the nerve .
The behaviour of toluidine blue in the same region is also seen to support this inference .
Here it refuses to stain until alkalinity is obtained .
This might lead to the additional inference , that the region of coagulation which toluidine blue stains unaided is itself more alkaline than any other tract of the fibre .
It would seem therefore that at present we had done no more than map out the teased nerve-fibre into regions of homogeneity and of coagulation , into regions of less and greater alkalinity , and also that we have associated these two separate attributes .
There is a homogeneous region dose to each injured point which is gradually invaded and rendered granular by an acid tide sweeping in from the point of injury .
There is a more alkaline region , in which different grades of coagulation occur .
The Distribution of Potassium Salts in Teased Nerve-fibres .
I have already pointed out that Macallum 's reagent may be used to prove the existence of potassium in every portion of the length of a nerve-fibre Mr. J. S. Macdonald .
[ July 31 , provided only that the portion tested be first injured previous to the application of the test .
The circumstance of injury reveals the presence of a highly concentrated solution of potassium salt within the intramyelin material , which makes an immediate appearance at every injured point .
The bizarre appearances produced by this method of mapping out injured points had been observed by Macallum , but was left completely unexplained by him .
Their relation to injury is , however , unmistakable when sought for .
Since these points of injury can be multiplied indefinitely so as to include the whole length of the nerve-fibre , it follows that potassium really exists everywhere within the intramyelin material in some manner hidden from the action of the reagent , and that the processes attendant upon injury are capable of presenting it in a new condition ready to take part in the reaction .
I have discussed the probable meaning of this fact in a previous communication , and the important conclusions which can be drawn from it as to the nature of nerve-function .
A slight modification in the method of use of this reagent brings out further points of considerable interest .
For if nerve-fibres are teased in " normal saline " and allowed to lie in this solution for some time before being tested with Macallum 's solution , the potassium solution is found much more widely distributed .
It is now found in all those regions of the fibre , in which toluidine blue can be used to reveal its own characteristic effects .
Under these conditions potassium is discoverable at each site of injury , and in a neighbouring tract to which it has diffused from this site .
Potassium is also now detected in all those regions in which I have described the occurrence of coagulative change .
We are , therefore , introduced to a new and very important conclusion .
Potassium salts are also discoverable in regions of the fibre distant from points of injury , provided that time is given for their appearance .
Although not situated at injured points this more distal region of the fibre has a secondary relation to injury of a most interesting kind .
This relation is at once made evident on reference to Bethes observations upon the staining capacity of polarised nerve-fibres .
Bethe has made use of an ingenious experimental method , whereby the fixation of a neive is secured during the traverse of a polarising current .
The nei\e is then piepared for examination under the microscope , and is stained in toluidine blue or in some other similar basic dye .
Prepared in this way the fibres are found to exhibit a remarkable distribution of staining capacity .
The anodal region is pallid , the indifference point is studded with granules , and the kathodal region is intensely stained .
It will be seen that this set of appearances is exactly similar to that which I have observed in The Structure of Nerve-fibres .
1906 .
] teased nerve-fibres stained with the same dye .
Now I have already produced evidence in favour of the view that teased nerve-fibres are traversed by an electrical current\#151 ; their own injury current .
Bethe 's observations enable me therefore to identify this distribution of staining capacity in teased nerve-fibres as due to polarisation caused by this current .
The pallid stretch of homogeneous intramyelin material is the anodal region of the self-polarised nerve .
The deeply-stained region , in which coagulative changes are observable , is the kathodal region where the injury current leaves the nerve-fibre to traverse the external circuit of the salt solution .
We can now return to the evidence obtained as to the distribution of potassium . .
Injury suddenly elicits the appearance of strong solution of potassium at the injured point .
Given timq , this solution diffuses into the neighbouring stretch of the nerve-fibre .
This phenomenon is accompanied by an electrical phenomenon , the injury current .
The traverse of the injury current polarises the fibre and gives rise to the appearance of a new mass of potassium solution , accompanied by appearances characteristic of coagulation at the kathodal region .
Macallum has more recently published an account of the distribution of the inorganic chlorides present in nerve-fibres .
With the assistance of Miss Menten he has penetrated the false character , which the vagaries of the slowly-diffusing silver nitrate confer upon their apparent distribution , and has discovered the fact that the inorganic chlorides are everywhere present in great quantity in the intramyelin material .
The drawings accompanying this paper also reveal a very remarkable addition to this statement of chloride distribution .
In most of these illustrations it is easy to observe indications of effects produced by the nature of the reagents made use of .
The proportion existing between the diameters of the myelin sheath , the intramyelin material , and the whole fibre , are alone sufficient basis upon which to make this statement .
The intramyelin material does not occupy one-half of its usual relative cross-section .
Where this is not the case , and the right proportions are maintained , the authors describe the fibres as swollen .
Wherever , in the illustrations , this swollen , but normal , appearance of the fibre is present , the distribution of the chloride coincides exactly with the appearance of teased nerve-fibres stained with basic dyes , and also with appearances obtained by the use of Macallum 's reagent for potassium .
I have no hesitation whatever in urging , upon this basis of evidence , the .
necessity of conjugating these facts .
The salt present is potassium chloride .
It is present in extraordinary quantity .
It is present in some masked position in the structure of the intramyelin material .
From this position there is direct evidence that it is enticed by injury , and by the kathodal state .
VOL. LXX1X.\#151 ; B. ' c Mr. J. S. Macdonald .
[ July 31 , Staining Due to Salt Concentration .
We may now turn to another striking fact which has made its appearance in the course of these investigations .
Basic dyes , toluidine blue , and neutral red have been made use of to map out the distribution of a material , which , upon further examination , turns out to be potassium chloride .
Set forth in these direct terms , there is nothing surprising in this statement , since both dyes can be " salted out " from their solutions by the addition of potassium chloride .
Neutral red is a most insoluble body when tested in this manner , and it was for this reason that I selected its staining effects as a guide to the distribution of the potassium chloride solutions in nerve-fibres .
Toluidine blue is more soluble , nevertheless it is easily capable of being " salted out " by solutions of the concentration that my electrical experiments have led me to anticipate .
I have also since found that it is more easily " salted out " by potassium chloride in the presence of small traces of alkali , 003 sodium carbonate .
This latter point has an obvious bearing upon the salting out of toluidine blue in alkaline cell-structures , and more especially at kathodal points .
This definite coincidence between toluidine blue staining and results obtained by the use of reagents precipitating potassium and " chloride " renders it possible at once to advance a general proposition of some interest ._ All the appearances made evident in the nerve-fibre by the use of toluidine blue are due to the manner in which this dye is salted out from its solutions by potassium chloride .
There is also a further point .
The appearances which Bethe developed in nerves fixed in alcohol , or in alcohol and ether , I have obtained in nerves freshly teased in " normal saline .
" Bethe 's results coincide with mine , and must be equally accepted as providing a picture of solutions of different concentrations of potassium chloride .
Nor is this to be wondered at .
Potassium chloride is only slightly soluble in alcohol , although extremely soluble in water .
The addition of alcohol , the rapid dehydration which ensues , and the replacement of the water by alcohol , must be definitely expected to leave the salts present as precipitates .
Wherever it exists the potassium chloride is precipitated practically in the same quantity as it was originally present in solution .
Alcohol fixation , therefore , is precisely calculated to leave in situ precipitates of salt for subsequent micro-chemical investigation with toluidine blue and similar dyes .
It is impossible to leave this point without remarking upon the general bearing of this conclusion .
I he nerve-fibre cannot be the only case in which considerations of this kind are worthy of examination .
Granules in the IS 1906 .
] The Structure of Nerve-fibres .
cell-bodies of secretory cells , or in the bodies of nerve-cells , are no doubt elicitable by similar means , which also have the same significance .
It is possible that Nissl granules are of this order of importance .
Tailing definite evidence upon which to make any assertion , it must at least be said that the well-known appearances accompanying " chromatolysis " are extremely suggestive in character .
They would seem to be the consequences of such changes in osmotic pressure as would result from the sudden liberation of salts into solution .
Neurofibrils .
It is now possible to deal with the phenomena observed in that tract of the teased nerve-fibres which corresponds with Bethe 's indifference point and its granules .
In teased nerve-fibres this region is naturally much more extended , since the polarising " injury current " has a comparatively small value and the changes in the intrapolar region are more gradual .
Throughout the whole of this region dense granule formations occur , and these are of such a striking appearance when examined with high powers of the microscope as to absorb a major share of attention .
In my own case their fascination left me at first with scant respect for the polar changes described above .
To a certain extent this interest is justified when it is considered as the region least involved in polar changes , and altered , therefore , only from the " normal " resting condition in so far as it is involved in the transmission of an electrical current .
For the present , however , it is sufficient to deal with the light which these granule formations throw upon the artificial structures known as neurofibrils .
In a previous communication I reported the fact that in nerve-fibres teased in saline solution I had never seen structures bearing any very close resemblance to the neurofibrils described as making their appearance in nerve-fibres " fixed ** and stained in special reagents .
Since making this statement I have , however , seen structures which cannot be described as granules , since their length is considerable and their thickness much too minute , and which yet cannot be .
called " neurofibrils , " since they are too short , too irregularly arranged , and since they anastomose .
The resemblance which they bear to the " neurofibrils " described as found in fixed nerve-fibres is very much that borne by the anastomosing networks of fibrils described as structural components of some nerve-cells .
Fibrils such as this I have only seen in some few out of the many nerves that I have teased .
Much more frequent , but still only of comparatively occasional occurrence , are structures conveniently classed as bacillar granules , shorter but more c 2 The Structure o characteristically much thicker than the fibrils .
The latter are always in much smaller number in each unit length of the fibre .
Other forms seen far more frequently are short ovoid and spherical granules and flakes of the precipitated dye .
When all these forms are present they occur in a definite order .
The fibrils are found in the first portion of this stained region abutting upon the unstained anodal tract , then follow bacillar granules , then ovoid granules always associated with tracts of the fibre in which definite kathodal staining and coagulative changes are found .
In this latter region spherical granules may also occur , but they are placed not in the central coagulum but in the clearer fluid surrounding it .
In one and the same portion of the kathodal region ovoid granules may be seen enclosed in the central mass , flakes may be seen upon its surface , and spherical granules may be seen in the clear fluid surrounding it .
To understand the meaning of these granule formations and this difference in their character , it is essential to remember the manner in which they are thus associated with different degrees of coagulation .
At the distal extremity of the homogeneous anodal tract is placed the region in which the first approach to visible coagulation takes place .
In this place there is no separation between a core and a surrounding fluid .
Each unit of volume still contains almost its normal amount of uncoagulated material .
The threads of coagulum are still surrounded by an almost normal intramyelin solution .
It is in this region , where " solid phase " is still surrounded by a great mass of " fluid phase , " that the fibrils are sometimes seen .
Before I had puzzled out the meaning of the adjacent unstained anodal tract , in which no granule formation takes place except as the result of diffusion from the source of the injury current , I was greatly exercised by this constant position of such fibrils as I had found .
The bacillar granules probably represent a further stage of degradation , in which , however , the main mass of material is almost normally fluid in character .
In both these cases the dye is precipitated upon the outer surface of threads of coagulum .
As we proceed into districts nearer and nearer to the kathode an opposite set of conditions arises .
The greater portion of the proteid material is precipitated or coagulated as a " solid phase .
" Within the interstices of this mass there are , however , entrapped collections of solution .
It is probable that here the granules represent such collections within which the dye is precipitated .
At one end of the scale of changes solid threads are stained upon their surfaces .
At the other there is a similar staining upon the surface of a coagulated mass , and within this again are intensely stained vacuoles .
In no place are neurofibrils of indefinite length existent , simply by reason The Influence of Increased Barometric Pressure on Man .
21 of the gradually varied conditions present in the district where coagulation is taking place .
REFERENCES .
A. B. Macallum , " On the Distribution of Potassium Salts in Animal and Vegetable Cells , " 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 32 , pp. 96-128 , 1905 .
A. B. Macallum and Miss Menten , " On the Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , pp. 165-192 , 1906 .
Albrecht Bethe , " Allgemeine Anatomieund Physiologie des Nervensystems , " pp. 272-298 , Leipzig , 1903 .
J. S. Macdonald , " The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , 1905 .
The Influence of Increased Barometric Pressure on Man.\#151 ; II .
By Leonard Hill , F.R.S. , and M. Greenwood , Jr. , M.R.C.S. , British Medical Association Research Scholar .
( Received October 6 , \#151 ; Read November 8 , 1906 .
) In a previous communication , we gave reasons for thinking that decompression symptoms may be avoided by maintaining a steady rate of 20 minutes per atmosphere during this process .
The actual time selected was purely empirical , being based on the statistics of Caisson " Works , Diving Operations , and Laboratory Experiments .
It is clear that a more scientific foundation would be obtained if we could determine ( 1 ) the rate at which the tissue fluids are saturated with nitrogen ; ( 2 ) the rapidity with which dissolved gas escapes during decompression .
The most direct method would be to analyse samples of arterial blood under various pressure conditions ; but this is not , unfortunately , practicable in the case of man .
Another way is the examination of venous samples under similar circumstances .
This plan can be followed , and we hope to communicate some results in another paper , but the technic is difficult and still in need of improvement .
A third line of research is the indirect determination of the tissue gases , and this will be discussed in the present communication .
If a condition of diuresis be produced by drinking considerable amounts of water , the profuse secretion of urine which results will afford some measure of the dissolved tissue fluid gases .
We have proceeded in the following way :\#151 ; The subject of the experiment drinks at least a quart of warm water , and , after an interval of 10 to 15 minutes , enters the pressure chamber , the pressure being then raised a definite amount .
Directly the desired pressure has been attained , he empties his bladder .
Ten minutes later the bladder is emptied again .
Samples of the urine passed are then run

