]\gt ; phical Method of jectories for High-Angle Fire .
By W. .
DALBY , F.R.S. ( Received January 21 1917 .
) In May , I described a graphical method for finding the time of flight , the , the of elevation , in fact , the elements of a trajectory , having given the curve of resistance as a function of the velocity and assuming that the density of air was constant at all points along the trajectory .
The method is therefure only applicable to trajectories of low altitude .
In this paper I describe graphical ethod for obtaining a series of points on a trajectory of high altitude , taking into account the variation of the density of the air with Let , fig. 1 , be a point on a trajectory where the velocity iven and equal in direction to and in nitude to , and whose position is given by the co-ordinates X and .
The prol ) is to find the co-ordinates with reference to the point , of a second point the into consideration the actual resistance of the air to motion of the shell , it being assumed that the variation of the density of air is known as shell rises or falls in ; and to find the defining the direction of motion and the magnitude of the velocity the point in the trajectory .
Providing that two curves are iven , the problem may be solved mately by process of step-by-step ration , the ) ethod .
Soc. Proc , vol. , p. 329 ( 1916 ) .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. 2 Prof. W. E. Dalby .
A phical Method of explained in my paper*to obtain time-velocity and time-distance curves .
These two curves ( 1 ) A curve showing , the resistance in air of standard density of a shell of standard form fired under standard conditions , the resistance being shown as a function of the velocity ( such a curve is shown in ) .
( 2 ) A curve the tenuity of the air as a function of the height ( as shown in fig. 7 , p. 344 ) .
The tenuity at height is the ratio the density of the air at height and the standard density at sea-level .
According to the official text-books the resistance to motion through the air is then proportional to , and for a shell of diameter the resistance is equal to , where is a coefficient to allow for the shape of the shell and is a coefficient to allow for the steadiness , a technical term used to include such variations as may be produced by irreguiarities in the actual firing .
The resistance expressed in this way is also in accord with the method given in the official gunnery text-book .
Solution of Problem .
The given velocity at the point A in the trajectory has components vertically , horizontally .
The resistance in the trajectory corresponding to the velocity is found from the curve fig. 3 to be .
The corresponding component resistances at A vertically , izontally .
Then , putting for the constant , the resistances against which the shell rises vertically are the air resistance , and the weight of the shell , giving a total resistance of .
When the shell is rising the two terms are of the same sign , but when falling they are of opposite The resistance against which the shell moves horizontally is The equations of motion siu vertically , ( 1 ) horizontally .
( 2 ) 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 92 , p. 329 ( April l , 1916 ) .
Drawing Trajectories for High-Angle The forlffi solutions of these equations are , ( 3 ) .
( 4 ) In these expressions is a function of the velocity and is a function of the height and is independent of the velocity .
The equations cannot , therefore , be integrated as they stand , since cannot be expressed as a function of .
The graphical method explained in my previous paper may , wever , be applied step by step to get a solution in the following ( 1 ) Assume a value of the vertical velocity at near enough to the given vertical velocity , , at A to make the influence of the change of tenuity on the resistance igibly small .
Let stand for the assumed value of the vertical velocity at B. Plot a curve representing the quantity ( 5 ) between the values of the vertical velocity at A and the assumed value at B. In plotting curve take constant and equal to the tenuity at the height A. The resistance is the only variable , and its value at a few points along the and the final point corresponding to the assumed velocity is to be found by dividing the velocities selected by in order to reduce them to actual velocities in the trajectory , and then the corresponding values of are taken either from a Table , or from a curve like the curve in fig. 3 , drawn to a large scale .
The in the resistance Prof W. E. Dalby .
A phical Method of caused by assuming that remains constant during the motion over this portion of the trajectory is neghgibly small .
( 2 ) From the curve representing equation ( 5 ) above , construct the corre3,000 parts of the time-velocity and the time-height curves by the graphical method described in my previous paper .
( 3 ) From the obtained in ( 2 ) , measure off the corresponding to the assumed vertical velocity at , namely , , and also time-interval , and call the time-interval T. Equation ( 3 ) has now been also its derivative , , on the assumption of constant tenuity .
The solution ( a ) The vertical step in ( b ) The time-interval corresponding Co We now go to equation ( 4 ) , solving it in a similar way .
The link connecting the two equations is the time-interval T. Elements of the time-velocity and the time-distance curves are constructed from assumed values of the horizontal velocities and an appropriate value of the tenuity , and then points are found on these elements corresponding to the timeDrawing .
for High-Angle interval , fixing at once the corresponding values of the horizontal step ' and the horizontal velocity at the end of the step .
( 4 ) Assume a few even values of horizontal velocities , divide them by to get the corresponding values of the velocities in the trajectory , from which values of are foumd for use in the expression ( 6 ) The value of to be used in this expression is the value the step That is .
Values of and can be found by calculation , or from a cnrve similar to that shown in fig. 7 , where the tenuity is plotted as a function of the height .
Generally , two values of ( 6 ) will be sufficient to determine the element of the auxiliary curve .
( 5 ) From the curve found in ( 4 ) , construct the corresponding parts of the time-velocity time-distance cllrves by the.(yeneral method described in my previous paper .
( 6 ) From the curves found in ( 5 ) , measure off\mdash ; ( c ) The distance corresponding to the time-interval T. ( d ) The velocity at the end of the time-interval T. Then ( c ) is the horizontal distance is the horizontal velocity at B. ( 7 ) It rennains to determine the direction of the at B. Let the tangents to the trajectory through the points A and meet in Draw the chord AB .
Then the ngle h is equal to .
And it may be assumed , with negligible error , that the angle EBA is also equal to this .
Then the exterior angle is equal to 2 , and the , which the tangent at makes with the horizontal , is given by .
( 7 ) The angle in this ) ression is to be calculated using the values of and found respectively in ( a ) and .
( 8 ) The velocity in the trajectory at is iven alternatively by or velocity at B. These two should substantially agree and ether furnish a check on the accuracy of the work .
Prof. W. E. Dalby .
A Graphical Method of ( 9 ) The initial conditions at are Direction of the tangent Velocity along the tangent Tenuity and the air resistance All the data are therefore known for a fresh application of the method to find a point on the trajectory .
Repeated applications of the method from point to point carry the trajectory up to the vertex , and then down again to which may be assigned .
About eight points are sufficient to carry up to the vertex of the trajectory , and about six points bring it down to the ground to the vertex , and the range on the level or on any inclination , together with the time of flight , are then determined , I made a first application of the method to the case of a shell weighing 380 lb. , fired from a -inch gun elevated to , taking a muzzle velocity 2375 feet per second , the data corresponding with one of the rounds fired from the -inch wire-wound used in the " " Jubilee Trials\ldquo ; on June 12 , 1888 .
Ttle results obtained were : range 23,000 yards , and time of seconds .
The actual and time of flight recorded in the reports of the trial are : range 20,236 yards , time of seconds .
A study of the original report shows that there were difficulties which probably reduced the muzzle velocity .
Allowing for this probable discrepancy between the muzzle velocity assumed , namely , 2375 feet per second , and the probably lower value which was actually obtained on the range , the agreement is ) .
It may be noticed that , if the calculated range is reduced in the ratio of the observed time of flight to the calculated time of flight , the result gives a range very equal to the observed .
Thus yards .
The trajectory defined by 13 points found in the way described above , is shown in fig. 8 ( p. 345 ) .
From this it will be seen that the greatest height is 6215 yards , and the striking angle or angle of descent is O. The method of drawing a trajectory is illustrated in the following example by giving in detail the work of determining a point on this particular trajectory .
A shell weighing .
is fired at an angle of elevation of with the horizontal , from a inch diameter .
The muzzle velocity is Drawing Trajectories for High-Angle Fire .
2375 feet per second .
The product of the coefficient of shape , , and the coefficient of steadiness , , is .
The value of the coefficient is therefore Plot the trajectory , and from it find the of the vertex above the level , the time of , and the range .
The resistance is iven by the curve fig. 3 .
The tenuity is iven as a function of the the curve fig. 7 , and is also indicated in The sections itre nulnbered to correspond with those included in the explanation of the method iven above .
The point , fig. 4 , is , for the first interval of the trajectory , the of the trajectory .
The value of the tenuity is unity , and the value of corresponcling to the velocity of ) feet per cond is At A the vertical velocity is feet per second .
At A the horizontal velocity is feet per second .
The Vertical Assume .
vertical velocity at of 1400 feet per second .
The value of the quantity is calculated from .
( 8 ) At , where the velocity is feet per second , At , where the assumed vertical velocity is 1400 feet per second , the corresponding velocity in the trajectory is feet per second , and the corresponding value of is ( 2 ) The values of the quantity ( 5 ) at A and respectively are and 0009345 .
These are set up at the corresponding vertical velocities at Or and .
It is unnecessary to calculate intermediate values for the interval , so that .
and are joined by a straight line .
The area represents the time taken for the vertical velocity to fall fioua the initial value , 152 , to the assumed value , 1400 , and is , in fact , the solution of the differential equation ( .3 ) between the limits of the vertical velocities at A and B. The distance represents this area , and is therefore a point on the time-velocity curve , and Om is the first element of the curve .
Again the area represents the vertical distance moved through in the time Ot .
The length is sel out to scale to represent this distance , so that is a point on the time-height curve , and is the first element of the curve .
Prof. W. E. Dalby .
A raphical Method of Trajectories for the tenuity curve in at the point where its ( 3 ) From this diagram ( fig. 5 ) , therefore , Ot seconds is the time interval Oh feet is the vertical height tenuity at the end of the interval , and therefore the average value over the interval is Prof. W. E. Dalby .
A Graphical Method of Th , With the given data the quantity ( 6 ) becomes .
( 9 ) Assume eve value of the horizontal velocity .
The corresponding velocity in the trajectory is feet per second , for which is found to be equal to 19 .
Inserting this value of in ( 9 ) , together with , it reduces to The value of ( 9 ) at , calculated from and and , is .
Set these values up at the corresponding horizontal velocities , and two ints , and , are determined on the auxiliary urve .
( 5 ) The then represents the time for the horizontal velocity to change from 1820 to 1700 ; the distance represents this area , and is therefore a point on the time-velocity curye , and OM is the first element of the curve .
the area represents the horizontal distance moved in the time Ot .
The is set out to represent this distance , that is point on the time-distance curve and ON is the first element of the curve .
Now set down to represent the time interval second , found om fig. 5 .
draw a horizontal to cut the curves , and through the points of intersection draw verticals cutting the distance axis in and the velocity axis in 1710 .
( 6 ) Scaling ) the curves , OS feet , and this is the co-ordinate ; and the velocity at is 1710 feet per second , and this is the corresponding horizontal velocity at B. ( 7 ) The direction of the tangent at B. , from which therefore ( 8 ) The velocity in the trajectory at is then feet per second , or alternatively feet per second , a sufficiently near oreement .
Point can now be plotted in fig. 4 , and the direction of the tangent drawn in .
Drawing jectories for High-Angle Fire .
Prof. W. E. Dalby .
A GraMethod of The data at from which to construct the next element of the trajectory are Velocity in the trajectory\mdash ; 2216 feet per second , Direction of the The process is then repeated to get another point C. The second element of the time-velocity curve for the vertical component is shown in fig. 5 , and also the second element of the time-height curve corresponding to 18 16 14 8 6 4 Height feet an assumed vertical velocity at of 1200 feet per second .
The corresponding to this step is seconds , and the value of the tenuity is found by a vertical from cutting the tenuity curve in .
Finally , the value of the vertical step feet .
The second elements and of the time-velocity and the timedistance curves for the horizontal component of the motion are shown in fig. 6 , and the parts of these elements .
to the time-interval onds are feet , and the velocity at is 1508 feet per Drawing Trajectories for High-Angle Fire .
QQoooo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
QoQQoo .
Prof. W. E. Dalby .
A Method of UPWARD Vertical Components .
DOWNWARD Vertical Components .
second .
The co-ordinates of the point with reference to the point , fig. 4 , are therefore feet , feet , and the vertical and horizontal velocities at are vertical , 1200 feet per second , as assumed , and horizontal , 1508 feet per second , as found by the process .
Finally , the direction of the tangent at is Drawing Trajectories for High-Angle Fire .
Horizontal Components .
FLIGHT .
Horizontal Components .
from which The details of the whole calculation for the 13 points shown on are given in the annexed Table .

