370 Production of Olefines from Paraffin .
[ Mar. 95 tainty arising from the probable disturbing causes at the first magnetic station .
It is hoped that a second series of observations at the new station will throw greater light on the fact of the sun 's influence on terrestrial mag-netism , by either confirming the results obtained above , or by adding fresh weight to the conclusions arrived at by the President of the Royal Society .
II .
" Preliminary Notice on the Production of the Olefines from Paraffin by Distillation under Pressure .
" By T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , Professor of Chemistry in Anderson 's University , Glasgow , and John Young .
Communicated by Professor Roscoe , P.R.S. Received February 2 , 1871 .
When paraffin is exposed to a high temperature in a closed vessel , it is almost completely resolved , with the evolution of but little gas , into hydrocarbons which remain liquid at the ordinary temperature .
This reaction will undoubtedly afford the most important insight into the constitution of this body .
Accordingly we have repeated this conversion on a large scale , and from about 3^ kilograms of paraffin melting at 44'*5 C. ( prepared from shale ) we have obtained nearly four litres of liquid hydrocarbons .
This mixture of hydrocarbons commences to boil at about 18 ' C. , but the quantity coming over below 100 ' C. is comparatively small ; by far the greater portion boils between 200 ' and 300 ' .
A preliminary separation shows that the four litres are made up of hydrocarbons boiling litres .
Between 200 ' and 300 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2#7 " 100 ' and 200 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 " 0 Below 100 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0-3 4-0 Up to the present we have principally occupied ourselves with the investigation of the fraction boiling below 100 ' , and have obtained conclusive evidence that it is mainly composed of , the proportion of members of the CnH2n-f-2 series being but small .
By repeated fractionations over sodium we obtained perfectly colourless liquids boiling about 35 ' and Go , which were attacked by bromine in the cold with the greatest energy .
On adding the bromine slowly and in minute drops , and carefully cooling the hydrocarbon by a mixture of snow and salt , scarcely a trace of hydro-bromic acid was produced .
The portipn boiling at 36 ' may be either amylhydride or amylene , or a mixture of both ; the avidity with which the bromine combines with it shows that the latter body must be present in considerable quantity .
As soon as the drops of bromine permanently 1871 .
] On the History of the Opium Alkaloids .
371 coloured the liquid , it was submitted to distillation .
Only a small portion came over below 40 ' ; the thermometer rose rapidly to 180 ' , and nearly the whole of the bromine-compound distilled at 184 ' to 188 ' .
This substance is amylene bromide , C5 H10 Br2 ; Wurtz gives the boiling-point of this body at about 180 ' .
The portion therefore boiling at 35 ' is mainly amylene .
Exactly similar results were obtained from the portion boiling at 65 ' to 70 ' .
This , from its boiling-point , may be either C6 H12 or C6 H14 , or a mixture of both .
Bromine disappears instantly on adding it to the carefully cooled liquid , and on distillation by far the greater portion is found to have combined with the halogen .
The bromide thus obtained distils with slight decomposition about 195 ' .
Pelouze and Cahours found that hexylene bromide , C6 H12Br2 , boiled at 192 ' to 198 ' .
We are at present engaged in the further investigation of this subject , and hope shortly to lay our results before the Royal Society .
III .
" Contributions to the History of the Opium Alkaloids .
Part I.\#151 ; On the Action of Hydrobromic Acid on Codeia .
" By C. R. A. Wright , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Roscoe P.R.S. Received February 6 , 1871 .
It has been shown by the late Dr. A. Matthiessen , in conjunction with the writer * , that when codeia is heated with a large excess of strong hydrochloric acid the following reactions successively take place :\#151 ; Codeia .
Chlorocodide .
c18 e21 no3+hci=h2 o+c18 h20 ci no2 .
Chlorocodide .
Apomorphia .
C18 H20 Cl N02=CH3 C1+c " h17 no2 .
It appeared of interest to examine the action of hydrobromic acid under similar circumstances , and for this purpose Messrs. Macfarlane , of Edinburgh , with their wonted liberality , put a considerable quantity of pure codeia at the writer 's disposal .
The aqueous hydrobromic acid employed was obtained by the action of II2 S on Br in presence of water , and subsequent rectification over pulverised KBr ; it was free from S04 H2 and other sulphur compounds , had a sp. gr. of about 1*5 , and contained about 48 per cent , of H Br .
When codeia is heated with from three to six times its weight of this acid , either on a water-bath or to gentle ebullition over a flame , the liquid , which at first produces no precipitate with solution of carbonate of soda , gradually darkens in colour , and acquires the property of yielding a dense white precipitate with this reagent .
No appreciable quantity of methyl * Proc. Hoy .
Soc. vols.xvii .
p. 460 , xviii .
p. 83 .

