]\gt ; 236 Mr. S. .
Hough .
On the Application of On the ication of Harmonic Analysis to the Dynamical Theory of the Tides .
Part I. On Laplace 's Oscillations of the First Species , ' and on the Dynamics of Ocean Currents By S. S. HOUGH , M.A. , Fello w of St. John 's College and Isaac Newton Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor G. H. DARWIN , .
Received March 12 , \mdash ; Read Apri18 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
By a transformation of the differential equations of Poincare* for the oscillations of a rotating mass of liquid , an equation for the idal oscillations of the ocean is obtained in a form similar to that employed by Laplace .
] this equation it is deduced that if the surface-value of the disturbing potential which gives rise to the oscillations is expressible as a series of zonal harmonics in the , , provided the depth ) a function of the latitude alone , } height of the -waves will also be expressible as a series of zonal rmonics ; if this series take form , the following relation connecting suocessive 's is shown to hold good when the depth is uniform:\mdash ; . . . .
, where denotes the " " speed\ldquo ; of the oscillation dealt with , the angular velocity of rotation , the density of the water and the mean density of the earth respectively , the depth , and the earth 's radius .
A similar relation connecting three successive 's is also shown to hold good if the depth be a function of the latitude given by the formula , where denotes the 2 .
If we put all the 's zero in the formula , we may eliminate * Acta Math vol. 7 , p. 356 .
, book 4 , Analysis to the amical Theory of the Tides .
the 's and obtain an equation for the determination of the periods of free oscillation of zonal type .
This equalion will in general be of a character , and will be expressible by means nonting continued fractions .
ence of the continued fractions which occur is , however , very apid so long as the depth of the water is not materially less than that which occul .
S on the earth , and this fact enables us to pproximate to the roots numerically by process of and eat facility .
The type of bion as indicated by the height of the s/ lrface-waves is then determined by calculating the atios of successive 's by menns of the formul . .
Numerical results are given in the pnpcr for four different values of , corresponding to depths of about 7260 , 14:520 , 29,040 , and 58,080 feet .
For , the periods of free oscillation of ( ype to even values of the uffixes ud to be\mdash ; 18 mins .
, ll lnins .
, 1 mins .
, 9 ) mins .
, for the unsymmetrical types the periods 30 mins .
, ) mins .
, mins .
3 .
If retain the the equations , these eqnations will serve to determine 's in the thus to evaluate the of the forced tides resuiting from a given disturbing nlost important tion is in which all the except , and is small in compnrison with method of procedure is then similal ' to that adopted b ) Professor Darwin*for the discussion of -period tides , and the numerical reSultSal.e found on to with his , but the lytical form in the pear i. The sel.ies of zollal monics by which cxpressed vttys c with gre idit y tho ) of Profcssor Darwin , while wo has of being able to iltclude in the analysis the effect of attraction of vatcr .
Some further results lativoly to the forcod tides in ocean of riable in the ) aper .
4 .
The illed f. tho forced tides .
period indicate the tides do ) tend townrds .
" " equilibrium\ldquo ; values when the period of bing .
force is .
This cumstance , at sight appeal .
S to be at the general laws of stenls , has been explained by Professor Lamb as a conseqnence of the that the tenl is oscillations of inIinitely long , or We probably ]lave examples of these free steady motions * .
Brit ) TidGS , S18 .
odynamics , ' S198 .
238 Harmonic Analysis and the Theory of the Tides .
ocean currsnts , and it is therefore of interest to examine the nature of the free steady motions which could exist on a rotating globe .
Tt is shown that so long as the depth is uniform the only steady motions possibie ars those in which the parbicles of water move along parallels of latitude , while , if the depth be variable , the lines of the possible steady motions coincide with the lines const .
, where denotes the depth and the sine of the latitude .
5 .
Tbese currents differ materially from the actual currents of the ocean , and the difference is probably to be explained from the fact that the density of the water has been treated as uniform , whel.eas the density of the ocean varies from point to point in consequence of differences of temperature , salinity , \amp ; c. These variations density been claimed by some authorities as the sole cause by which ocean currents are maintained , but as free currents could exist , and would almost certainly be excited by such causes as the winds , even if there were no variations in the density , it is improbable that such is the case , though there can be no doubt that the density-variations play an important role in modifying the possible forms of the free steady motions , and thus determining the course which the currents nrsue .
6 .
Though these currents have been descl'ibed as " " free they could not exist in nature without some distnrbing force in consequence of the action of viscosity .
If , however , the coefficient of viscosity of the water be sufficiently small , a very small amount of disturbing force will be sufficient to excite and maintain them .
As an example of the manner in which they could be maintained by a small tnrbance , an attempt is made to estimate the effects of the unequal distribution of rainfall and evaporation over the surface of the earth .
It is shown that this cause will give rise to a slow current from ths poles towards the equator of quite insensible amount , and not changing time to time ; but , in addition to this flo , there will be seb up currents along the free stream lines which , in he absence of friction , would increase uniformly with the time .
When the wate is viscous , the latter currents will , however , eventually a magnitude equal to which they wouId acquire in a period equal to tlJe modultls of decay of the type of motion set up , afte ] .
which will remain steady .
Such ents might attain a magnitude comparable with the actual CUl.rents of the ocean if the modulus of decay of auy of the types of cul.rent motion be as long as venty years , and as this value for the modulus of decay is not improbable , it is concluded that such causes as unequal distribution of rainfall are sufficient to givo rise to currents quite comparable with those lvhich exist on the earth .

