478 Mr. L. Hill .
The Influence of Increased Atmospheric Although no sound classification can be based on one single organ , a striking concordance exists between an attempted arrangement of the Mammalia according to the Fundus oculi and the most modern classification .
The cases of disagreement are wonderfully few .
These are restricted to the following:\#151 ; Chrysothrix leans towards the Arctopitheci .
I find it necessary to separate the Galagos from the rest of the Lemurs\#151 ; at least , as a subfamily .
In the smaller Carnivores it is advisable to establish a separate family , the Cynididce , to include the otherwise viverrine genera , Cynictis and Galictis , together with Mephitis , hitherto placed with the Mus-telidse .
The Sciuromorpha should be divided into Sciuridse and Ptero-myidse , and Castor should decidedly be removed into the Hystricomorpha group , perhaps into the vicinity of the Octodontidae .
The Bats rank very low so far as the eye is concerned , possibly on account of their nocturnal habits .
Among the Marsupials the Diprotodontia are decidedly lower than the Polyprotodontia chiefly on account of the high degree of development of the eyes of the Didelphidae and Dasyuridae .
Since we meet with genera of the lowest type along with others of the highest type of retinal vascularisation , and again some without and others with the additional relic or specialisation of a Tapetum , it follows that the details of the vascularisation and of the Tapetum have been developed independently in the various main branches of the Mammalia .
In fine , the whole Fundus oculi affords a striking illustration of the working of progressive evolution , an example all the more valuable , since it illustrates the direct modifying effect of external factors upon a highly specialised organ\#151 ; in the present case the continued influence of light upon the eye .
" The Influence of Increased Atmospheric Pressure on the Circulation of the Blood .
( Preliminary Note .
) " By Leonard Hill , M.B. Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. Received March 22 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1900 " .
Paul Bert* recorded the arterial pressure in two dogs which he introduced , together with the kymograph , into a chamber , and submitted to a + pressure of 53 cm .
Hg .
The atmospheric pressure was raised to this height in the course of three-quarters of an hour .
The mean arterial pressure rose in one dog 16 mm. Hg .
, in the other 46 mm. Hg .
; the pulse frequency fell in the first from 216 to 200 , and the respiration from 41 to 29 per minute .
The respiratory oscillations of blood-pressure became increased .
Bert ascribes the results * ' l'ression BaromStrique , ' Paris , 1878 , p. 838 .
Pressure on the Circulation of the .
as due to the diminution of the volume of the intestines\#151 ; which results from the compression of the intestinal gas\#151 ; and the consequent increased play of the intrathoracic organs .
He was confirmed in this opinion by the fact that the substitution of oxygen for air made no difference in the results .
A. Smith* attributes the symptoms which arise in caisson workers partly to the effect of the increased pressure on the nervous tissue , and partly to the congestion of the blood in the neural axis .
He supposes that the blood is driven by the compressed air from the periphery to the cranio-vertebral cavity .
This mechanical explanation of caisson disease is contrary to the supposition which , theoretically , seems correct , viz. , that the atmospheric pressure is equally transmitted by the blood to all parts .
I have put the matter to the test of experiment .
Method.\#151 ; An ansesthetised dog or cat is placed at the bottom of an autoclave after the insertion of a cannula in the carotid artery , and , in some cases , of one in the vena cava superior , has been carried out .
The cannulse are connected with Hg .
monometers , and these , together with a slow-movement recording drum , are also placed in the autoclave .
The drum is then started and the monometers set to record the arterial and venous pressures .
The lid of the autoclave is next screwed on , an oxygen bottle connected with the inlet tube and the pressure in the autoclave rapidly raised to 4- two atmospheres ( 30 lbs. ) .
The outlet tap is finally opened , the pressure rapidly lowered , the lid taken off , and the record observed .
The times of increasing and diminishing atmospheric pressure are noted with a watch .
The whole operation only takes two or three minutes .
Results.\#151 ; Although exposed to this rapid change of atmospheric pressure , the circulation of the blood scarcely varies .
The arterial pressure and venous pressures either continue at the same level or very slightly fall .
The respiratory oscillations are increased , and the pulse becomes slightly less frequent .
The gas injected contains , roughly , 80per cent , oxygen , and thus the oxygen tension is raised from 21 per cent , to about 190 per cent , of an atmosphere .
The results are the same whether compressed air or oxygen are employed .
Conclusion.\#151 ; The mechanical congestion theory of caisson disease is untenable .
The expenses of this research have been met by a grant from the Royal Society Government Grant .
* Article " Caisson Disease , " 'Allbutt 's System of Medicine , ' vol. 7 , p- 38 , 1899 .

