4 Mr. F. Darwin on the Protrusion of [ Mar. 1 , traversed by the current .
They show also that when these liquid nonconductors are mixed with the feeble conductor alcohol , the conductivity of the mixture is greater than that of alcohol alone , which offers at least a partial clue to the readiness with which such mixtures are decomposed by the .copper-zinc couple .
The very considerable development of heat in these liquids , which conduct the electric current with great difficulty , is a circumstance worthy of notice .
In these cases it is evident that it does not result from any chemical change , because the decomposition , if any thing at all , is utterly insignificant in amount .
II .
uOn the Protrusion of Protoplasmic Filaments from the Glandular Hairs of the Common Teasel ( By Francis Darwin , M.B. Communicated by Charles Darwin , F.R.S. Received January 30 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The protoplasmic structures described in the following communication are connected with the glandular hairs or trichomes found on both surfaces of the leaf of the common teasel ( sylvestris ) .
The trichomes are of two kinds , differing in a marked manner in shape .
The form of gland from which alone the protoplasmic filaments issue is shown in the diagram .
The gland consists of a multicellular pear-shaped head , supported on a cylindrical unicellular stalk which rests on a projecting epidermic cell .
The whole structure projects about ^ of a millimetre ( -dk inch ) above the surface of the leaf .
The filaments issue from inside the gland-cells , reaching the surrounding medium by passing through the external cell-wall of the gland .
The point where protrusion takes place is on the summit of the gland , and usually at the point of junction of several radiating cells at the centre of its dome-like surface .
The act of protrusion is rapidly effected ; a previously naked gland may be seen to send forth a minute thread of trembling protoplasm , projecting from its summit freely into the surrounding water .
The filament grows by clearly visible increments , and may ultimately attain the length of nearly one millimetre .
The filaments appear to pass through the substance of the external cell-wall of the glands , as no apertures to allow of their passage have been observed .
Under normal circumstances the filament presents the appearance of a delicate and elongated thread slightly clubbed at its free end , and animated by the perpetual tremble of Brownian movement .
The distal end of the filament is often attached to the gland , thus forming a loop .
Extremely delicate filaments of great length are often seen entangled in elaborate and complex knots , or several filaments may be seen issuing from a single gland .
1877 .
] Protoplasmic Filaments from the Teasel .
5 The substance of which the filaments are composed is gelatinous , transparent , highly refracting , and devoid of granules .
It is in a great measure soluble in alcohol , is stained by tincture of alkanet , and not blackened by osmic acid , and is coloured yellow by iodine .
These reactions , when combined with results of various physiological tests , show that the filaments contain resinous matter in some way suspended in protoplasm .
The most remarkable point in the behaviour of the filaments is their power of violently contracting .
The act of contraction commences by the filament becoming shorter and thicker at a number of nearly equidistant points , situated close together near the free end of the filament .
The curious beading thus produced spreads rapidly down the filament , which ultimately runs violently together into a ball seated on the top of the gland .
In other cases contraction takes place without any previous appearance of beading .
Filaments frequently break loose but retain their vitality , and are still capable of contraction although separated from their parent glands ; and this observation is of importance , as proving that the movements of the filaments are not governed by forces residing within the glands , but that the filaments are composed of an essentially contractile substance .
The contraction of the filaments is produced by the following causes:\#151 ; Dilute acids ( from 1 to \#163 ; per cent.)\#151 ; Sulphuric , hydrochloric , acetic , citric , and osrnic acids .
Dilute alkaline solutions ( | to | per cent.)\#151 ; Carbonates of ammonia , sodium , potassium .
Solutions of gold-chloride | per cent. , silver nitrate | per cent. , sulphate of quinine T\j- per cent. , citrate of strychnia ( about ) \#163 ; per cent. , camphor -jJjj- per cent. , the poison of the cobra ( about ) | per cent , , iodine | per cent. Glycerine .
Methylated spirits .
Vapour of chloroform .
Heat .
The temperatures at which the filaments contract are rather variable , but are all below 57 ' C. Electricity .
The induced current causes contraction .
Mechanical stimulation.\#151 ; The filaments contract when pressure is made on the cover-glass .
The evidence derived from the experiments , of which the results are here briefly summarized , appears to be strongly in favour of the view that the filaments contain true living protoplasm , and that the sudden movement above described is a true act of contraction ; for if the latter hypothesis is rejected , the only remaining view is that the filaments are so constituted as to be capable of undergoing coagulation , by which contractility is mechanically simulated .
But it seems inconceivable that reagents of widely different natures , such as dilute solutions of acetic acid , of camphor , and 6 Mr. F. Darwin on the Protrusion of [ Mar. 1 , of goid-cliloride , should produce identical chemical effects .
Osmic acid is well known to kill protoplasmic structures without making them contract .
This characteristic reaction holds good with the filaments of the teasel when treated with sufficiently powerful solutions of osmic acid ( e. g. 1 per cent. ) .
When killed in an extended position , they cannot be made to contract with strong acetic acid .
This observation is of importance in another way ; for'it proves that the violent movements caused by dilute acetic acid are of a " vital , " and not simply of a chemical nature .
Moreover the general character of the reagents and other causes ( such as heat , \amp ; c. ) by which contraction is produced is quite consistent with the belief that the filaments are protoplasmic in nature .
An important series of phenomena are produced by the following fluids:\#151 ; dilute solutions ( | or | per cent. ) of carbonates of ammonia , potassium , and sodium , and infusion of raw meat .
If a filament under the microscope is treated with a drop of \ per cent , solution of carbonate of ammonia , the following changes occur .
The filament contracts , but almost instantly recovers itself , and is once more protruded .
The filament , however , does not regain its original form or general appearance ; instead of consisting of thin elongated ropes of a highly refracting substance , it is converted into balloon-like or sausage-shaped masses of very transparent , lowly refracting matter .
These transparent masses are remarkable for the spontaneous changes of form and other quasi-amoeboid movements which occur among them .
Dilute infusions of meat cause a similar effect , astonishing quantities of transparent matter being produced .
It has been shown that the filaments are protoplasmic bodies , containing a large quantity of resinous matter .
The question next arises , with what process in plant-physiology is the protrusion of filaments homologous ?
The leaf-glands of the teasel are similar in general structure to many glandular hairs which produce resinous and slimy secretions , and , like these glands , they contain bright drops of secreted resin lying in the pentres of the gland-cells ; they also resemble many glandular hairs in being often capped with accumulations of secreted matter .
Now these accumulations stain red with alkanet , yellow with iodine , and are largely soluble in alcohol ; that is to say , they consist of substances which have the same reactions as the filaments .
There is , in fact , no doubt that the caps of resinous matter on the teasel-glands are produced by the accumulation of dead filaments .
According to this view , the act of protrusion is essentially a process of secretion : the resin issues from the gland-cells , mingled with a certain amount of true protoplasm ; and it is only from the death of the living or protoplasmic part of the filaments that the resinous accumulation results .
This view of the act of protrusion corresponds with the theory of secretion held by some physiologists , viz. that secreted matter is produced by the dissolution or death of proto- 1877 .
] Protoplasmic Filaments from the Teasel .
7 plasm\#151 ; that , for instance , the oil in a fat-cell is the result of the disintegration of a plastid or individualized mass of protoplasm formed in the cell by endogenous cell-formation .
The protrusion of protoplasmic filaments from the glands of the teasel appears to bear an obscure relationship to the phenomena of " aggregation " in Drosera and several other plants .
In both processes we have homogeneous highly refracting protoplasmic masses , which undergo amoeboid movements , and are in some unknown way connected with the absorption of nitrogenous matter .
In Drosera the protoplasmic masses remain within certain cells ; in Dipsacus they are protruded through the cell-wall .
When we begin to inquire as to the function of the filaments , the answer seems at first to be sufficiently plain ; but this is very far from being the case .
The connate leaves of the teasel form cup-like cavities , which become full of rain and dew and in which many drowned insects accumulate .
The glands at the base of the leaves are thus exposed to a highly nitrogenous fluid .
And since such fluids are known to produce a remarkable effect on the filaments exposed to them , it seems probable that the filaments are in some way connected with the assimilation of food material .
It seems probable that , either with or without the assistance of their filaments , the glands do absorb some nitrogenous matter ; for changes of their cell-contents occasionally occur which can only thus be interpreted .
But on account of the rarity and uncertainty of these aggregation changes within the glands , but little weight must be allowed to the phenomena as a proof of the absorbing capacity of the glands .
Some other points in the structure of the plant render it almost certain that the connate leaves are specially adapted to serve some useful purpose .
Kerner is probably right in believing that the " cups " of the teasel are of use to the plant in keeping off nectarstealing ants and other wingless insects ; but unless this is their only function , it seems probable that the connate leaves have been to a certain extent adapted for the capture of insects whose decaying remains are absorbed by the plant .
The leaves are smooth and steeply inclined , and form a pair of treacherous slides leading down to a pool of water .
It is worthy of note that the leaves of the first year 's growth , which do not form cups , are not smooth , but bristle with long sharp hairs ; moreover in Dipsacus pilosus the leaves ( of the second year 's growth ) are not sufficiently connate to form cups , and they also are rough with hairs .
These facts seem to show that the smoothness of the second-year leaves in D. sylvestris is a specially acquired quality .
Another special point of structure in D. sylvestris may be noted .
The stems are everywhere armed with sharp prickles , except where they are covered by the water in the " cups ; " and here they are quite smooth , so that no ladder of escape is afforded to the drowning victims .
Even if we grant from the above considerations that the filaments protruded from the Mr. W. H. M. Christie on the [ Mar. 1 , glands are in some way connected with the absorption of nitrogenous matter from the putrid fluid in the cups , we are far from understanding the whole of the problem ; for precisely similar glands are found on the seedling leaves of D.sylvestris and on the second year 's leaves of D.pilosus ; and as no " cups " are formed in either of these cases , the filaments cannot be connected with absorption of the products of decay .
The only view which suggests itself is that the filaments absorb ammonia from the dew and rain .
Eecent researches have shown that certain leaves have the power of absorbing an appreciable quantity of ammonia ; and this fact lends some probability to the view above advanced .
To recapitulate .
Protoplasmic filaments are protruded from the leaf-glands of the teasel ; and the only theory which seems at all capable of connecting the observed facts is the following :\#151 ; That the glands on the teasel were aboriginally ( i. e. in the ancestors of the Dipsacacese ) mere resin-excreting organs ; that the protoplasm which comes forth was originally a necessary concomitant of the secreted matters , but that , from coming in contact with nitrogenous fluids , it became gradually adapted to retain its vitality and to take on itself an absorptive function ; and that this power , originally developed in relation to the ammonia in rain and dew , was further developed in relation to the decaying fluid accumulating within the connate leaves of the plant .
III .
" On the Magnifying-power of the Half-prism as a means of obtaining great Dispersion , and on the General Theory of the ' Half-prism Spectroscope .
' " By W. H. M. Christie , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Huggins .
Received January 25 , 1877 .
On account of the oblique incidence of the rays on the isosceles prism and the consequent diminution of the aperture of the collimator , a " halfprism , " formed by dividing an isosceles prism by a plane perpendicular to the base , has frequently been employed for the commencement of the train of prisms , and also for the end , though apparently , without due consideration of the effect of the " half-prism " on the dispersion of the other prisms preceding in the train .
This is a matter of some importance ; for it will be found that when the angles of incidence and emergence are unequal ( as in the half-prism ) , the angular separation between two pencils of parallel rays is increased or diminished according as the angle of emergence is greater or less than the angle of incidence .
In consequence of this the angle between the pencils corresponding to any two lines in the spectrum , e. g.the two D lines , will be increased by passing through a half-prism ( independently of the effect of ordinary dispersion ) if the perpendicular face be turned towards the slit .
At the same time the

