248 Dr. J. E. Reynolds .
On [ May \#187 ; It will be seen that the 1st string is thicker , and the 3rd thinner and the 4th much lighter than the theoretical values .
Therefore the tension of the 1st string would be greater , and that of the 3rd and 4th strings less than they should be in relation to that of the 2nd string .
The greater flexural rigidity of the 4th string will have a small effect in the direction of making the vibrations quicker , and therefore of making the tension required less .
By means of a mechanical contrivance I found the weights necessary to deflect the strings to the same amount when the violin was in tune .
The results agreed with the tensions which the sizes of the strings showed they would require to give fifths .
A violin strung with strings of the theoretical size was very unsatisfactory in tone .
The explanation of this departure of the sizes of the strings which long experience has shown to be practically most suitable , from the values they should have from theory , lies probably in the circumstance that the height of the bridge is different for the different strings .
It is obvious , where the bridge is high , there is a greater downward ' pressure .
By this modification of the sizes of the strings there is not the greater pressure on the 4th string side of the bridge , which would otherwise be the ease .
On the contrary , the pressure is less , which may assist the setting of the belly into vibration .
There is also the circumstance that the strings which go over a high part of the bridge stand farther from the finger-board , and have therefore to be pressed through a greater distance , which would require more force than is required for the other strings , if the tension were not less .
II .
" Note on the Atomic Weight of Grlucinum or Beryllium.'* By , J. Emerson Reynolds , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1883 .
In the course of a paper by Professor Humpidge on the above subject , recently read before the Society , * the author seeks to decide between the atomic weight 9'2 for beryllium , resulting from my comparison of the atomic heat of the element with that of silver and aluminium , t and the value 13 8 , arrived at by MMX Nilson and Pettersson by determination of specific heat .
J The difference between the two possible atomic weights is so small , and the difficulties met with in * Read April 12 , 1883 .
t " Chemical News , " vol. xxxv , p. 124 , and vol. .
xlii , p. 273 .
A slight modification of the method of comparison adopted is described in detail in the writer 's " Experimental Chemistry " ( Longmans ) , Part I , p. 59 .
X " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 37 .
Atomic Weight of Glucinum or Beryllium.249* Uemptinff to prepare even a few decigrams of beryllium are so great , ^ both sets of experiments have been objected to on the ground , , imonffst others , that the metal employed was in all cases impure .
My .JLn admittedly contained a minute quantity of platinum , and the Proportion of known impurity in one of MM .
Wilson and Pettersson s knecimens reached 13 per cent. Unfortunately , Professor Humpidge s Uetal though claimed to be the purest yet prepared , is shown by knalvsis to be rather less pure than one of the specimens employed by kilson and Pettersson , hence the experiments lately made known to the Society do not carry the inquiry beyond the point previously reached , save in one noteworthy particular , namely , that there appears-to be a considerable , though irregular , rise in specific heat of the element as the proportion of impurity diminishes ; but the value is still much below that required for the atomic weight 9*2 .
Thus tor a specimen of beryllium which contained 13 per cent , of impurity Wilson and Pettersson obtained the specific heat 0 4084 between 0 ' and 100 ' C. , and for a less impure specimen 0*425 ; while !
Professor Humpidge , in one of his experiments with a material that contained 6 per cent , of impurity , found the specific heat to be nearly i0'45 ( 0*4497 ) .
In all these cases corrections were applied which were believed to eliminate the effects due to the impurities known to be present\#151 ; in part mechanically mixed with the metal and partly alloyed with it .
These results all tend in one direction , that is to say , to apparent gain in specific heat with increased purity of material , and in so far they approach the still higher value obtained in my old experiments .
But even if the latter had not been made , the apparent rise in specific heat shown by the other determinations , would suggest the necessity for appeal to data afforded by beryllium of undoubted purity .
In order that further experiments should now be considered decisive , the metal should not only be pure , but in the form of a homogeneous mass obtained by fusion , as the specimen I used was an apparently uncrystalline product of fusion , while the metal employed by Wilson and Pettersson chiefly consisted of " aggregations of little prismatic needles , " mixed with the oxide .
The most promising source of pure beryllium is the double fluoride of the element and potassium , but I have not hitherto succeeded in making the product of reduction form a button of metal .
Professor Hartley has very recently made known some highly interesting spectroscopic evidence* affecting the position of beryllium amongst the metals , and so directly bearing on the jmestion of its-valence that I may be permitted to refer to the results ifi this place .
If the atomic weight of beryllium be 13*8 , the element is a triad and the formula of its oxide must be Be203 .
The latter therefore resembles * In a communication read before the Chemical Society , April 19 , 1883 .
250 Mr. W. H. Preece .
Effects of Temperature on [ May 24 alumina in being a sesquioxide , but is at once distinguished as it does not afford an alum-like double sulphate as do alumina and its homo-logues , and has comparatively little in common with that group , save the tendency to form highly basic salts .
Mlson and Pettersson , * admitting this , maintain that beryllium is a leading member of another group of triads , which includes the rare earth-metals scandium , yttrium , lanthanum , didymium , terbium , erbium , \amp ; c. The recent spectroscopic evidence above referred to is opposed to this contention , as the spectrum of beryllium is stated to be wholly unlike the spectra afforded by the rare earth-metals with which it is classed in the memoir ubove cited .
If , then , beryllium does not find a place in the two known families of metallic triads , or pseudo-triads , it must stand alone ; and in any case as a triad it is outside Mendeleef 's classification .
But if the atomic weight of beryllium be 9'2 , according to my result , the metal is a diad and the symbol for its oxide is BeO .
It is , therefore , the first member of Mendeleef 's second series of elements .
This position is quite in accordance with the spectroscopic evidence obtained by Professor Hartley , from which he concludes that " beryllium is the first member of a diad series of elements , of which in all probability calcium , .strontium , and barium are homologues .
" III .
" The Effects of Temperature on the Electromotive Force and Resistance of Batteries .
II .
" By William Henry Preece , F.R.S. Received May 21 , 1883 .
In the discussion on my previous paper read on February 22 , 1883 , it was suggested that I should continue the observations on the influence of temperature to the case of secondary batteries .
I am indebted to Mr. Tribe for one of his cells made so as to fit my apparatus , and charged at different times with solutions of various degrees of saturation .
The negative element of this cell consisted of pure peroxide of lead in the form of a plate 4 inches square carried in a grooved frame , from one end of which projected the necessary conductor .
This element was placed between two plates of finely divided lead likewise 4 inches square .
These were joined together , and formed the positive element of the cell .
Each half of the positive plate was about a quarter of an inch distant from the negative , and all three plates were encased in a thin specially prepared fabric .
The elements were contained in a leaden case , a/ nd the liquid was sulphuric acid of the strengths given in the various experiments .
This cell was placed inside the cylindrical copper vessel used in the previous experiments , and precisely the same method of observation was adopted .
The results are given in * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 50 .

