On the Discovery of Palladium ; with Observations on other Substances found with Platina .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read July 4 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 316 .
] In this paper the author relates circumstantially the series of operations by which he was led to the original discovery of palladium ; and as he had an opportunity during the solution of a considerable quantity of platina , of making many observations that have not occurred to others , he undertakes , on the present occasion , to mention those which are most worthy of notice .
He remarks , that the gold which is usually found with platina is a constituent part of the ore of platina itself , when the grains are carefully selected .
The metals iridium and osmium , on the contrary , which were extracted by Mr. Tenant from the black powder that remains after solution of the ore of platina , Dr. Wollaston observes , are not only to be found in that powder which is extricated by solution from the interior of the grains of crude platina , but there exist also other grains originally distinct from those of platina , and consisting of these metals only .
These grains , which he considers as the proper ore of iridium mineralized by osmium , are harder than those of platina , are more brittle under the hammer , and when broken appear to be laminated .
The specific gravity of these grains , he says , is very remarkable , being greater than that of the ore of platina , which in his experiments has not exceeded 17-7 , while that of the former is as much as 19 5 .
It would naturally be supposed that such a density might arise from the presence of a large quantity of platina in them ; but the author did not succeed in obtaining any platina from these grains .
Among the various substances that may be separated from the ore of platina by washing , he notices also certain minute crystals of the colour of the ruby .
Of these he gives a particular description , but does not undertake the analysis , on account of the very small quantity which he could obtain .
The author next proceeds to the solution of platina , from which he first precipitates the greater part of the platina pure , by sal ammoniac , and the remainder in an impure state by iron , a second metallic precipitate , which he observes consists of various metals intermixed .
It was in attempting to analyse this second metallic precipitate , that he first discovered palladium .
After separating from it a quantity of lead , and some iron by muriatic acid , and dissolving out some copper by dilute nitrous acid , he was endeavouring to extract the remainder of the copper by a stronger nitrous acid , when he remarked that the colour of the solution , instead of being blue , as before , turned to a dark brown , in consequence of the solution of some other metallic ingredient .
The first thought which occurred to him was , that some iron had remained , and had communicated this colour to the solution ; but when he considered that this substance had been more slowly acted upon than copper , he relinquished that hypothesis , and , endeavouring to precipitate the metal by a clean plate of copper , he obtained a black powder , which was redissolved in nitrous acid , and formed a red solution .
The solubility of this precipitate in nitrous acid , showed that it did not consist either of gold or platina : the colour of the solution proved equally that it was neither silver nor mercury ; and since the precipitation by copper excluded the supposition of all other known metals , he presumed that he was engaged with a new metallic body , but was not fully satisfied of its existence until he had afterwards precipitated it by mercury , with which it formed an amalgam .
By treating this amalgam he procured , in a pure state , the metal to which he afterwards gave the name Palladium , from the planet which had been discovered , nearly at the same time , by Dr. Olbers .
There were various considerations arising out of the preceding experiments , which induced him to consider this as a new simple metal ; but since it was possible he might be deceived , he undertook a course of experiments for the purpose of obviating all possible objections .
He formed alloys with many different metals , dissolved it in various acids , and , having recovered it from the alloys and solutions so formed , he found it to remain unaltered , retaining its original properties , being nearly infusible by itself , but easily fused with sulphur , with arsenic , or with phosphorus ; soluble in nitrous acid , and precipitated from thence by green sulphate of iron , by muriate of tin , by prussiates , and by hydro-sulphurets .
When he found all his endeavours to decompose this substance ineffectual , he became more confident of its being a new simple metal , and accordingly published a concise delineation of its character , but avoided directing the attention of chemists to the source from whence it had been obtained , and thereby reserved to himself a jore deliberate examination of many phenomena that yet remained unexplained in the analysis of platina , by which he was subsequently led to the discovery of rhodium , another metallic substance , already published in the last volume of our Transactions .

