IV .
" On the Differential Equations which determine the form of the Roots of Algebraic Equations .
" By GEORGE BOOLE , F. R.S. , Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Cork .
Received April 27 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) Mr. Harley* has recently shown that any root of the equation yI-a/ y+ ( n-1 ) x=0 satisfies the differential equation ( D~~2n7L ) ( D~3~ ; 2). .
( n2n1 en1 ) _= ) YD(D-1 ) is extremely small .
It will , indeed , be a most remarkable conclusion , should it ultimately prove that the primary solvable forms in question stand in some absolute connexion with a certain class of algebraic equations .
The following paper is a contribution to the general theory under the aspect last mentioned .
In endeavouring to solve Mr. HIarley 's equation by definite integrals , I was led to perceive its relation to a more general equation , and to make this the subject of investigation .
The results will be presented in the following order : First , I shall show that if u stand for the mnth power of any root of the algebraic equation i -xy nl_ 1=0 , then u , considered as a function of x , will satisfy the differential equation [ D ] +1 D+m ?
l1 ( n 1 enlu-O , LnJ nz n/ in which e0= x Dd and the notation [ a]b_a ( a-I ) ( a-2). .
( a-b+ I ) is adopted .
Secondly , I shall show that for particular values of m , the above equation admits of an immediate first integral , constituting a differential equation of the n-Ith order , and that the results obtained by Mr. Harley are particular cases of this depressed equation , their difference of form arising from difference of determination of the arbitrary constant .
Thirdly , I shall solve the general differential equation by definite integrals .
Fourthly , I shall determine the arbitrary constants of the solution so as to express the mnth power of that real root of the proposed algebraic equation which reduces to 1 when x=O .
The differential equation which forms the chief subject of these investigations certainly occupies anl important place , if not one of exclusive importance , in the theory of that large class of differential equations of which the type is expressed in ( 3 ) .
At present , I am not aware of the existence of any differential equations of that particular type which admit of finite solution at all otherwise than by an ultimate reduction to the form in question , or by a resolution into linear equations of the first order .
It constitutes , in fact , a generalization of the form ua8(D-2 ) 2 +n 20c= given in my memoir " I On a General Method in Analysis " ( Philosophical Transactions for 1844 , part 2 ) .

