]\gt ; Messrs. J. J. Thomson and H. F. Newall .
wide to give a good average .
I doubt if such variations attributed wholly to experimental error ; bnt on the other hand , difficuIt to imagine that potassium should have more thau dispersion equivalent , while in the same.series of dissolved has apparently oue and the same refraction equivalent .
I am disposed to believe , that the uncertainty lies in the value of radicles to which the metal is joined ; but this will require extended research .
It is also an important enquiry : what extent does the tion of the dispersion equivalent affict the refraction equivalent the line ?
On this question , and others of a similar nature , shortly to submit a further communication .
I think it will be sufficiently obvious that the specific dispersive energy of a body is a physical property analogous to , but distinct from , its refractive ensrgy , and that it is capable in like manner of light upon chemical structure .
XXL ' ' On the Rate at which Electlicity leaks through which are Bad Conductors of \ldquo ; By J. THOIISON , , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics in University of Cambridge , and H. F. NEWALL , Assistant Demonstrator in Physics , idge .
May 26 , 1887 .
The experiments here described were undertaken to test the rate at which elsctricity leaks through a liquid which electricity badly , does or does not follow Ohm 's law .
The method used is described Iater ou ; it consists in by a battery a difference of potential of about 100 volts between plates of a condenser , in which the dielectric is ths faulty insulator be experimented on , then disconnecting the battery , and with an electrometer the rate at which the difference of dies away .
Let and be the differences of potential at the beginning and of an interval , and let If be the capacity of the condenser , the quantity of which has leaked away in the time , then ; at which Electrieity leaks through Liquids .
The rate of leak , so that , say. .
Now if the conduction follows Ohm 's will be Ohm 's law will be obeyed if be constant .
The tables given on show how nearly constant is .
To test the accuracy of the law , we have\mdash ; that a change of 1 per cent. in will correspond to a change of per cent. in 2 , and a deviation from Ohm 's law to this extent .
The Jiquids were benzene , olive oil , carbon bisulphide , and paraffin oil .
We could detect no deviation from Ohm 's law for the first three of these substances , though the difference of potential fell from 500 scale divisions to 20 .
For paraffln oil , however , the conductivity seemed slightly greater when the difference of potential was large than when it was small .
The departure from Ohm 's law even in this case was small .
Quincke*has found that when the E.M.F. is comparable with that which would cause a spark to pass through the liquid , Ohm 's law ceases to be even approximately obeyed .
Thus , for carbon bisulphide , when the E.M.F. was C.G.S. units , the curlent was when the E.M.F. was , the current was showin that with large electromotive forces the current increases much more rapidly than the E.M.F. With the small electromotive forces which we used , the current , however , is proportional to the , showing that when the Fi .
M.F. comparable with that required to produce a spark through the liquid , other methods of dissipating the energy of the elecbric field must exist besides those which are active in conductors conveying a current according to Ohm 's law .
We found that carbon bisulphide showed a phenomenon analogous to electric absorption , the only case we know where this has been obserwed in a liquid dielectric .
The conductivity of all the liquids on we expex.imented increases as the temperature rises , so that in this respect they behave like electrolytes .
* ' Wiedemann , Annalen , ' vol. 28 , p. 529 .
Messrs. J. J. Thomson and H. F. Newal ) Description Appcvratus .
The condenser consisted of two copper cylinders , the outer being formed into a pot 12 inches , and 4 inches in closed at the bottom by a rounded end carfnlly worked inside , inner one , 8 inches long and 3 inches in diameter , being r*ounded off at both top and bottom , and carefully worked outside .
outer cylinder was held in position on a bracket attached to a wall , and was always connected to earth thro gh the gas-pipes ; inner one was suspended by a silk thread , 5 feet long , also from bracket on the wall , vertically above the first , and was connected an insulated mercury cup by means of a thick wire , which was fully soldered into the top of the cylinder , and bent into a loop attach the silk thread to .
T.he figure shows the arrangement in tion , the outer cylinder being represented as transparent , to show inner cylinder and attachment .
The liquid to be experimented on was ponred into the outer pot , and the inner cylinder was lowered into it , both being.set vertical by means of a plumb-line .
It was found necessary to load the inner cylinder with shot to kee , p it sunk in the liquid .
The suspension by a single silk thread was found satisfactor7 , as it insulated well , and avoided the introductioh of solid dielectrics , and the suspended cylinder if disturbed came again to rest after a very few oscillations .
The condenser was charged by means of a number ( varying between 20\mdash ; 80 ) of Post Office Daniell cells , and Thomson 's ( quadrant electroRate at which Etectr ity leaks through Liquids .
( White 's was used to show the fall of potential as the leaked through the faulty insulating liquids .
To facilitate changes of connexion between the condenser , the and the cells , a paraffin block , with holes bored through it and filled with clean mercury , was used .
The whole arrangement apparatus was as shown in fig. 2 .
In testing the arrangement the condenssr was used as an air-condenser , and it was found that there were signs of some electrical absorption .
These were traced to the paraffin key and the wire connecting it with the electrometer .
The key was improved by the use of vexy clean mercury , and very careful amalgamation of the ends of the copper wire dipping into the mercury cups .
The wire at first used to connect the cup A in the key with the electrometer was covered with gutta-percha , and the whole passed through lead pipe , put to earth to protect it eleotrically from the experimentsr .
But it was found that there was absorption on ging and the appearancs of residual charge on discharging the electrometsr ; the gutta-perchacovered wire was therefore discarded , and bare wire stretched bebween insulating points , and this was then protected electrically by a shield of zinc , enclosing it and put to earth .
In testing , the condenser was colmected with the electrometer by laying a piece of wire , so as .
to connect the cups and A. A second piece of wire carefnlly insulated in a bar of paraffiu which was attached to a metal handle was then used to connect the cells by the cup to

