XXII .
Spplernentary Report on the best Method of proportioning l1pe Excise upon Spirituous Liquors .
By Clzarles Blagden , 1ff .
D. S. R. 3 .
Read Jtlne 283 179e .
1 HE Report to uthich this paper is intended as a Supplement , was drawn up ) and published , when our experiments on the specific gravities of the spirituous llquors had been continued only to equal quarltities of alcohol and xvater by weight .
It was foreseerl that a further set of experiments , on more dilute liquors , 8.would be wanted : but as these must necessarily take up a considerable time , the persolas concerned thought it best to sublnit those already made to the public ; that if any errors or inaccuracies should be discovered they might be arroided , and if anyf persorl should suggest a better method it might be adopted , in the subsequent proceedings .
Want of ice , and some other hinderances , prevented the experimentsXon what n1ay be called watery lllixtures from being entered upon earlier than the beg ; inning of last winter .
-Fresh spirit was dist ; illed for the purpose by Mr. SCHMEISSER , who brought some of it totlse specific gravity of 8I7 ; but it had a smell somenvhat dif-ferent from that employed in the former experiments , and nor approaching ; to the odour of ether .
On inquiry we found , that , whereas Dr. DOLLFUSS had drawn the former spirit offvegetable alkali , Mr. SCHAXEISSER used GLAUSER S sal-t calcined by exposure to the air .
In order to try whether .
this circumstance made any diSeretlce in the quality of the new spirit , Mr. C ; ILPIN mixed some of it wi-th an equal srtight o\#163 ; w-atel , and afterwards brought the tnixture to all the different temperatures from got to ooo ' , operating in the same manner as 11e had done with Dr DOLLFUSS'S spirit ; when the specitic gras ities were found to come out the same Mr. SCHMEISSERJS alcohol therefore , was used without hesitaticon .
As no censure had tret been passed on otar fortner experiments , the salve general method was pursued fo-r the new series ; with a small variatione however , the resora of ^hich is now to be ex ^ plained .
In the Report on the first experiments I lntroduced the folIowing remark .
s ; It must be ( 3bserved , that Mr. GILPIN used the same mixture throughout all the diflerent tem &lt; ; peratures , heating it up --from go ' to aoo ' ; hence some- " small error in its strength may havPe been occasioned , in the c ; higher degrees , by more spIri ; t evaporating than water ; lout &lt; ; this , it is believed , must have been trifling , and greater in( ' conrenience would probably have resulted from interposing sc a fresh mixture}9 The coilsciousness that such a sour\#163 ; e of error existed , made us desirous of ascertaining to what quantity it amoullted , by some previous experiments , before the nes set should be begun .
Tlleseshewed that it ntas somewhat greater than had been supposedy though not such as ever to cause a diSerenceof more than a fslngle unit in the third place of deci--mals , even in the temperature of zoo- ' .
The greatest diSerence found , sn tI ; at degree of heat , was , ooog+ ; and in a heat of 80 ' , the highest to which the tables for use were to -becarrieds it amounted only to , ooo64- ; being ln both cases greatest when the luis-ture consisted of 85 p-arts of water , by weigElt , to Oo of alcohol .
This di : Seretace llouZever , small as it was , aSordewd suffilcient reason--for repeating all the former experiments , conjoinisly witha the llew set for dilute spirits , so as to make o:ze entire series , with the same spiritn and execllftedtllroughout in an utliforin rllanIler .
To obviate the error from evaporation in this series , and as( &gt; ertain svha6t each-o mixture really lost of its strength during that operation , all the fluids were first weighed at 60 ' , bfore they weret cooledR downS to 30 ' , from:3o ' to 100 ' , they were weighed atevery ^S de grees , as before , consequelatly a second time at 60 ' ; and-lastly } after having been heated to woo ' , they were again brought to 60 ' , and weighed at that point a third time .
The difference between these Breights , at the beginning , middle , and end of the experiment , was applied , in due proportion , to corred : the nunlbers of the respectiVe intervals between them ; by which means it is believed that the error arising from the gradual evaporation of the spirit , during the experiment , has beets -made to disappear .
Mr. GILPIN having also observed , that the spirits adhering to the sides of the funnel which he employed to fill up the weighing-bottle , grew weak by the evaporation , and so diluted the fresh spirit poured into the fiunrlel , determined to use a smaller instrument ; of this kind7 namely , such an otle as would not hold more than grains of spilit ; in which a less surface being left wet when the spirit ran outs the error from this cause sroulel be proportionably diminished .
Under all these precautions were the experiments made , of which the results -are given in the following tables .
They are drawn up exactly like the tables in the former Report X btt , a$ alcohol was talien for the fixed quantity in the first halfs so water is taken fi the fixed quantity in the last halfs whichs therefore ) cotssists of mistures containlng all lOQ grRitlS of waters with 9S grains go 8 , and so orl successively9 ofb alt cohol , till the last column is pure water .
Thisarrangement will be clear to every one ) on reading the title of each columa of the tablesO Clshe first t8blt giV@S the actual weightsX at the even degreea of the therluometer , corrected for the eva poration ; and the $econd table gives the specific gravities9 calculated from those weightsg mtith the same allowances and &gt; rrections as were specified in the original Report*WI !
EN ail the experiments had been coznpletedr , -md thetables here given vrere justbrought into -ord-er an inmnious member of the Royal Societyn scarcKy less celeJ3rated for his theoretical knowledge than his Aill ; as an artistf publislled a pamphlet containing censures on our -sSrst experiments , and proposing other methqds as ml ; ich fsuperior to those we had adopted .
In drawing up the Reporty in order to avoid pro lixity , , the reasons forXchoosing some of the methods were not givenn where they -dld not seem likely to be a suject of controversy ; -but tEls pamphlet-A-ulakes it -necessary to -assigll the tnotives of our p-reference that the p0blic nay judge how fir we are justified ... Flrst as to the proportions -vf the mistures ; which wer-e made by taking an equal qualltity of spirit in evay instance , and adding to it successively larger quantiti of distilled water as far as to an equM weight ; with the intention of going through the watery mixtures : on the same plan .
This was done for the following reasons : * Because it was thought more likely to avoid blllriler-s , if the quantity of only one of the ingredients was changeable that the operator might not have his attention distracted with computing and weighing out two different quantities for each -mixturee s. Because by this plogression the experimelats come closer together about the medium degreesof strength .
where it was supposed most accursy would be-warlted for practice .
$* A-s it sntas thought- , fromitlle first , that the best method of adjusti7ng the duty would be by the absolute qualatity of alcohol itl anXy mixture rather Xk An account of Experiments to determine thq Specific Gravity of Fluids ; by } .
RAMSDEN .
L.ondotl , I7gz .
than the proportion per cent. or the strength above or under proofS we judged it nzost expelient not to make the mixture3 on either vf the tsz7o ]ast nentioned principles , lest an undue bias should be givelato the judgmenty merely from the mode c)f cond ; ucting the experimentsc N-o -real difficulty call ariseill formingtables of any kiad out-cyff these ntlFrubels , which aXwer-t-t an * ; harmorlic pliogression of strength .
If the ope ; i be tedsous , to obtain the specific gravity of any sizgle proportionS per cesZ .
-or ( ?
therwise , of alcohol and rater , the trotkble of reductng the whole to a table would not k great ) and hen once executed Xit is dqone for ever .
0 Secondly , though the chief reasons for makin ; g the mixture$ by weighty rather than by measuren have been already assigned in the Report , it is now proper toi add sonatthing further ol-z that suhject .
Nothing but aritllmetic is required for obtail1ing the proportions by tnsure withtlle utmost exactness ; and , as ila the former case , though the operation be a little : laborioussingly , the computastion of the entire table will be sufficiell-tlyReasy Such a table was recom-mended in the Reporty and GAn be constructed byanyperson talerably conversant with figures .
In the pamphlet nlentioned abovey a lxethod is recotnmendedfor proportioSuing the mistur@s by measure , while the acttlal quarltity of spirit is determined by weight,.at one operation .
The idea is ingenious , but in the executiola it seems liable to the fbllowing objections. .
The difficulty of obtaining the full penetrationofth-e spi.rit anci water , in a vessel of the shape trequired , wheres by the intervention of such a narrow neck as is wantedthe free agitation of the flalid must be greatly impeded 2 .
The clifficultyM of getting out all the air-bubbless produced by the shaking &amp;c. in a vessel so shaped .
3 .
The difficultyX or almost zmpossibilityX of bringing the tnixture , bythe repeated fillings , to coincide exactly with the ring on the neck : for this purpose , the last quantities of water must be put in by surJh small portions at a time that scarcely any atten tionwill beequaltothe task ; and if at lengthtoomuch be addedy it cannotsbe taken out again without in3uring in some degrees the accuracy of the experiment which depends on combining the precise quantity of water requirexl to fill the wssel up to the marksj whenVthe full penetration has taken place .
+* In opening the vessel so frequently , to fill it up , a sensible part of the spirit must be lost by evaporatiollw Sj Moreover it is necessary that , at the end of the operation , the flllid should throughout be exactly of the same temperature as the purespirit was in the preparatory experiment with it alone ; the difficulty of effiecting and determining which must be obvious to every one especlally ill a vessel of such a size and shape Lastlyf , as this ressel is much less manageable than the wetgh-ing-bottle , I think the fluid in it cannot be brought to the uark with nearly the sanae degree of accuracy .
These objectionS joined to the consideration that no objt can be attaitled in this way , which was not accomplished , with at least equal accuraty , and probably no greater trouble , by weighing the spirit and water separately , determined us not to attempt any experil:nents with such an instrument .
Thirdly , it isnosr to be explained why we undertook to deterlmine the eSect of heat and cold on the fluidsj by means of ... the weighing-bottle .
When , preparatory to our former experlmentss that part of the subject came under consideration themethod of ascertairling the expansions and contractions by means of instrunaents like thermometers , was one of the first that presented itsel\#163 ; 0n this occasion , Mr. CAGFEND-ISH was so good as to mention sotue experiments made by his fathern Lord CISARLES CkVENDISH , u7ith iastruments oll that constrtlction , for the srery purpose of determ-ining the exparlsion of fluids , and other experilalents , of the same nature , laarre appeared in prillt .
The ap ?
lication of this methodf , how everX was thought liable to a most tmportant objection , from the great diiculty thereis of being sure that the spirits in the ball are exactly of the temperature indicated by the thermo Ineter placed by -th side of it .
To enlarge upon this cir cumstance would be useless -as every person accustomed Dto experiments is ass7are that all possible precautions , joinedt toi the utrnost attention ill the observer , are scarcely sufEcient to ensure this essentialcorrespondence of temperature ; which sea-son alone would have induced us : to prefer the method ; by weightP But there utats another argument o ?
hich still more fUrcibly determinec !
us in fa-your of the latter ; namelyX that the eSect of mixture was found in that way , and therefore we were Sstlre it admitted of asgreat accuracy as was obtained in the otheor part of the experiments .
Greaternicety , if there had been a methotl which allowed of it , would have been. .
superflucous ; and to incur the risk of less accuracy would laasre been ab-solutely unjllstifiable .
By using the sallle luethod to deternlirle all the changes of specific gravity , those from heat as well as those from misture , an uniformity is &gt; given to the who]e -series of experimentss and no O-I1epart of the results is liable to more suspicion than allother .
Till this time , I believes the instrumVents with a b-all and tube , for trying expansions , had all been constructed in the tuatlner of real thermometersy to be filled by means of heat S Xwhich clrcumstance , and the trouble attending it was a furl ; her objection to their use : but in the patnphlet aboGrernen-tioned-are propmed tvo instruments of this nature , to be filled WItilOlltheat ; one being providedwithtwoequaltubesthe other with a short tube closed by a stopper .
Tllough botl these itlstrumettsX aald especially the latter seemed liable tc } several causes of error , yet to remove doubts , and brilag the method by weigh-t to a proper test , WIr .
GILPIN was desired to m.ake some trials with them ; WIr .
1lAMSDEN ) the author of the pamphlet , having been previously requested to go nthrcough the xvllole series oSexperitnerts on his osvrl platl , whicwh he declined to clo .
With no small difficulty Mr. GILPIN got the ixastru ments esecuted ; and al1 accotlnt of the txperiments to which 311e subjected them shall be given , in his own srorcIs , at the end of tTiis Pveport .
Frotn the pertl$al of that accoun:t9 it will be perceivecS , that the disagreement of the experiments among themseIves , is nearly equal to the quarltity by which any of them diier from the expsansionsas obtairled by weiglat .
( )n the svholeX horenter , they give the expansion sonzewhat less , the cause of svlaich I do 1lot see ; pssibly it lmay clepend ors the flvlid in the 1tal1 not being qu ; te laeated and cooledto the degree shown by the accompanying thermometer ; possibly the-re na-ay be a diSe ?
lsence in the ex-pansion of the glass with rvllicln the instruments srrere made9 and that of the weighingt 1030ttle ) fUr these numbers are in both cases the excess of the expansion of the fluicl over gla ; or it may turtl on sonie other circumstance , which has eluded our attetltion .
Whatever may have occasioned the deficiency , I think the experiments wsill satisfy any olae , that most deperdence is to be placed o11 the weiglats ; and at all events the difference is not such as to aSect-*the third place of decim-als , or consequetltly the tables intendedtfor practice .
: ProbabW no one will be surprised that we did not think it necessary t ; o make trial of the weighing-lsottle proposed by Mr. RAMSDEN .
Not to mention other irlconarelliences attend-+ ing this instrvisnelltt it seems evident that a piece of flat glass } with a thermometer projecting fE:oul it , laid down on the luouth --of a bottle , cannot be depended upon to push oFthe superfluous Iiquor equally every time ; and that the proper wiping of the bottle , when so covered , will be attetlded with diHiculties of vario:us kinds .
: It is true that the experiments by weigIlt took up much tim:e } and denianded g3reat patience .
But I believe that similar experiments , by the methods recommended in the pam ?
hlet , if executed with the same degree of accuracy would be found fino-t much less tedious .
However this may be , it is a -consideration of no consequence , provided theresults at length obtainedbe right .
Now of these there is no direct impeachment , though sQtne doubts are thrown upon them , on four accounts ; eYaporatio n ; condensation of moisture on the weighing-bottle ; difficulty of shaklng the fluid in it ; and ulicertainty in determining the heat .
With regard to evaporationX its effiectX we hope , has been ascertainedv and allow-ed for , in these new experimentsv All error frotncondensation of moisture was obviated by careful wiping .
The fluid in the weighing-bottle as agitated , and mixed together bymeans of the thermometer immersed in it @ besides hich a considerable degree of motion could be given.to it , even when the ball was very nearly fuII , Xby sllaking the bottle in various directions Mr. GILPIN}S known accuracy , and the care he bestowed or these experimet &lt; ts , must gain hllzz credit for har7ing duly svatcTted the therrnotneter , so as to seize the moment when it gave the just telnperature of the mass .
Clur experiments sxsZere finisTzed- , arsd the tables now given were drawn out , before the appeaLrance of Mr. RAMSDENS pamphlet .
Yet it any of the methods he proposed had been really prefErable , the whole series shoulel have beenv repeated on that new plarl , and particularly with regard- &lt; to the eSect of heat , if the insttumelzts for that purpose lead been found to answer the -character given of them .
But as this mTas not the caseS we have thought it right to adhere to an obvious and direct lYlethod , in +hich however laborious , there can be no fallacys and the unifortnity of which ensures an equal degree of acCUraCY tO everY Part Of the OPeratiOn .
SINCE the publication of our first tables , several hydrometers have been contrived , With the view of applying : them to prac tice .
Those of copper were reJected on accourlt of the errors which small and almost imperceptible bruises in them lnighe Qccasion ; and for the same reason no othwer metal was tried ; .
Mr. GILPIN has constructed two areometers of glass ; one wit } &lt; the stem so divided , that an easy table may be formed for theX correction necessary according to the diSerent weights with which it is used ; the other with a separate scale fixed to each of those eighths , made to slip into the tubular stem of the instrument ; a contrivance that obviates the necessity of a table .
Adr .
RAMSDEN also hm invellted a balance 11ydro lueter utitll several varieties of constructions one of which isdetailed in his patnphlet .
All the above-mentioned instru ments appear to have fully as much accuracy as can be required ; of their preferenceila other respects , the practical offlcers who are to use them will probably be found the best Judges .
That which Ct1 be managed with the greatest fsi:-lity and qu-ickness9 uthich affords the least opportunity of naking blunclers , which is least liable to be out of order , and shows most immediately if it be so , will unquestionably prove the most satisfactory in practice Hydrometer s having a thermzometer enclosed xvithin tlem must be cotldemned , as not ascer -ta-ining the tenaperature with the requisite ptecision .
An attempt to supersede the use of the thermometer by e:tnploying for the hydrometer , a substaruce whichv " has the same ' ; : degree of expansion as the mean of the compoutlds , ' ' is very inconsi$tent with the lvin-d of accuracy sought by these expe riments .
As an allowance is made9 in our table of specificgravities , for the expansion and contraction of the glass weighing-bottie , this must be tal &lt; en into the account with every areometer , when ever much exactness is desired .
I azn still of opinion , that the best Vay of laying the duty wollld be dlrectly on the quatltity of alcohol contained in any composition ; and though -this tnigllt require too great a change in the-present system of laws , yet as the same principle may be applied in estimating the strength , and taking stock , I will just mention in hat manner thevcoluputation can be most readily made- .
From the numbers in this Supplenentary Report a table MtlSt be constructeKd , on the top of which shall stand every degree of heat from +O or So , to 80j and at the side every specific gravityfrom,82qS to , ooo , if it be thought necessary , or as much less as will answer thepurpose .
The places of this table are to be filled up , by computings from the original talules , the quantity by measure of alcohol-and water corresponding to each specific grasrity and degree of heat ; and then dividing the quantity of alcohol by the whole quantity of the lmixture- ; thus a decimal lllultiplier will be obtained , which must be put in the compartment of the table formed by the intersection of the columlls of that particular heat and specific gravity Wllen vlae table is completed il this manner we hafire only to naultiply the colltents of any cask , as found on gauging it , by the decimal number given irs the table for the heat and specific gra^rity of the liquors and the product will be the qvlantity of ptlre alcohol it contains .
Hence it must be evident , that no objection can lie to this method on account of difficulty ; if , hosgever , it be thought mote eligible , for difEerent reasons , to adopt the proportion of alcohol per cent ... , the relation of strength to the point of proof ; or any other methoul the nulnbers in thiS Report nvill equally apply to all , with the prcuper variation in the table to be elnpIoyed .
As to the calculation necessary-for constrllcting the table of decirnal -multipliers , what has been already said with respect to the reduction of the harmonic numbers applic-s also to it .
T.he labour of the whole will not be very great , and it is once for all .
The process is rzot an approxinzation , but a plairl arithmetical conputations which rzzay be carried on true to as m-alXy decimal places as thve experiments will allosrc For this pur4 pose , indeed , it is necessary to have the weight of a krlown measure of water .
Mr. RAMSDEN'S method of obtailaing this , by mean$ of a cylinder , i-s far preferable to that of hollow cubes , paXicularly if the ends of the cylinder can be made as true as the body of it .
But in applying this instrument to:fix the term of proofs as proposed Sby that gentlemall it must 4NIDCCXCI I. 3 L be rezmetnbered , that 71b ; .
oz. is not the weight of a gallon of proof spirit , lout of spirit one to siix under proof .
( )n that proporticon the valtle of proof was computed in the Report by the same rule as Mr. RAMSDEN has-since givetl , but wIocll it was not though necessary to detail at full length .
Although , as was said in tTie original Reportg l ; Ile quantity &lt; 3f extraneotls substances usually found in spirituous liquors ( l-oes not increase their specify gravity so much as to be wortlte consxdelration of GovernmentX yet this is htr no means the case V1At &lt; such substances are added intentiorlally .
The effect of allL &lt; alies is srell kno n. Mr. RAMS-DEN'S experiments show how great a changeof specific gravity is produced bysugara when dissolved pIentifully it.l weak liquors ; and ill an expe rinaent made b5y order of the Board of Excisen sI4 part of sugarn pilt into very strong spirit , reduced its apparelat strength no less\ than 1 ; 7 per cent. by CLARKE'S -hydrometer .
I colacltlde with olservirg , that the execution of the expe riments , : and of the computations , rested entirely with Mr GILPIN , who is respansible for their accuracy ) and entitled to the praise they-may be found to merit .
For the gelaeral plan , as well as the particular methods adopted , I llold myself accountable , and have now so fully stated lie reasonsf tfUr what I recommended to be done , that arly competent::l3erson wiI1 readily jud-ge of their validity .
It1 this and the foregoing Report ?
I have purposely avoided a]l philosophical deductions , ^andacomparisoll withlormer experiments ; that the narrative might not be load:ed with any fioreign matter to itlterfereJ witho the practical object for uZhicll this btlsiness was vIndertakenO .
S\\ C : BLAGDE0N .
Sppendix to the foregoing Report .
ha Letter from Mre George Gilpina CIks A SP to Charles Blagden ; M. Va Sc Re S SIR , HAVE ING cotupleted two instruments for trying the expatisivIl of fluids , a-ccording to the lmLethod described by Mr. RAMSDEN rihth a stopper going into a tube on the side of the ball , I now present yotl wsth an account of the experiments which t have made with them , that y ; ou may judge l:ow far such irustrumentsl are deserving of notice .
The scale of the longesta admits of 26 of an inch for each clegree of the thertBLometer , and that of the shortest , t7 of ala inch for each degree .
TIley rear charged with pure spirit : some of the same that was 1nade use of in our experiments by weight , specific gravity,82q14 : and having hung them up by the side of each other to a piece of wood , provided for the purpose , with the same sensible thermometer hallging between them that was used in our experiments by weight , I immersed them in a large quantity of water brought tc ) the temperature of 60t , the one quiteX the other nearly , to the height of the fluid ill the stem .
In this water they were suffiered to continue until they had arrived at that temperature , when it ssras observed that the spirit in the tube of the long instrunent stood at , or the commencezaent of the scale , and the spirit in the tube of the short instrument stood at I otoSoo -above o which I shall in future for shortrless call , G and which it s*s evident must be applied with tree sign f or to the qualltity of expan sion or contrtzetion resad offfrol-n above or 13e]our o , as the case may require .
Tlley sere then cooled down to so ' of teXperature , when the spirit in the long instrument was found to stand 16S , and that in the short itlstrument &lt; 6$ , ^ below o. tRhey were again t3rotlght to the tenz-perature of 6OO , when the slirit in the long instrument was found to stand o , Ss belowo at1ditl the silort il-lstrument ns above o as beforeO They sverethet1 heated to 100 ' , when the spirit sn the long itlstrument stood 'At 231 and ill the short instrument at 2S3 , above oI brought theIn agaln to the temperature of 60 ' , urhen the spirit in the lolxg instrutae2lt wras found to statld S below o , but in the short instrtl : meant , , above o as before .
It appears from these experiments , that the -contraction of the spirit , by the longillstrument , for 30 degrees , that is , in cooling dos^rn from 60 ' to SQ ' , iS 16S ; but in heating it up ag-aill to 60 ' , it was found laot to stand at otas before , hut o , below ; therefore the expansion will be oaly 164 , ,g , the mean is 164 , S. The expansion , on heating up from 60 ' to loo ' , will be 2g+0 , =231,5 ; hut oll cooling down from woo ' to 60t agai , the spirit was found to sixlk 3 below o , therefore it will be gs+3 = gs4 ; the mean 232,7t5 , and the total expansion , from so ' to zoo'_ 397 , , ; differing from ours , in defect , by 0 , QS of a divissn .
But the two methods of heating from 6o ' to 100 ' , andxoling from lOOQ to 6o ' again , differ 2 , s dirisiorlsJ o ; r so many ten thousandeth parts of the who ] of SThe contraction from 6o ' to So ' , by the short instru ent , appe ars to be 16S , $+ n5-16s , and the expansiotly on heating up agaitl to 60 ' , the same ; :from 6ot IQ 100 ' it was found to be 2$ssS 1a5 = g , , ard the corwtraction in cooling down again @om loot to 60t the same ; t1zo total expallsion 397 &gt; fliiring from ours o , gG of a dirrision , in deXctt After the above experiments , the itlstruments srere emptied of the spirit ; and another day , preparatortT to a repetition of the experimerltss they were charged again with solve of the sa.*tXe spirit that was used beforet and the results found to be 1 as tollow .
Havi1lg brought the1n to the tempEerature of 60 ' , I found the spirit i}1 the log instrument to stand $ above o , and in the short instrulnent S below o. They were the11 cooled down to goQ of temwratlJre ; hell the spirit in the long instrument was found to sink to 161 , , and intthe short instrum@nt to 67 , .
They were afterwards brought back again to 60 ' of temperature &gt; when the spirit in the long instru ; meant stood g ahove Q , as befbre , but ill the short instrut meant SSS below o. I then heated themh 1lp to 1ooS , and it stood ifin the long instrument at 234 and in the short instruanent at 2X6 , above Q. They were again brought to the teruperature of 60 ' ; when it was foutld tov stand in the long gnstrument at o , and in the short ilutrumerit at s below o. From the above exp !
eriments it appears , that the contracwtion btr elong instrunllent , .
ill cooling down fFom 60 ' to zo ' , is 161,5+3 = 164445 , and the expansion in heating up again to 6O ' , the same .
Ill heating up from 60 ' to loo9 , 2t$+-3 = 291 ; .
but the contraction in cooling dot n agaln from loo ' to 60 ' ? ?
234 ; the mean is 23s , S and the total exparlsion Eom sQ ' to 100'=397 , difiring from the experiments by weight oS58 of a-division in deict : but if no mean be talien , the deficietlv wilI appear greater .
The difference between heating up from 60t to tooo , and cooling down agaitl from zoo ' to 60 ' , is g divisions , still more considerable in this than in the last experiment .
The contraction by the short instrument frolxl 60V to go ' is o67 , -S z62 , , and the expalasion from go ' to 60Q again 167 , , , = 162 ; the mean is 162,25* 0I1 heating up from Co ' to loo ' , 226+5,5-23l,5 ; bUt the contraction , in -cooling down again from loo ' to 60 ' ras 226+8 234 ; the naean is 232n75 , and the total expansion from go ' to too ' 39S ; differing from the experiments by weight 2n55 divisions , in defect .
The difference between heating up from 60 ' to 1Q0 ' and cooling down ( agairl from 1o0 ' to 60 ' , iS 2 , S divisions .
Afier the above experiments had been made , the spirit was let out , and , orl a subsequent day , the two instruluents were charged again with some of the same spirit , previous to the following experiments .
After bringing the spirit to the temperature of 600 , I found it to stand in the lollg instrunlent 6 above o , and in the short instrument 2 below o. I cooled the spirit down to So ' , when it stood in the long instrument tS8 , ,t , and itl the short instrulnent z66 , below o. I brought it again to the temperature of 60 ' , and it returned to the same } ?
oint it set off from , itl both instruments .
The spirit wras then heated to ioo ' ; when it rose in the long instrument to 235 , and in the short instrument to sSo , above o. I cooled it again to the temperature of 60 ' when it was found to stand in the long instrument 1 below o. , and in the short instrument S below o. It appears , from the above experiments , that the contraction by the long instrument in cooling down from 60 ' to 30 ' is 1$8 , +6-164n5 and the expansion in heating uis from go ' to 60 ' the same .
( )11 heating up to oo ' 235-6 = 229n but the contraction in cooling down from loo ' to 60 ' again , 235+ 1= 236 ; the mean is 232)5 , and the total expansion from SO ' to lo &amp; = Sgyso ; d ; Seritzg from the experiments by weight o &gt; SS of a division , ila defect ; 131lt the two methods inS this experiment differ rrery considerably from each other namely , by no less a quarltity t ; han 7 divisions .
In this experiment it seetns pro bable either that svlne of the spirit leaked out at the stoppery or that the stopper shifted its place a little , so as to enlarge the capacity of the ball .
The contraction by the short ilstrument in cooling dowr Drom 60 ' to goowas o66-2-164 , and the expansion on heat ing up again to 60 ' , the same .
On heating up to 100'g-it WS. .
M30 + 2-232 ) but on cooling down again to 60 the contraction was 23Q +5 = 235 ; the mean i$ 23g,5 &gt; and the total expansion 397,5 ; diSering from the experiments by weight o , oS of a division ) in flefect .
tlohe difference between the two methodsy in heating up frotxl 60 ' ) to OQN and in cooling down again from loo ' to 60 ' , is three divisions : .
It appears from the preceding experiments , that the mean of all the quantities found an heating up fromSoo to loo ' , and cooling dosvll from loo ' to go ' , talken togethers gives for the total expansion 3g7,1d by the long instrum:ent , arad tSg6 , S by the short ; the former errs oggy and the latterlZo$ divisions iiSom the experiments by wreigllt , in cIefect It appears also that the mean of all thequantities lound by the long instru meant , on heating up from go ' to lQOQ , giveS for thetotal es-pansion 4534 divisiolas less than the luean of all the quantities taken togethern by the same ixtrutreentn on GQOling doMrn kOlM ooo ' to 30t ; and the difference by the slaort instrument is 2d tisions .
The following experi-ments were made with a mixture of equal parts of spirit and water by veight ; the spirit being of the strength already rn-erltioned- .
Having ; charged the instruments writh the mixture3 and brought it tQ the temperature of 6o ' , it was found to stand in bo-th of them at 1 above o. The mixture was then cc)oled donvn to qgo ' when it stood at 125 below o in the long instrument , and S4 , ^ in the short instrulnent .
It was brought back to the temperature of 60 ' , when , in the lollg itlstrument st wasfound to staxld , -above os but ila the short instrument 1-above o as before .
I heated the mixture to 1ooo , when it stood Sat 18s ill ?
the long instrament , and in the silort instrument at o8S , , above o. The misture was aRerwards cooled to the -temperature of 60 ' , when it was foutld to stand 2-,5 above o in the long instrument , Sbut in the short instrtlment , below os After keeping them upright in the tetnperature of 60 ' two hours , I found the ixture in the long instrument to stand S -above o , but in the short instrument 2 below o. I heated it again to loo ' ) when the mixture itl the long instrument -uras found to stand 18S , and in the silort instrument 180 , above o. I brolaght the m-ixture again to the temperatllre of fo ' , and found it stalld , ^ above o in the long instrument and in the short instrument 4 below ox From the abolre experiments the contraction of this misture from 60 ' to 30 ' utas found to be , by the long instrulnents w2G+ o= -26- ; but in heating 1lp to 60 ' again , the expansion\ was l2S + l , -z26 , ; the naean is 126,25 .
The expansion in heating up from 60t to loo ' was 18s 1S-183 , lut the contraction in cooling down from loo to 6g'iwas o8 , -2,5o 182,.In heating up again to 100 ' it was 185 -S-o82 , but in cooling down again to 60o , o85-2 , ,5 ; _ 182 , ; the mean of the four is o8Xs62 , and the total expansion from So ' to zoo'= So8S87 ; differing from the experimelats by weigh oy division , in defect .
The dif ference -bietween the two methods of heating up from 60 ' to zoo ' , ancI cooling down again from 100 ' to 60 ' , taking a mere of the two heatings , and the mean of the two coolings , is o &gt; 1 .
* Ot a ( llVlSlOll .
The contraction by the small instrument : , in cooling down ftonl 6-o ' to 3o ' , was 1X4 &gt; S + 1-1es , .
On heating up again to 6o ' , the expallsion was the same .
In heating up from 6c &gt; to ooo ' the expansion vas z8S , 1= o82 , ; but in cooling down to 60 ' again , the contraction was 18gg,5 + n$ = 1-8S*+ In heating again up to 10( ; ) ' , the expansion was 180 , $ +X= 18e , ng ; -but ill cooling again to 60 ' the contraction was ; 80 &gt; 5 +4= 184 , .
Tlle mean of these four gives 18:3 , G2 , for the expansion from 603 to 1oo ; and therefore the total expatlsion from go ' to loo ' will be 30931$ differing from the expansion found by the experiments by weight,45 divisionw in defect .
The difference between the mean of the two heatings up from 60 to lGO ' and the two coolings down from oo ' to Go ' again , is 2,7s divisions .
The mixture made use of in the above experiment was now emptied out , and the instrulnents were charged with mole of the same , preparatory to the following experiments .
The mixture being brought to the tsemperatute of 60 ' , was found to stand in each of the instruments at sS above o. It was then cooled doz7vn to so ' , and it stood in the long illSt7U meant 24 , j , and in the ; short instrument ze5 , below o. It was then brought back to t1Xe teuperature of 60o and it stood n the long tnstrument 15 above o as before but ill the short slastruluerit s above o only .
I heated the mixture to loo ' wheta= it stood at- &lt; 82ns in the long instrument ) and in the short instrument at 183 &gt; ,5 above Q The mixture was aftert wards brought to the temperature of 60a , when it was found : to stand at o in both instruments It appears from the preceding e-xperinlents that the con traction of this mixture in cooling down from 6O ' to 3o ' by the long instrument is 124 , +s_ 1262 and the expansiotl itl heating up againfrom 30\#162 ; to 60t the same .
The expansion ill heating up from 60Q to zootwas 182,5-nS = 18t ; but in cooling down again from loot to 60t , the contraction was a82 , ; the-mean is i8l,7s , and the total expansion from 30 to lOQ ' will be So7 &gt; 7S diiring from the experima ItS by weight,82 divisions in defect .
The diirence between ; the two methods of heating up from 6c ) ' to 100 ' , and cooling douril agaia kom lOoo to 60 ' , is l , dirrision .
The contraction of the mixture in cooling down from 60\#162 ; to go ' , by the short instrument is l$ + ?
S = 126 , S ; but in lIeating up agaill to 60 ' , the expansion was ttS f1"1 26 ; the mean is 12-6,2SX Wnhe expansion in heating up from 6S to looo was 183as-1 F ; 18g , but in\#163 ; ooling down again from loo ' to 60 ' the contraction was &lt; 8:3 : ; the mean is z83 ; and therefore the total expansiotl from 3ot to loo ' will be 3og,25 , differing from the experiments w weight lgg division , in defectr The differenee between the two luethods oSheating up from 60 ' to 100 ' , and cooling down again kom lOQ ' to 60t is s division ; 0 Z + Et appears from all the preceding experiments with the mixture of equal parts of spirit and snater , that the mean of all the quantities found on heating up from $o ' to loo\#162 ; , and coolang down again from loo'to3oo , taken together is , for th\#162 ; total expansion , :cS,46 by the long instrument , and by the short instrument 309,29 ; the former orrs,91 , and the latteb &gt; ,28 divisions , in defect , from the experiments by weight } and that the mean of all the quantitiesfound by the lorlg in strument , in heating up from Soo to 100 ' , gives for the total tsparlnsion o , division les-s than the mean of all the quanw tities taken together , by the same instrument , in cooling down from 100 ' to 30v .
The difference by the short itlstrument ist -t,83 divisione Although the results found from the preceding experim-t$ &gt; vome nearer those of the-e*periments by weight than might have been expected , considering the many objections that instruments of this kind must naturally present , and the great differences which were actually found among theruselves orl repeating the experiments , espsi-ally in the expansion of pure spirit where the difference has been ec uivalent to,68 grains an weight , UpOll the quantity used in : our experiments with the weighing-bottle ; yet I thirlk , aRer a careful perusal oxf the foregoing facts , I shall not be thought too precipitate when I say , that these instruments rueither d:o nor can possessthat accuracy which we have been led to expectfrom the-m .
; We have seenX in the foregoing expertments , that there ht sometimes been apparently a loss of some part of the fluid , after all alteration of the ; temperature ; at other times there appeared to he no loss at all ; and sometimes there-appeared to be even more spirit in the instruwment than there was ai ; $M X first .
These contradictory facts ntay I apprehend -be ac counted for in the following mannerw The mecharlical operation of grinding a stopper that will fit so delicate a tubes as is here rsecessary , perfectly tights must be acknowledged : to 1 ; )e difficult ; and should it happen to be done accurately , so that none of the &lt; :fluid is lost in one degree of temperature it is very doubtful whether , on exposing this instrument to a differe}t temperature , the expansion would be the same in both the tube and stopper .
It appears most probable } from these experiments , that they actually did }zot expand alike , as perhaps no two:pieces of glass ever do ; and the effiect to be expected.lNrom a less expansion of the stopper than of the tube is , either that some of the fluid would leak out , or that the capacity of e bal } wtould be enlargede But the chief reason svlly there may-sometimes seem to be a loss at other times no loss at -S11 , I apprehend to be , that m:ore of the fluid will adhere to the upper part of the tuben on filling it , at one time than at another .
In the use of this itlstrument also , a small error n}ay arise from the stopper not being always put in exactly alike ; in which case the capacity of the instrument would be altered a and , of course the divisions on its stem would not give the expansion of the fluid accurately .
Care was always taken sn these experiments to put the stopper in z nearly alike as possible &gt; ; but it might not perhaps always be done exac.tly so .
It is also obvious , that experiments with this instrument will -he : affected by another source of error i\#163 ; made in the mallner = , ... .
which is recommended , namely ) by heating the fluid up from 60t to ooo ' , and coollg it down again to sQ':for it MUSt be -evident that the whole length of the tube will then be left nxget Sby the fluid , in sinking from 100 ' to 30'a and consequently theexpansionvill be:madeto appeartoogreat .
The eSect of this circumst-ance will be very considerable ; but in the -use of this instrulment we have no certain means of ascertainw -ing with accuracy the quantity of error occasioned by it , because that quantity falls in with other errors Of this I shall speak more hereafter , itl my remarks on another instrulnent which I constructed , without a stopper , and hich was also recomlnended by the same getltlernan .
THE former experiments were all made with that kind of itastrument which has a tube rising from the side of the ball , with a ground-glass stopper inserted in-to it ; an instruDrtient we ; have seen by no mearls to be considered as sufficiently accu ; rate for ascertaining the expansion of fluids ; I therefore corstructed anotherS similarto the other of the two recommetirSded by Mr RAMS5DEN , which has tsuo tubes rising from .
the ball one on each side IIaving charged this instrutnent with some of thesamespirit which was made use of in the -former experiments , and brought it to the temperature of 60o , the spirit in the two tubes was found : : to stand at 4 .
above o. .
It was then cooled downi to 30 ' ?
when the spirit ln the two Xtubes was found to stand at 161 below Q , the instrument being always so held a.s to bring it to the same point in both tubes I then heated ift up to ooot , and it stood in the tmro tubes at 2g6 above o. I cooled it again to go ' , where :l it wasfound to stawd in the two tubes at r 62 below o. It was agairl heated uep to soo ' , and jot stood in the two tubes at 2 g6 above o. I then brought it again tQ the temperature of 60t , and found 0 it to stand in the two -tubes at no more than 3 above Q. It appears from the above experIments , that the contraction of the spirit from 60 ' to So ' is 161 + 4.--164y , and the expan sion in heating up again to 60 ' , the same .
Orl heating up from 60 ' to loo'g 236 4_ 2g2 , and therefore the total ex pansion from ^go ' to 100 ' iS 397 ; but in cooling down from soo ' to 8'ts the total expallsion will be e36 + 162 = g98 ; the former quantity differs 'SGX in defect , and the latter o,45 of a d-ivision , ill excess from the experiments by weight Nosr it is evident that the method of heating up from 3o ' to iooo can only be admitted asgiving a true result , for it wras found on cooling the spirit down from 100 ' to so ' , that the contraction from 60 ' to so ' had been increased by t ; so much of the fluid being left bellind ill the upper part of the two tubes , as appears con its being heated up again to 6O ' , for then it stood lower in the two tubes by s than it did before ; care having been taken that the upper part of the two tubes should be as dry as possible before the experilllent comluenced , for which purpose the instrument mras charged over night , and constantly kept in a vertical position .
It must also be -obvious that 397 , which was found for the total expansion in heating up from:30 ' to 1ooo , must likew-ise be too great by nearly the same quantity , it having beerlcooled down from 60 ' to:3o ' previous to its -being heated up to:loo ' , as this would tend to make it sink so much lower than it woulcI have done in the first irsstance had that not been the case .
After the above experiments , the spirit was poured out , and prev-io-us to the repeti-ticon of the foregoing experiments on a fu ture day , it was charged with more of the -same spirit which --was used in the former experiments , and the instrument was hung up as beforew Havixlg brought it to the temperature of 60t , the spirit in the twto ttlbes was found to stand at 4i above o. I cooled it dourn to -3Q'y NYhen it stood in the two tubes at s60a$ below oI brought it again to the temperature of 60 ' , and it was founcl to stand in the two tubes at 4 aborre o as before .
It was then heated up to zoo ' , and was found to stand in the tWQ tubes at g6 above or I cooled it down again to SOQ and found it to stand in the two tubes at 162 below o. It was then brought ag ; ain to the temperature of 60 ' and was found to stand in the two tubes at no tno:re than 25 above o. From the preceding experiments it appearsv that the conv traction in cooling down fFom 60 ' to SoQ , is 160 &gt; , +4= 164 , ff &gt; and in heating up ; from gOa to 60 ' again , the expansion was the same .
Ill heating up from 60 ' to zoo9 , the expansion was s36-4-= 232- , therefore the total expansion in heating up from so ' to oo ' will be 396 , $ ; but in cooling down again from lQOQ to So ' , we shall have for the total expansion 236 + 162 398 .
The former quantity of 3963s differs oS in defectn and the latter ov45 of a division in excessa from the experiments by weight : but it is obxriou.s from this , as well as from the preceding experimenta that the metl:lod of heating-up from So ' to oo ' can only give the true expansion as has already been observed for when the spirit is cooled dow7n from Cot to , go ' the expansion will be made greater than it ought to be ; as it was found on setting oK , that the spirit in the tWQ tubes at dot wof temperature stood at 4 above oS and after having -been cooled down to , o ' ) and heated up again to 60 ' it was found to stand the same : but after having been heated up to lso ' and cooled down agairl to O ' the contraction from Co ' to got was found greater lie , , than before ; and oll -heating up to 60 ' again , it was found to stand only 2 , J , instead of 4 , above o It is therefore very reasonable to conclude , that a quantity equal to,5 had adhered to the upper part of the tutesf and no wellgrounded objection can be made tto this , when we consider that 1 division is only equal to , XS of a grain of spirit , in this instrument .
It appears then from the preceding experiments , that the mean of the quantbities found , &gt; oll heating up from SO ' to oo ' , ilzc.luding the error that must arise from some of the fluid adhering to the tube^ , ln cooling it down from 60 ' to 30 ' , previous to its bei-ng heated up from So ' to zoo ' , gives for the total expansion of the spirit 396,7S ; and in cooling down from 100 to goo , Sg8 , o ; the diSerence is 1,2$ : but I have already shewll that this difference is not so great as it would have been had it not been cooled down from 60Q to 30 ' : if the-refore we say , as 232 : 1,25 : : 164 : o,88 , it is evident that the latter quant ; tie must besubtracted from 396,7S , and there will relmain for the totat expartsion of the spirit by this in.strument , ill heating up from so ' to too ' , ^g9$,87s : which is di*erent from the expe-riments by weight 1X68 division , in defect The following are experiments made with the same instrulnent , and a mixture of equal parts of spirit and water , beng some of the same which was used in the former experixnerltse Having charged the instrumentXwith this mlxtures it was inlmecliately put into a vessel of water xYhose tetnperature was 60 ' , and the tnixture-was found to stand in the two tubes at ; g5 above ov I then cooled it down to 30 &gt; , and it sunk to 122 belowo I heated it up to loo ' , when it was found to rise to aS8 above o. It was afterwards brought to the te1nperature : of 6O ' and suffered to remain in that temperature for three hours , when it was found to stand at 6 above Q. It appears fron1 the above experiments , that the contrac tion in cooling doxvn from 60 ' to go ' is 122 + 3,5 = 12S,5 ; and on heating it up to xoo'^ we have for the total expan sion from go ' to loo ' , 122 + 188 = oo ; but it is obvious that this total expansion c.annot be the true one ; for it appears , on suffering the instrument to remain three hours ill the temperature of 60 ' , that it was found to have collected a quaIltity-2 , J , that had ttndoubtedly adhered to the upper part of the tube when charged , and the fluid having arrived at the temperature of 60 ' sooner than what adhered could de scend ) it was of course left behind on cooling the mixture down to go ' ; if therefore that quatltity had been collected while it remained at the temperature of 60o , it ^tould have stood at 6 above o , and the contraction from 60 to So ' swould have been 119 , + 6-12S,5 below o ; and the total expan-sion from 3o ' to lOQ ) =1 19,5 + 188 = go7 , instead of tzo as was foutld l)efore ; and differing from the experiments by weight , o7 divisions , in defect .
The same mixture having been suffered to remain in the instrusment , vjJhich was hung up as be-fore , the following experi- : nents were tried two days a-fterwards .
Havingbrought the mixture to the temperature of 60 ' , it nvas found to stand in the two tubes at , above o. It was cooled down to So ' , and was found to sink to 12Q below o. I then heated it up to 60 ' , and found the misture ila the two tubes to stand at , $ , above o as before .
It was aft-erwards heated up to lov ' wEzen the mixture in the two -tubes wa ; s found to have risen to 187 above o. I again cooled it down to O'g and fouxld -il ; to st:and in the two tubes At 122 below o. Lastly , I heatect it agail1 up to 60 ' , and found it to stand in the two tubes at no more than 4 above o. Fromthe above experiments it appears , that the contraction of the misture in coolilog dowrl from 602 to qgo ' , is 120 + 5)5 2g5,5 ; and the total expansion on heating up from So ' to loo " , irlcluding the error arising from cooling it don from bo ' to So ' will be 120 + 187_ So7 ; but in cooling dowla again from 100 ' t0 30 ' we shall have for the contraction 187 + 122 = 309 .
The former quantity of go7 errs frola the experiments by weight , S7 , and the latter 1 , Gy divisiony in -defect .
13ut by taking a mean of the quaatities found on heatingthe misture up from So ' to lo\#162 ; D ' , including the error arising om some of the fluidileing left adhering to the tuben iri cooling down from 60 ' to So ' previous to its being heated up from-o ' to loo ' , we shall have for the total expansion go7,2Sy and it was found in cooling down from loo ' to go't ; o be gog ; t:heXdiffirence is,7S ; if then we say , as 182 : 1,7 &lt; S : : 125 , t5 : 1,2l , the-last number being subtracted firoln So7,2S , we shall have for the true expansion ill heating up from:30 ' to loo ' , So6 , o+ ; differing from the experimRents by weight , S3 divi , .
* with that kind of instrument which has a tube rising from the side of the ball , to be closed with a stopper .
More accuracy may undoubtedly be expected from experiments made with the other kind of instrument which has two tubes , because one of the inconveniences attending the former is removed in it : but we have seen that even experiments made with this instrument do not bear the same marks of accuracy as the experiments by weight ; nor can this be much wondered at , if it be considered that the trifling error of,027 of an inch , in constructing the instrument , will produce an error of one division , which is equal to 0,24 of a grain on the quantity contained in our weighing-bottle ; and how difficult and uncertain it is in such an instrument to ascertain the exact temperature , by placing a thermometer only by the side of it .
It is not uncommon to see the fluid in the expansion instrument , and the mercury in the thermometer , move contrary ways : and I have more than once observed an alteration in the thermometer , of more than half a degree , when no alteration whatever has been produced in the fluid in the expansion instrument .
Indeed , on the least reflection it must be obvious to every one , that the changes of temperature of the fluid in a ball of 11/ 4 inch diameter , cannot be expected to be so quick as in one of 0,22 of an inch .
It is also of the utmost consequence in making experiments with this instrument , though it will render it extremely tiresome to the experimenter , that it be in continual motion ; for should that precaution not be observed , very considerable errors indeed will take place .
I am , &amp;c. Apartments of the Royal Society , Somerset Place .
G. GILPIN .
3

