]\gt ; The Analogy between 's Theory of the Repulsion of Light .
By G. H. DARWIN , , Plumian Professor and Fellow of Trinity in the University of Cambridge .
( Received May 2 , \mdash ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) I am not aware that anyone has taken the trouble to work out 's theory , except in case where the particles of gross matter , subjected to the bombardment of ultramundane corpuscles , are at a distance apart which is a large multiple of the linear dimensions of either of them .
Some years ' ago I had the curiosity to the case where the particles are near together , and having been reminded of my work by reading Professor Poynting 's paper on the pressure of radiation , have thought it might be worth while to publish my solution , together with some recent additions thereto .
If a corpuscle of mass .
moving with velocity impinges on a plane surface , so that the inclination of its di1ection of motion before impact to the normal to the surface is , it communicates to the surface normal momentum kmv , and tangential momentum k'my ; where is 1 for complete inelasticity , and 2 for perfect elasticity , and is for perfect smoothness and 1 for perfect roughness .
In the following paper the effects are investigated of the bombardment by corpuscles of two spheres , which are taken to be types of the atoms or molecules of gross matter .
The effects of the normal and tangential components of the momentum communicated by each blow from a corpuscle will be treated separately .
S 1 .
The Normal Component of the Impacts .
Suppose that there are in space corpuscles per unit volume , moving indiscriminately in all directions with velocity .
let the mass of each corpuscle be , and the density of the medium , so that Suppose , further , that the are so small that collisions between them are rare enough to be negligible .
The system thus described is that of Lesage 's mechanism for explaining gravitation , provided that the corpuscles are not perfectly elastic .
' Plffi .
Trans , vol. 202 , pp. .
I have had the advantage of co1Tesponding with him on the present subject .
VOL. LXXVL\mdash ; A. 2 Prof G. H. Darwin .
Analogy between 's [ May 2 , As stated in the introductory remarks , when any corpuscle strikes a plane surface at such an angle that is the inclination of its motion before impact to the normal to the plane , it communicates to the plane normal momentum is a factor between 1 and 2 , being 1 for perfectly corpuscles , and 2 for perfectly elastic ones .
If two bodies , and , are exposed to the bombardment of corpuscles , the Lesagian attraction between them will vanish if the corpuscles are perfectly elastic , because the corpuscles reflected between and will on the whole cause such a repulsion between the bodies as exactly to counterbalance the attraction .
But in the present investigation we shall only consider those corpuscles which come infinity , and pay no attention to their behaviour after impact on the surfaces of4 and .
This can , I suppose , be only completely justified when the corpuscles are perfectly inelastic .
If the velocity of each of the corpuscles in unit volume be represented by a vector drawn from centre , the ends of the vectors will lie equally spaced on the surl.ace of a sphere of radius .
If from the centre of the sphere of velocities a cone of small solid angle be drawn , the nmnber of corpuscles per unit volume , whose directions of motion fall within the cone is Let us consider the pressure on a surface exposed to bombardment .
On the surface draw a unit area , which may clearly be treated as plane , and let be the zenith distance of the axis of the cone .
On the unit area draw an oblique prism , with edges of length , parallel to the axis of the cone ; the volume of this prism is .
Hence the number of corpuscles , whose directions of motion fall within cone , lying inside the oblique prism at any moment is .
At the end of unit time elapsing after the moment under consideration all these corpuscles will have struck the plane , and each will have communicated momentum towards the nadir equal to .
Thus the momentum towards the nadir communicated by this class of corpuscles is kmnv2 Since , the pressure ( or momentum towards the nadir communicated per unit time and area ) is where the summation is effected for all directions whence corpuscles may come .
If the particles may come from all over the sky , the summation is for half of angular space , .
Therefore the pressure on the surface is given by 1905 .
] Theory of and the Repulsion of Light .
If we put , this is the well-known result of the kinetic theory of gases .
If , however , a certain cone of space is screened off , so that no corpuscle can come from thence , the pressure is given by where the summation is taken over the screening s , rea .
Iu fig. llet the origin be at the unit area , and let be the intersection with the celestial sphere of the normal to the area ; let the screen be circular FIG. 1 .
round the axis , and let AA ' be one quadrant of the screen .
Let the radius of the screen be , and the zenith distance ( for an observer standing on the unit area ) of the centre of the screen be .
Then ZA Lt be the polar co-ordinates of an element of the screen at , so that the of the formula for the pressure is .
Also , since the of the fortlula is the angle , we have Hence , taking the summation over the area of the screen , .
Thus Prof G. H. Darwin .
between 's [ May 2 , Now let there bs two spheres exposed to bombardment , a sphere with radius , and a sphere with radius .
and let be the distance between their centres .
As stated in the introduction , and are zneant to typify atoms or molecul of gross matter .
Let an element at of the sphere be determined by colatitude from the axis BA , and by longitude measured from some fixed plane passing through BA , and let the element be expressed by This element is screened by the sphere , and therefore the screen is circular .
The semi-angle of the screening cone was denoted above by , and the observer 's zenith distance of the axis of the screening fjone was FIG. 2 .
If then we denote the distance PB from the element to the centre of the sphere by , we have from fig. 2 , Ra It is to be noted that has not the same meaning as that used in evaluating ( 1 ) .
If the angle QPA is obtuse , the whole of the sphere is visible to the observer at P. This case will be considered first , and afterwards those regions on the sphere from which is partially below the horizon of the observer .
We want to evaluate the total resultant force on the sphere , due to the pressure on all its elements , in the direction to .
As far as concerns the element mlder consideration , the resultant force iu the required direction is .
In order to determine the whole of that portion of the resultant which is due to pressure on the portions from which is completely visible , this expression will have to be integrated from to , and from to l\mdash ; t !
lat is to say , from the colatitude in which just begins to seb until is in the zenith .
The constant part of the expression for the pressure , namely , ) , is the 1905 .
] Theory of vitation the of Light .
same all round the sphere , and it cannot contribute anything to the resultant Iorce ; hence it may be omitted .
Since the expression for the pressure does not involve , the integration with respect to simply introduces the factor .
Thus the resultant force estimated towards , in as far as it is due to the elements from which is wholly visible , is where the limits of are and This expression may be integrated rigorously , but it would not be expedient to do so , because the result is very complicated , and because I have failed to obtain a rigorous the remaining portion of the complete expression , namely , where is only partially visible .
It will now save trouble if we omit the factor and reinCroduce it later , and if besides we choose as our unit of length .
Hence we have sin , , sin and the limits of are to Cos can be expanded convergently in powers of long as the two spheres do not actually touch , and we easily obtain : also .
Hence the integral becomes Now .
If , then , we write ' we have ) Prof G. H. Darwin .
)between 's Whence Integrating between the appropriate limits , we find It will be observed that the suffixes of the 's and of indicate their orders in the powers of This formula may be applied to each term of the preceding integrals , so that the result may be obtained in terms of and The several terms must then be expanded in powers of , and terms rearranged in their several orders .
After some tedious analysis I find , on reintroducing , which was treated as being the unit of length , the following result as far as the ninth order : ( l ) This formula gives the force on the sphere towards in so far as it is produced by the normal component of the bombardment on those parts of from which is completely visible .
It remains to investigate regions whence is only partially visible .
In fig. 3 , as in , let the origin be at a unit area on sphere , and let be the intersection of the normal to the area with the celestial sphere .
Then if PC is a right-angle , will be the ho1izon which bounds the screen .
Let be the axis of the screening cone , and DBE the cone itself .
As in the previous case , the of the cone is denoted by , and is The half of the screen which is shown in the is CBEZ .
If be any point in the screen , the pressure on the unit area on the sphere is 1905 .
] Theory of Gravitation and the Repulsion of Light , the summation being carried out over the whole screen .
As before , we ) neglect the constant part of the expression for the pressure .
In this figure more than half the sphere is visible , the case when less than half is visible will be treated subsequently .
If are the polar co-ordinates of PQ where the is taken over the area CBEZ and the other half not shown in the figure .
The area of integration may conveniently be divided into two parts\mdash ; viz. , the part inside the dotted circle and the part between CF and BE .
part of the result corresponding to the dotted circle may be obtained at once from our previous result ( 1 ) , for the radius of the cone is equal to S- , and therefore the result is For the remaining portion , take the limits of integration so as only to include CBEF ; then doubling the preceding formula , so as to permit us to halve the range of , we write the integral in the form If is any point on the boundary CB in colatitude , its longitude is equal to ; also CZ .
Then from the spherical triangle CZB we have Thus the limits of are to ; and the limits of are to Prof G. H. Darwin .
between Lesage 's [ May 2 , At the upper limit of we have and Integrating with respect , we obtain The last two terms involve the same and only differ in the coefficients ; they therefore fuse together with a coefficient The whole may now be written The last term is a perfect integral , and the first may be yrated by parts .
Effecting this , I find that the indefinite integral of the whole is Then taking the expression , between limits , and adding the part corresponding to the dotted circle , we have This expression admits of reduction , and it gives PQ Ssin 1905 .
] Theory of the Repulsion of Light .
The pressure is the same quantity multiplied by In the case when less than half of the sphere is visible , the circle vanishes .
It appears that at the upper limit at the lower ; the is the angle at the point , and therefore vanishes ; and at the same point equal to .
It is , then easily verified that the formula ( 3 ) holds good , and we may therefore apply it both when more and when less than half of is visible .
If is the sure as given by this formula , and is the element of area of the sphere , the component of pressure in the direction is .
This has to be integrated over the " " sunset\ldquo ; region of the sphere .
The integration with respect to is effected at once , and we are left with integrated from to , or from ) to , when is taken as the unit of length .
We have accordingly to multiply ( 3 ) by and yrate it from to .
I have not been able to effect ) integration orously , and shall the full details of the tedious analysis involved in the approximate integration .
It is convenient , in the first place , to change the independent variable .
Putting then , so that the limits become , we have sin so that If we drop the factor temporarily , it will be found that the subject of integration may be written in the form .
- multiplied by Prof G. H. Darwin .
between Lesage 's The first two lines of the first factor are even functions of , and the / ' three lines are odd functions ; the first term of the second factor is even , and the second term is odd .
Then since the limits of are , it follows that we need only multiply the first two lines of the first factor by ab and the last three lines by .
All the integrals involved are then known , viz. :\mdash ; By means of these I find that the component force on the sphere from towards due to this pressure is Now on comparing this with the expression for the first part of the force in ( 2 ) we see that it exactly annuls the terms of the sixth and eighth orders ; and we may feel confident that the term of the tenth order would be similarly annulled .
The result is of so simple a aracter that it must surely be possible to prove it in some shorter way .
However this may be , our result for the resultant force on towards , which I may call , is given by We may observe that , as a rough approximation , By symmetry the full expression for the for on towards is In considering the excess of above , it will suffice if we drop the terms of the seventh and ninth orders , since the reader will easily be able to extend the result if he desires to do so .
1905 .
] Theory of and the Repulsion of Light .
Then ] It follows , therefore , that , as the result of the normal component of the bombardment , the sphere is more strongly urged towards the smaller than the smaller towards the larger .
S 2 .
Tangential Component of the lmpacts ; EJfect of both Components to.qether : When a corpuscle strikes a plane surface so that is the inclination of its motion before impact to the normal to the plane , the tangential component of its momentum is my , and it communicates to the plane tangential momentum equal to , where lies between and 1 , being 1 for perfect roughness for perfect smoothness of the surface .
Following a procedure exactly similar to that adopted previously , we see that the corpuscles whose direction of motion before impact lie in a small cone of solid angle comrnunicate a tangential force to the plane equal to Let be the direction cosines of the normal bo the plane bombarded , and the direction cosines of the axis of the cone .
Then the direction cosines of the projection of the axis of the cone on the plane , which is identical with but opposite in direction to that of the tangential force communicated to the plane , are Hence if are the components of the force thus imparted to the plane by the bombardment , where the summatio1ls are carried out over all the directions from whence corpuscles arrive at the plane .
If corpuscles ) from all over the sky , ; hence the forces are , and two others , where the are carried out over the screening area .
Prof G. H. Darwin .
between Lesage 's [ May 2 , In fig. 1 the direction cosines of the normal to the bombarded surface are ; and ; The limits of integration are to to , and Therefore Integrating with respect to , we find In is at the bombarded element of surface , and is the igin of fig. 1 ; then we take PB as the axis of , and the dotted line PX as the axis of .
Accordingly the component force in the direction to is The element of surface at is , and it is to be noted that is used in a different sense from that employea in evaluating Hence the total force on the sphere from to , due to the component from the bombardment , for all those parts of from which is wholly visible , is the limits of being to , and of from to The integration for involves only multiplication by As before , I take temporarily as unit of ] , so that the limits of are to 1905 .
] Theory of the Repulsion of Light .
Then a .
Hence the integral becomes si If we use the same abbreviations as before in the development in inverse powers of , and note that we find Ihese formulae may be applied to each term of the integral , and the result is thus obtained in terms of and .
We next expand these in powers of , and rearrange the result in their several orders .
Finally on reintroducing I find the following result:\mdash ; ( 6 ) 400 Prof G. H. Darwin .
Analogy between 's [ May 2 , This gives the force on the sphere towards as arising from the tangential component of the impacts , in so far it is due to those parts of from which is completely visible .
It remains to consider the regions whence is only partially visible .
By in the same way as before I find , for the portion of the result which does not involve that part of the screen which is represented by the dotted circle in fig. 3 , after the integration with respect to The last terms in each of these expressions are integrable as they stand , and for the first terms of each In proceeding to the limits , it is to be noted that is when .
Thus after integration we shall have , for that portion which depends on the term involving , when Now , since the resultant force is iven by , this portion of the resultant is equal to , where has the meaning indicated in fig. 3 .
The force due to the portion of the screen represented by the dotted circle is given by the result ( 5 ) , namely , when is put equal to , which is equal to it is , therefore , equal to , and exactly annuls the term referred to above as resulting from the term in with .
Thus I find that the complete values for , inclusive of the dotted circle , are given by a 1905 .
] Theory of Gravitation and the Repulsion of Light .
These formulae may be shown to be equally true of the than half of is visible , and they are therefore applicable throughout .
The component force of towards is equal to , and becomes - In this formula is used in the sense indicated by fig. 3 .
This expression ] ] to be multiplied by , and rated from to , and from to .
The with respect to merely involves multiplication by .
For the integration with respect to , I change the variable to , and , as before , develop the expression and effect the various integrabions .
The final outcome of some tedious analysis is that the result is the same as the last three terms of ( 6 ) with the sign changed .
Hence , when we add this contribution to the force to ( 6 ) , those three terms simply disappear .
Thus the tangential component of the impacts give as a resultant , say , acting on the sphere towards ( 7 ) As a rough approximation we have If we form , or the force acting on the other sphere , it is clear that has a form similar to that found previously for , but it has the opposite sign .
Hence , as the result of the component of the bombardment , the sphere is less strongly urged towards the smaller one , than the smaller towards the On comparing with the result for in ( 4 ) , we see that they only differ in the of the terms after the first , and in the fact that replaces .
The result is of so simple a character that it is probable that it may be derived by some elementary considerations which escape me .
Thus , including both the tangential and normal components , we have .
( 8 ) 402 Prof G. H. Darwin .
between Lesage 's [ May 2 , In the case where the momentum of the impinging corpuscles is completely absorbed by the surface struck , we have , and the force is Thus , in this case the force varies rigorously as the inverse square of bhe distance .
No doubt this simple result may be proved much more shortly in the case of the complete absorption of the momentum of impacts .
* In any other case the result can only be regarded as approximate , because we have neglected reflected particles .
But in general it seems certain that the interaction between the two spheres will not be equal and opposite .
S 3 .
Repnlsion of When the Lesagian corpuscles deliver their whole momentum on impact , we have the exact converse of the case of radiation , for in the one case we consider all the particles which converge on to a given element of surface , and in the other case they all diyerge .
A corpuscular theory of light would give same result as the electro-magnetic theory as regards repulsion ; hence we see that two radiating and perfectly spheres at the same temperature repel one another rigorously as the inverse square of the distance .
The case of a perfectly reflecting sphere which receives radiation *Such a proof is given in a note to the following section .
[ June 23 , 1905 .
] Professor Larmor has given me a direct proof of the above result .
This I paraphrase in my own words as follows : \mdash ; A sphere radiating from its surface in the manner of a perfect radiator may be replaced by a uniform distribution of radiating spherules inside it , if we suppose the radiations from the several spherules not to interfere with one another .
This follows from the fact that the radiation issuing towards any zenith distance is proportional to the depth of the crowd of pherules beneath it in the given direction .
Now for a sphere that depth is a chord of the sphere , and is therefore proportional to the cosine of the zenith distance .
Hence the law of radiation of the crowd of spherules is the same as the natural law of radiation from the surface itself .
Suppose that one of the spherules emits corpuscles of mass with velocity per unit time , and let it be distant from the centre A of an absorbing sphere of radius With origin at the spberule measure colatitude from PA , and longitude from some fixed plane passing through PA .
The number of particles emitted per unit time through solid angle is .
Each of them carries momentum my , and therefore the component of momentum along PA abso1bed per unit time by the sphere is To find the whole thrust on the sphere we must integrate thus from to and from to 1905 .
] Theory of and the Repulsion of Light .
is analogous to the case treated in , where we consider only the effect the normal component of the impacts .
If two perfectly absorbing spheres have different temperatures , the action and reaction between them will not be equal and opposite .
The analogue of this case in the Lesagian hypothesis would be that the velocities of the particles which strike one of the spheres , should be different from those which strike the other .
If one side of a body of any shape be at a higher temperature than the other side , the body will be subject to a force tending to propel the cooler side forward , and to drag the warmer side after it .
This follows from the fact that the recoil of the emission on the warmer side is greater than that on the cooler side .
The result that a hot sphere will pursue a cold one is a special instance of this more general conclusion .
In the Lesagian hypothesis the pressure has a definite relationship to the amount of received per unit area and per unit time , and the law is the same as that which governs the relationship between radiation and the recoil of .
The result has so great a physical interest that it seems Hence the resultant repulsion exercised by the spherule on the sphere is Now suppose that there are spherules arranged uniformly in a sphere , of radius whose centre is distant from the centre of the sphere Since each spherule repels the sphere inversely as the square of the distance from its centre , it follows , as in the theor of attractions , that the aggregate of them repels inversely as the square of the distance between the centres of the spheres and Hence the total repulsion of the crowd of spherules must be equal to It 1emains to find the value of , in terms of the equivalent radiation from the surface of the sphere is the total nunlbel .
of } ) uscles emitted per unit time by the whole cloud , and this must be equal to the total number emitted from the surface of the sphere Now we have taken in the text ftbove to represent the number of corpuscles emitted from unit area of the surface of the sphere .
Hence we have It that the between the spheres is But it appears from the latter portion of S3 that Thus the repulsion is and is identical with the result obtained the end of above . .
LXXVI.\mdash ; A. ) Prof G. H. Darwin .
between Lesage 's [ May 2 , worth while to investigate this matter more closely .
We have already seen in 81 that the number of Lesagian corpuscles , which strike unit area in unit time is , and each corpuscle before impact carries energy .
Hence if the surface completely absorbs all the energy on impact , we can at once find , the total absorption of energy .
It is given by 2 .
Bnt is the mass of the Lesagian medium per unit volume , and has been denoted by , and therefore Complete absorption of energy corresponds to the case , and therefore the Lesagian pressure is Hence This result is the converse of the case of a corpuscular theory of radiation , and is then the radiation of the surface , whilst is tlJe pressure of radiation .
We shall now see how this same result may be obtained , when the subject considered from the point of view of radiation .
Suppose that be the number of corpuscles of mass emitted per unit time with velocity from unit area of a surface through an elementary cone in zenith distance .
The total number of corpuscles emitted per unit time is , because Each corpuscle carries energy , and the radiation is given by mnv2 .
But has not the same meaning that it had in S1 , and therefore we must consider what it is .
The number of particles radiated per unit area and time through the elementary cone towards zcnith distance is , and therefore for a small element of area it is We may concentrate the radiation from at its centre , and consider the distribution of corpuscles emitted .
Since the corpuscles have mass and move with velocity , the total mass of the particles at any moment in an element of volume distant from the centre of is 1905 .
] The , ory of and the Repulsion of Lighf .
Hence the density of corpuscles radiated from at a point distant from it , in zenith distance , is We may now find density at a point distant from an infinite Tadiating surface .
Take erin in the plane vertically under the point at which the is to be found , and let be the distance and azimuth of an element of radiating surface .
For such an element Then the density at the poinC under consideration is the SUU1 of the contributions of all elements of the plane , and if we denote that density by , we have Hence The same result will be true infinitely near a curved surface .
We found above in gian b that Hence it appears that .
This result might have been foreseen , because near the plane half the corpuscles are screened off , and so the density must be half that in free ce .
The normal recoil of the radiation is clearly equal to the normal !
component of the momentum radiated per unit time and area , and thel.efore Completing the integration and substituting for its value , we have The density of energy in space is clearly , and this is to - , p3 or 2 In the electro-magnetic theory of light the density of in is also , but I understand that the pressure is only half that comt ) the corpuscular theory and is equal to ; thus in that theory ) of in space is three times the pressure .
S4 .
Rcsistamce to th ifornb Velocit We may find the ce on such a sphere by imp( to the corpuscles a uniform drift in positio on their common velocities Let us first find pressure on a plane axea .
the to the area axis of suppose that ction cosines of the of an Prof .
H. Darwin .
between 's [ May 2 , infinitesimal cone are .
Then , if , are the components of the uniform drift of the corpuscles , the velocity of ths corpuscles whose direction of motion is parallel to the axis of the cone is The momentum towards the nadir communicated by this class of corpuscles per unit time is therefore We must then take , and integrate through half of angular space .
The integration with respeot to may be effected at once , expression becomes Now , suppose a sphere of radius to be moving with velocity in the direction of the axis of , and that is any element of its surface .
When we reduce the sphere to rest , we have the case just considered , and of the preceding investigation is equal to .
The portion of the pressure corresponding to the terms is the same all round the sphere , and will produce no effect ; it may , therefore , be omitted .
Then the component of the pressure on the element in the direction of the new axis of is vu This must be rated all over the sphere .
After integration with respect to , which merely involves multiplication by , we have If the whole momentum is absorbed , Next consider the tangential component of the momentum .
In the investigation of S2 , put .
Then the components of force are 1905 .
] Theory of Gravitation and the Repulsion of Light . . . . . .
These must be iutegrated through half of angular space .
Effecting the integration with respect to , we have From this we easily find In applying this to the case of the sphere , we have , as before , and if we take the meridian as the axis of the preceding ation , and .
Hence .
The component force on the sphere , parallel to the motion , is \mdash ; X Hence , the whole force on the sphere , due to the component , is For complete absorption of momentum .
Hence , in this case the normal and tangential components contribute an equal amount to the resistance , which becomes The uniform normal pressure , say , on the sphere when at rest is Hence , the resistance is I take it that a similar formula gives the resistance to a sphere , because the recoil corresponding to the emission of a particle is exactly equal to the momentum communicated by one S5 .
Summary .
Various hypotheses may be adopted as to the form and constitution of the elementary of matter and of Lesage 's ultramundane corpuscles .
In this paper I consider the elementary portion of matter to be a sphere , Prof. G. H. Darwin .
Analogy betn .
even Lesage 's [ May 2 , and I suppose the sphere to be either smooth or rough , and tlJe corpuscles to be either perfectly elastic or inelastic in their collisions .
With perfectly smooth spheres and perfectly elastic corpuscles , it is clear that the total energy of the system remains when two spheres , immersed in the medium , are made to approach or recede from one another .
no work is done by such movements , there can be no force on either sphere .
It would be excessively difficult to prove the vanishing of the force between the two spheres a detailed examination of the impacts of the corpuscles , because it would be necessary to take into account the corpuscles which are reflected from either sphere so as to strike the other .
It is , however , certain that in this case there would be no force , and therefore imperfect elasticity or roughness in the spheres are necessary conditions for the applicability of Lesage 's theory .
In the case of partial elasticity and roughness , it would be even more difficult than in the former case to trace the effect of reflected corpuscles which strike the other sphere .
But in proportion as the inela , sticity and roughness increase , so will a solution , which only takes into account first impacts , increase in accuracy .
We may fairly conjecture thab a very moderate degree of inelasticity would suffice to make such a solution fairly correct .
However this may be , no attempt is made in this paper to consider these repeated impacts .
A fundamental objection to the physical truth of Lesage 's hypothesis lies in the fact that it demands a continual creation of energy at infinity to supply the gravific machinery .
But Lord Kelvin has a manner in which this physical absurdity might be avoided .
* He supposes that the corpuscles are capable of absorbing in the form of internal oitation .
On each impact some of the energy of translation is converted into energy of itation , and a repartition of the of translation and agitation is effected by the mutual collisions of corpuscles according to Clausius 's law .
If , however , the work of this paper is correct , this suggestion will not serve to remove all the defects of 's hypothesis .
I here suppose two spheres to be subjected to , and evaluate the effecvs of the normal and tangential components of the several impacts separately .
It is thus possible to make varions hypotheses as to the rees of elasticity and roughness .
It appears that neither the normal nor the tangential components of the impacts rise to forces of attraction between the spheres which vary rigorously as the inverse square of the distance between their centres .
In fact the resultant force acting on one ' ' On { he Ultramundane Corpuscules of Lesage 'Phil .
Mag May , 1873 , vol. 45 , p. 321 , fourth 1905 .
] Theory of the Repulxion of Light .
of the spheres , due to the normal component , va1ies nately ) as the inverse square of a distance equal to the distance between the two centres diminished by of the radius of the sphere in question ; and the resultant force , due to the tangential component , similarly demands the augmentation of the distance the radius of the sphere .
If the two spheres are unequal in size , then , as far as concerns the normal component , the diminution of the distance , so as to maintain the law of square , is gleater for the larger sphere than for the smaller ; and the like is true for the augmentation in the case of the eHect of the tangential component .
It foliows that if the component is only effective , the lal.ger sphere is moxe impelled towards the smaller than the smaller to the larger , and the converse is true for the separate action of the tangential component .
In general , the sum of the two effects will not insure equality of action and reaction , nor the orous truth of the law of the inverse square .
If these be necessary conditions for the truth of any theory of gravitation , then Lesage 's hypothesis and Lord 's modification stand condemned .
It is true that the inequality of action and interaction may be avoided supposing that all elementary portions of matter are rigorously of the same size , but this still leaves the law of inverse square imperfectly fulfilled .
There is , however , one niting case in which these particular imperfections in the theory are avoided .
If the inelasticity of the corpuscles is complete and the hnes of the such as absolutely to annud the velocity of a corpuscle on impact\mdash ; in other words , if the absorption of momentum on impact is \mdash ; the law of inverse square becomes orous , and action and reaction become equal .
This supposition leaves the necessity for the creation of at ) in its acutest The case of the totad absorption of on } ) is strictly to the repulsion of light , for the emission of may be regarded as the exact converse of 's mechanisnl .
Thus the preceding investigation proves that two ting and completely spheres at same temperature repel one another rigorously as the inverse of the distance betweell their es .
If they are the same temperature they will ( to nlove ( indicated by ) so the cooler sphere leads .
This ) to be special case of a law , namely , that a body with end hot and the other cold will tend to lnove the cold end ) the 1ecoil of the emission of radiation from the hot end will be th that from the cold end .
Another effect of the recoil of the emission of crht may , perhaps , ) of * 410 's Theory of the Repulsion of Light .
importance in solar physics .
Pointing shows that the impulse of solar radiation at the earth is dine per square centimetre .
Now the earth is distant solar radii from the sun ; hence the recoil of light at the sun 's surface must be dynes per square centimetre .
An " " atmosphere\ldquo ; is about dynes per square centimetre , and although the pressure just computed is very small compared with a terrestrial standard atmosphere , yet its effect may be worthy of consideration .
In the last section the resistance is evaluated which an isolated sphere suffers when moving with uniform velocity in a Lesagian gravific medium .
It appears that the resistance is equal to the area of surface of the sphere multiplied by the pressure per unit area on a surface at rest , and by the ratio of the velocity of the sphere to the velocity of the gravific corpuscles .
I take it that the same result will give the resistance to motion of a radiating sphere .

