]\gt ; On the Electrical Resistance of Iron and Steel .
XI .
" " On the Changc produced etization in the Electrical Resistance of Iron and Steel.\mdash ; Preliminary Notice By Professor W. G. F.R.S. Received June 1 , 1875 .
For some time Mr. Herbert Tomlinsoll , in the Laboratory of King 's College , been out a series of experiments on this subject , on the of ' change of tension on the electrical of steel iron lres .
In measuring the resistances of the short lengths of the l.ods which vere employed , a umit lvas chosen hich as slUftll fraction of the British-Association ullit .
Experiments were made of soft ftb of au inch ] soft steel , and ith stecl different of hardness .
With a rod roll about 3 there of resistnnce of about 1 per cent. on cells .
The whole resist this rod The expel.iments }vere r in ice , in water at the empel .
) ith lloa ] lie same change the resi hc l.od .
] temperature of the -ater foumd to ) C. ( the meant .
Another rod of iron llCO t as The magnetizing of ' meter , and the resistnnce l by There found to be easc i hc hc it was converted into b sCll hc ' a wire which was coiled it in ornl 0 ) It was that the 1- dition made to the of the increase in the by strength the ulbel which did not much .
: o bers mostly lie .
of When the is the increase in the diminishcs rather pidly .
A serif ) } made of soft steel .
The the resistance the On the Electrical Resistance of Iron and Steel .
[ June 17 When the mngnetizing current is considerably increased , this ratio is found to diminish , just as in the case of soft iron .
Diflerent of steel were tried .
( 1 ) -needle , of which the resistance was units .
On nctizing with currents different strengths , there founi 10 be dininution in the resistance ; it was also found that the diminuof increased when the strength of the current was increased AVith currents varying to the diminution amounted to .
about per cent. of the hole resistance .
tempernture increased about C. during the experiment .
iding the loss of by the square of the , the of four sets of experiments gave the following alues : Four Grove 's ] vere employed for the gest current .
other experiments hich been tried prel i ) ] for the ratio of the diminution of resistanee to the currcnt , thus shov i the diminution in ] is most exnctly proportioJlftl to the ttre of he current .
The resistance does place ftll at once , but glTr , and tses ghell the currcnt is stopped .
( 2 ) needle 11 ns aJso magnetized itudi ] ] placing it on a coppel .
strip at right angles to the of force of a current the strip .
There found to be of resistance on increasing the rent .
The } alues o from series of periments were:\mdash ; Ctlrrcnts this foumd to by $1 in diof , a of resist nIlcc , 11 hich ifi ] ] the engt of the rrcnt t a sent the 11 ire , on sing the On the Action of Light on Selenium .
current there to be also a of in the of hard steel , and an of in the of soft itud soft steel .
Thus the effects produced the hose dne to transverse magnetization by a Conclusions to be the :\mdash ; ( 1 ) The effect of ally currell a btll of steel is to diminish its of soft iroll or soft steel is to increase its ( 2 ) When a of hard steel is a ent tough a coil which encloses , there is a of taJlCG ] ich is directly proportional to the squttrc of the up to ( 3 ) lVhen soft steel 01 ' sofr iroll is itnliIltlly or friLlsversely , there is an increase of lcsistance is neRrly proportionnl to the square of the .
XII .
The Action of on Sclcnium By Prof. .
G. M.A. , .
Rcccived Juuc 17 , ) .
The paper cont an { ccoullt of of mftde in December and January last on this ilh the :\mdash ; ( 1 ) To determine whethel .
the ange in the of the selemium is due to radiant heat , light , or ( 2 ) Do measure the of the hnIlgc of fo lposure to light from different sources ongh ious { ( 3 ) To determine hethcr tho { icfio ] ] is or if possible , to measure the rntc at which The seIenium formed one of four bridge , and its avcl.agc The resistances in the ere ) and '2000 , so that the resist of ho ) able resistance required to lallco i is taken to represcnt The box 1A lid , 11 was kept closed ] ) ) the drav--lid was a ] ) ) .
by centims. , ) media could be placed .
The absorbing copper , ruby , mica , and quartz With the lid of tho on , } and to iu

