]\gt ; Mr. W. H. L. Russell .
[ June 21 , XIII .
" " Theorems in Analytical Geometry By W. H. L. RUSSELL , .
Received June 21 , 1888 .
To determine the envelope of the first polar of any curve , when pole moves on a given curve of the third order .
Let be equation to the surface ; then if ' is the equation to first polar , when moves on a given cubic , Then differentiatiug Then as usual Then eliminating by the equation to the first polar , we have\mdash ; where are functions of , whose forms are immediately seen , and the arbitrary multiplier is omitted because ib will dissppear in the final result : then we find at once the values of and so , and therefore of , which we may substitute in the equation to the polar , and so obtain the envelope .
But we may find a more symmetrical restllt thus : eliminating as before by means of equation to the polar\mdash ; ; and moreover 1888 .
] in Analytical the equation to the envelope is\mdash ; When the curve is of third order the polar become a curve of tho ccond o , which is alled the conic .
Let us the pole must move 011 for tho polar to up lines .
Let\mdash ; or the equation to the nd this tion m up into ctors bo a squal.e ; or mubb be a square ; or the equf)tion to the Hessian .
the equation to the igbt lines is of the 390 Mr. W. H. L. Russell .
and tefore [ June 21 , must pass through the point of their intersection .
So also must The pole and the intersection of these two straight lines are called by Dr. Salmon corresponding points .
When I had proceeded thus far , and had to make deductions from these equations , I became acquainted with the existence of a memoir by Professor Cayley on this subject in the 'Phil .
Trans. ' for 1857 .
He has there given these qnations without proof .
I have therefore demonsbrated them exactly the way in which I hem before I was acquainted with his paper , to which refer for ulterior theorems .
To determine bhe double tangents of a quartic .
Let mx be the equation to a straight line cutting the quartic .
If this value of be substituted in the quartic , the equation will become so if be the roots of this equation , we have the following equations:\mdash ; S. Then for the bitangents , and therefore S. 1888 .
] Theorems in Anal.ytical By meaus of the two equations\mdash ; since unctionls of 4 and , we determine the double We also use the ) to determine the two tanrcntials of ally s of quartic in the point where ] tangent mcets the .
In case we assumc as known , and we have\mdash ; from which tho -ordinates of the ngcntials m be determined the lntion of eqnatiou .
We next procoed to the ations which bifangents of the quintic .
We subslitute in the cquation , and oblain using same .
Put the equations become\mdash ; .
Hence ' Hence the remaining cquations become\mdash ; 392 Capt. W. de W. Abney and Dr. T. E. Thorpe .
[ June 21 , .
We have to eliminate between these three equations ; the resultant between equations of the third and fourth order is given by SaImon ; also the resultant between two quartics , from which we may deduce the resuItant of a quartic and a quintic .
The result will be tremendously complicated ; but we must remember the number of double tangenbs to a non-singular quintic is 120 , which naturally ests an equation of the 120th degree , which I ) few hematicians would like to solve .
It is impossible , however , to the of analysis .
I have omitted to take any notice in this paper of the modifications which would be occasioned by double points , , if permitted , to return to the subject .
I vould observe in conclusion that the same method applies to the determination of points of inflexion .
Thus in the quartic , for the roots of the equation produced by eliminating between the quartic and a straight line , and putting , we find it easy to eliminate and and to find two equations which will give the inflexional tangents .
XIV .
" " On the Determination of the Photometric Intensity of the Coronal Light during the Solar Eclipse of August 28-29 , 1886 .
Preliminary Notice By Captain W. DE W. ABNEY , C.B. , R.E. , F.R.S. , and T. E. THORPE , , F.B.S. Received June 21 , 1888 .
Attempts to measure the brightness of the corona were made by Pickering in 1870 , and by Langley and Smith , independently , in 1878 , with the result of showing that the amount of emitted light as : observed at various eclipses , may vary within comparatively wide limits .
These observations have been discussed by Harkness ( ' Washingbon Observations for 1876 , ' Appendix III ) , and they will be again disctlssed in the present paper .
the observations it appears that the total ] ight of the corona in 1878 was of that of a standard candle at 1 foot distance , or times that of the full moon , that of the sun .
It further appears from the photographs that the coronal light varied inversely as the of

