III .
An Account of an Experiment touching the Freezing of Common Water , Ting 'd with a Liquid said to be Extracted from Shell-Lac .
By Mr. Francis Hauksbee .
F. R. S. THIS Liquid is a very deep Red ; a small quantity of which , will Tinge twenty times as much of Common Water of a very good Sanguine Colour hardly Transparent .
I found this Liquor , Extracted from Lac , would not Freeze ; for during the Coldest Weather we have lately had , it retained its Fluidity ; and when it was mixed with Water , and exposed to Freeze , the Water , in which it was mixed , soon suffered a Congelation ; and so much of it as underwent the Change , appeared of a fine but pale Transparent Red ; the Body of the Colour retiring into the Middle , in form of the Figure a a , in the Margin , and was wholly Opake .
And when no more of the mixed Liquid would be Frozen , I took the Body of Ice out of the Glass that contained it , a it , by just warming the sides of it by a Fire .
I found then by pricking a piece of Wire into the dark part of it , the Red Liquor immediately succeeded thro ' the Hole I had made , seemingly as pure and as abstracted from any Mixture of Water , as it was before it was put into it .
This Red Liquor I found to be something specifically heavier than Common Water ; which makes me wonder , why the Figure it made on its retiring , was not rather the reverse to what it appeared : For I should think it reasonable to expect , that the upper part , which was the broadest , should , by its own weight , alter or reverse the Position of the Figure .
Another thing very remarkable , was , that this retired Liquid , as it seemed to keep an equal distance from the sides of the Glass , so did it from the bottom and top of it ; which upon repeated Trials answered the same .
I likewise mixed some Common Water with a strong Purple Liquor , made from Logwood , boiled in Water , in which some Allom had been dissolved .
A little of this would give a strong Tincture to a pretty Quantity of fair Water ; and when exposed to Freeze , would retire towards the Middle , leaving the first Frozen Water of a very pale Purple , in comparison to the middle part ; which when I had taken out of the Glass that contained it , and broke it , I found it was Frozen through , but of so dark a Colour in the middle , that it came near a Black .

