180 Mr. W. Gardiner .
[ Dec. 20 ; III .
On the Changes in the Gland-Cells of muscipula during Secretion .
" By Walter Gardiner , B.A. , Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton-Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received December 18,1 1883 .
The following observations were made upon leaves of mus~ cipulawhich had been fed with the bodies of wood-lice , from which the chitinous coat had been previously removed .
, The leaves were then placed in absolute alcohol .
It is well known that shortly after the application of animal matter the leaves close , and may remain shut for a period varying usually from ten to twelve days , when they open spontaneously .
When , however , the leaf is not vigorous or when the amount of animal matter is somewhat large , the leaf may not open at all , but remain closed .until its death .
There appear to be four periods which attend the phenomenon of digestion in such a leaf , viz. , the resting , the secretory , and the absorptive periods , and the period of recovery .
These periods are fairly well defined in Bioncea on account of the slowness with which they proceed .
In the resting state the gland cells ( fig. 1 ) exhibit the following structure:\#151 ; In each cell , the protoplasm closely surrounds the cell-wall , leaving one large central vacuole , which is filled with the usual pink cell-sap .
The protoplasm is extremely granular , especially around the nucleus , which is , in consequence , almost entirely obscured from view .
The nucleus is situated at the base of the cell , and is shown by reagents to be large and well-defined .
Pio .
1 .
At the end of the secreting period , which appears to be about twenty-four hours after stimulation , the following changes have occurred ( fig. 2 ) .
Movements of the protoplasm have taken place , in consequence of which the nucleus now occupies the centre of the cell ; numerous strands of protoplasm radiate from the nucleus to the parietal protoplasm of the cell , in consequence of which several 883 .
] Changes in the Gland-Cells of Dionsea muscipula .
181 acuoles , instead of one large one , are present .
The protoplasm now xhibits but little granularity , and may be described as clear and hyaline .
The nucleus is clearly brought into view , and appears to tave undergone a very considerable diminution in size .
Fig. 2 .
Passing to the phenomena of the ordinary leaf tissue , it may be remarked that definite special cell-contents make their appearance after the absorption of the digested food .
Sections of leaves which were placed in alcohol thirty-six hours after feeding , show that the cells contain a very large number of tufts of crystals , which are present in the cell-vacuole and adhere to the inner surface of the cell-protoplasm .
The tufts are formed of fine acicular crystals which crystallise out with great regularity and radiate from a central point .
The tufts are of a yellow-green colour .
They are insoluble in alcohol , in 1 per cent , acetic acid , and in 1 per cent , hydrochloric acid ; and soluble with difficulty in 5 per cent , solution of potash .
The formation of these crystals may be artificially produced by wetting the surface of a fresh leaf with the fluid from a leaf which has fed for a period of from thirty-six to forty-eight hours .
After forty-eight hours the cell-contents are of a different nature .
The cells now contain numerous bodies which present the appearance of flat sphsero-crystals .
They are usually perfectly circular in outline , and are clear and colourless .
They are insoluble in alcohol but extremely soluble in water . .
In Drosera the changes take place much more rapidly , the phenomenon of digestion usually extending over a period of from three to five days .
The gland-cells in the resting state were seen to be much more granular before , than after secretion .
In consequence of absorption the cells contain a large quantity of a substance which is precipitated in dense granules by alcohol , but is readily soluble in water .
The author has not yet worked out Drosera in detail .

