Some Account of the Transit Instrument made by Mr. Dollond , and lately put up at the Cambridge Observatory .
Communicated April 13 , 1825 .
By Robert Woodhouse , A.M. F.R.S. Read May 19 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 418 .
] The author in this paper first describes the operations by which the new transit instrument at the Observatory of Cambridge was approximatively placed , so as to allow of a meridian mark being erected on the distant steeple of Granchester church .
He then enters into a more full consideration of the different methods proposed and employed by astronomers for executing the more delicate adjustments of the transit in general ; he shows how the errors of collimation , level , azimuth , and the clock , may all be detected , and their values determined , by the resolution of certain equations of the first degree , constructed from observations of any three or more stars ; but this method , though exact in theory , he reprobates in practice , and prefers making each adjustment separately and by the ordinary mechanical trials , as shorter , more effectual , and less troublesome .
Mr. Woodhouse then describes a remarkable phenomenon presented to him by the transit in the course of his observations .
He found that the line of collimation of the instrument deviated occasionally to the east or west of the centre of the meridian mark , without any apparent reason .
At length , however , it was found that this was caused by the approach of the assistant 's body to the lateral braces , placed for the purpose of steadying the instrument in an invariable position at right angles to its axis .
The expansion of the brace nearest to him was found to thrust the axis of the telescope aside ; and on the removal of the assistant , the equilibrium of temperature restoring itself , the deviation gradually disappeared .
That this was the true cause , appeared by wrapping hot cloths round the alternate braces , by which the same effect was produced in an increased degree .
Warned by these observations , Mr. Woodhouse ordered a proper apparatus to be provided , to defend the braces from the sun 's rays , during the meridian passage of that luminary .

