]\gt ; The law that determines the distance to which speaking by tele , phone on land lines is possible , is just the same as that which de .
termines the number of currents which can be transmitted through a submarine cable in , second .
The experimental evidence which this law is based was carried out in 1853 by Mr. Latimer Clark ( whose assistant I then was ) .
The experiments were made me in the presence of Faraday ; many were his own ; he made the1g the subject of a Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution January 20 , 1854 , and they are published in his ' Researches ' ( vol. p. 508 ) .
They received full mathematical development by Sir Willian Thomson in 1855 ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc May 24 ) , who determined the law , the accuracy of which was proved by Fleeming Jenkin and by Cromwell Varley , and the 110,000 miles of cable that now the bottom of the ocean afford a constant proof in their daily working .
Hockin reduced Thomson 's law to the following series:\mdash ; which allows it to be expressed by the following curve ) Now is a time-constant dependent on tlJe conditions of the circuit , invariable the same uniform circuit but differing for different circuits .
It represents the time that elapses from the instant contact is made at the sending end to the instant that the current begins to appear at the receiving end .
It is given by the following equa , .
tion:\mdash ; Bkrl2 , being a constant dependent principally on the units used ; the Limiting Distance of Speeeh by Telephone .
153 inductive capacity per unit length ( mile or knot ) ; the resistance per nnit length , and the length in miles or knots .
, therefore , limits the number of vibrations per second that can be sent through any circuit .
If be second , as it was 1n the French Atlantic cable of knots long , then it is impossible to send currents per second through that cable ; but it would be possible to send 5 or complete reversals per second .
Moreover , as the number of reversals varies inversely with the square of the length , it shows that such a cable if of 100 miles length would allow 1562 reversals to pass through it .
It is necessary to remark that these expressions involve no mention of E.M.F. , or of current , and therefore the number of reversals which can be produced at the of a wire is quite independent of the impressed E.M.F. , and therefore of the strength of the current .
Bu the number of reversals is dependent upon the sensitiveness of the apparatus used to receive the currents , for if we nse an instrument which will respond to a current indicated by the fuIl line , we get two currents per second ; and if we use an instrument which will respond only to the dotted line , we get only one current in two ssconds , which is about the current used with delicate relays in this country .
This is why such discordant results are obtained by different observers who attempt to measure the velocity of currents of electricity .
It is also why the telephone is such an admirable instrument for research\mdash ; for it is sensitive to the least increment or decrement of cut.rent .
Before proceeding with this inquiry it was necessary to determine very accurately the inductive capacity of overhead and undergronnd wires .
This was done with great care on very dry days in different parts of the country by means of a Thomson mirror galvanometer and a standard condenser .
The results come out as follows:\mdash ; iron wcovered wiron psGutta pcovered w No. copper lvire The capacity can be calculated from the following formula ( also due to Sir William Thomson ) * Fleeming Jenkin , ' Electricity and Magnetism , ' p. 331 .
Limiting Distance of Speech by Telephone .
J@87 .
] Limiting Distance of Speech by Telephone .
157 If we put equation 1 ) into this form , , . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) give to A the following values:\mdash ; Copper ( overhead ) . . . . . . . . . . . .
15,000 Cables and underground . . . . . . . .
12,000 Iron overhead ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10,000 can find the limiting distance we can speak with any wire ; for '/ Take copper , whose constant is 15,000 , and a wire whose resistance is per mile , and capacity per mile , then\mdash ; which is the limit of speaking upon such a wire .
The wire used between Paris and Brussels has a resistance of ohms and a capacity of about microfarad per kilometre , and as.that distance is only about 200 the speaking must be excellent .
Moreovel , thers is rsason to believe , from the difference between observation and calculation , that the static capacity on Continental and American lines is less than that of English lines , owing to the nse of earth wires on all poles in England , and therefore the distance old be greater .
Take an Atlantic cable\mdash ; Now I had found in that it was just possible to speak through 100 miles of such a cable\mdash ; a very close agreement .
Moreover , by the law of the squares , 100 miles of an Atlantic cable ought to transmit 1562 reversals , if 2584 miles transmit , and this is probably the average number of sonorous vibrations imparted by the human voice , when hearing by telephone begins to get difficuIt by the loss of the higher partials and overtones .
There is another interesting consequence of Thomson 's law which comes out of these experiments , and that is , whether the line be a single wire completed by the earth , or a double wire making a tnetallic circuit , the rate of speed between the two ends is exactly the * ' Phil. Mag April , 1878 .
The limit of working of different insulated wires is easily obtained by equation ( 2 ) , and the following table gives that information for different gutta-percha-covered wires .
N.B.\mdash ; The top number indicates the gauge of wire , and the lower number that of the gutta-percha .
IV .
" " The Etiology of Scarlet Fever By E. KLEIN , M.D. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on General Anatomy and Physiology at the Medical School of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , London .
Received February 23 , 1887 .
The investigation , the resuIts of which I now record , was commenced at the end of December , 1885 .
It arose out of an inquiry into the prevalence of scarlatina in different quarters of London , under-

