42 Mr. G. M. Whipple .
On the Examination of [ Feb. 15 , II .
" Description of an Apparatus employed at the Kew Observatory , Richmond , for the Examination of the Dark Glasses and Mirrors of Sextants .
" By G. M. Whipple , B.Sc. , Superintendent .
Communicated by Warren De La Rue , ' Esq. , Vice-Chairman of the Kew Committee .
Received February 6 , 1883 .
In the Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 16 , p , 2 , Professor Balfour Stewart described an apparatus designed and constructed by Mr. T. Cooke for the determination of the errors of graduation of sextants .
This instrument has from that date been constantly in use at the Kew Observatory , and since the introduction of certain unimportant improvements , has been found to work very well .
No provision was made , however , for its employment in the determination of the errors of the dark shades used to screen the observer 's .eyes when the sextant is directed to the sun or moon , and it has been found that errors may exist in the shape of want of parallelism in these glasses , sufficiently large to seriously affect an observation , accurate in other respects .
It has also been found that sextant makers are desirous of having the shades examined before proceeding to fit them into their metal mountings , and also to have the surfaces of the mirrors tested for distortion before making the instruments up .
With a view to the accomplishment of these ends , for some time past the Kew Committee have undertaken to examine both dark glasses and mirrors , and to mark them with a hall-mark , when they are found to answer the requirements necessary for exactitude .
For these purposes the apparatus now described has been devised by the author , and brought into use at the Observatory .
It is represented in the annexed cut .
A telescope , A , of inches aperture and 48 inches focal length , a pair of collimators , B and C , of 1^ inch aperture and 10 inches focal length , and a heliostat , D , are firmly fixed to a stout plank , so 1883 .
] the Dark Glasses and Mirrors of Sextants .
43 that their axes may be in the same horizontal plane .
The eye-piece of the telescope , E , carries a parallel wire micrometer , F. G is the dark glass to be examined , and H is another glass of the same tint .
In order to adjust the instrument , the telescope , A , is directed to the sun , a shade being fitted to the eye-piece , and then placed in its Y 's focussed for parallel rays .
The collimators , B and C , are then fixed on their table with their object-glasses opposed to that of the telescope , A , the eye-pieces and wires having first been removed , and a metal plate with a sharply cut hole in its centre , fitted to their diaphragms .
Light is next reflected down the collimator by the mirror D , and the aperture in the diaphragm , being viewed through the telescope A , is carefully focussed by moviug the object-glass of the collimator to and fro , by means of its rack and pinion .
The diaphragm aperture is next collimated by rotating the collimator in its bearings .
Both collimators being thus adjusted they are placed side by side , so that their illuminated sights can be viewed simultaneously in the telescope , appearing as superimposed bright disks 12 ' in diameter .
They are next separated so that the disks remain merely in contact at the extremity of their horizontal diameters .
The instrument is now ready for use , and the examination of the shades is performed in the following manner .
The glass to be tested is fixed in a holder , in front of the object-glass of collimator B , a corresponding shade being placed between the heliostat and diaphragm of collimator C. The sun is directed on to the diaphragms .
The coloured disks are viewed through the telescope , when if the sides of the shade G are perfectly parallel the relative position of the disks is unchanged , if , how-over , the shade is not ground true , the disks will appear either separated or to overlap .
In the first case , the amount of separation is measured by the micrometer , F , and serves to indicate the quality of the glass .
In the case of overlapping images the shade is rotated through 180 ' , and separation produced which can be measured .
A second examination is then made , the shade having been turned through 90 ' .
If in no position a separation of images is found to exist to - the .exteni^of 20 " , the glass is etched K.O. 1 ; if more than 20 " but less than 40 " , the mark is K.O. 2 , with greater distortion than this , the shade is rejected and not marked .
To examine the .
quality of the mirrors , a small table , on levelling screws , is put in front of the object-glass of the telescope .
The mirror to be tested is placed on its edge on this table , and turned until a distant well-defined object is reflected down the tube of the telescope .
The object-glass of the telescope having previously been 44 [ Prof. J. Dewar and A. Scott .
[ Feb. 15 , stopped down to an aperture corresponding to the size of the mirror , the reflected image is contrasted with that seen directly , and if the definition is unchanged , the mirror is marked K.O. , with a writing diamond , and returned to the maker ; if the object appears distorted , its unfitness for use is similarly notified .
A small fee is charged for the examination .
III .
\#171 ; On the Atomic Weight of Manganese .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , Cambridge , and Alexander Scott , M.A. Received February 9 , 1883 .
Our attention has been directed for some time to a new determination of the atomic weight of manganese .
This communication gives a succinct account of the results of the preliminary stages of such an inquiry , and although the further progress of the investigation may reveal some errors , still we feel convinced the final numbers can in no way differ materially from the present values , and therefore further delay in publication is unnecessary .
The atomic weight of manganese has been determined by many chemists , * but the resulting values vary considerably according to the special method selected .
The results .of the different investigators may be divided into two classes\#151 ; those giving approximately 55 as the number , and those making it about 54 .
To the former class belong Turner , Berzelius , and Dumas , all of whom use the same method , viz. , the determination of the silver chloride yielded by a weighed amount of chloride of manganese .
Turner also made determinations from the analysis of the carbonate , and from the conversion of the monoxide into sulphate .
Yon Hauer used the same method as that employed by him in the determination of the atomic weight of cadmium , viz. , the reduction of manganous sulphate to sulphide by ignition in a current of sulphuretted hydrogen .
It is probable that this method is not very trustworthy , as , according to Schneider , the sulphide may be contaminated by oxysulphide .
Schneider and Rawack belong to the second class of observers , the former employing the oxalate , and from its analysis calculating the atomic weight by deducting the weight of water and carbon dioxide obtained .
Rawack , whose experiments were conducted in Schneider 's laboratory , weighed the water obtained by reducing manganoso-manganic oxide to manganous oxide .
One objection to the analysis of the chloride is that it may contain besides manganous chloride varying proportions of manganic salt .
# Berzelius , " Lehrbuch , " 5 Ed. , 3 , 1224 .
Dumas , " Ann. Chem. Pharm. , " 113 , 25 , 1860 .
Hauer , " Wien .
Acad. , " xxv , 124 .
Rawack and Schneider , " Pogg Ann. , " 107 , 603 .

