]\gt ; VIII .
the of the rtitio ns of .\mdash ; Part II .
By P. A. MAcMAHON , , D. Received Novcmbel 21 , \mdash ; Read November 24 , 1898 .
Art .
64 .
The subject of the partition of numbers , its proper development , requires treatment in a new and more comprehensive manner .
The subject-matter of the theory needs enlargement .
This will be found to be a necessary consequence of the new method of regarding a that is here brought into an integer be brokell up into any number of , . .
; if we ascribe the conditions the succession is what is known partition of There are conditions .
to which we may add if the integers be all of chem ) ositive ( or zero ) .
the present restricted to be positive or by hypothesis , so that this will not be further attended to .
If , on the other hand , the conditions be no order of magnitude is supposed to exist between the successive and we obtain what has been termed a " " composition\ldquo ; of the integer Various other systems of partitions into parts be brought under view , because between two consecutive parts we may place eitllel .
of the seven symbols 5.5.99 We thus obtain different sets of conditions that may be assigned ; these are not all essentially rent and in many cases they overlap .
Art .
65 .
For the moment I concentrate attention upon the symbol remark that the conditions , which involve this symbol , set forth above , con stitute one set of large class of sets which volve the symbol .
We may have single condition yhcrein A , A are integers , zero or - , of which at one must be positive , 01 we may have the set of conditions as the definitionl of the partitions considered .
If the symbol be instead of the solution of the equations falls into the province of linear Diophantine analysis .
problem us may be regarded as one of linear partition analysis .
is much in common between the two theories ; the problems may be treated by somewhat similar methods .
The partition analysis of degree higher than the first , like the Diophantine , is of a recoll-dite is left for the present out of consideration .
I treat the partition conditions by the method of generating functions .
I seek the bummation for cvery set of values ( integers ) , . .
which tisfy the assigned collditions .
It appears that there are , in case , a finite number of ground or fundamental solutions of conditions , vi :\mdash ; MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUMBERS .
such that every solution , . .
is such that . . . . . .
, . .
being positive integers .
This arises from the fact that every term of the summation is found to be expressible as a product Denoting this product by the generating function assumes the form wherein the denominator indicates the ground solutions and the numerator the simple and compound syzygies which unite them .
The terms .
denote first syzygies . .
, , second , , .
, , third . .
The reader will note the striking analogy with the generating functions of the theory of invariants .
VOL. CXCII .
\mdash ; A. tAJOR P. A. IIACMAHON ON THE OF IONS OF NUMBERS .
SimiIar results are obtained as solutions oflinear Diophantine equatiolB .
The erating functions under view are real in sense of CAYLEY and .
Lnumerating generating functions of various kinds are obtained by equalities veen the suffixed capitals , . .
uttin , e.g. , obtain the function which enumerates by the coefficient of , in the ascending expansion , the numbers of solutions for which .
It will be gathered that the note of the following investigation is the importation of the idea that solution of system of equations of the form ( all the quantities involved being integers ) is a problem of partition analysis , and that the theory proceeds pari with that of the linear Diophantine analysis .
cctio Art .
66 .
I propose to lead up to the general theory of partition analysis by considering certain simple particular cases in full detail .
Suppose we have a function which can be expanded in ascending powers of .
Such expansion being either finite or infinite , the coefficients of the various powers of are functions of which in genel.al involve both positive and negative powers of .
We may reject terms tive powers of and subsequently put equal to unity .
We thus at a function of only , which may be represented after CAYLEY ( modified by the association with the symbol ) by , the symbol denoting that the terms retained are those in which the power of is Sirnilarly we may indicate by the operation NiAJOR P. A. IIACMAHON ON THEORy OF PARTITIONS ] that the only terms retained are those in which occurs to the power zero the meaning of the tions will be understood without further nation .
To generalise the notion we may consider to mean that the function is to be expanded in ascending powers of , . .
X , , the terms involving ativeo powers of are to be rejected , and that subsequently we are to put .
In this case the has reference to each of the letters and a term involving any negative power of either of these quantities is rejected .
If the quantities .
, .
be not all subjected to the same operation we may denote the whole operation by wherein operates upon , according to the law of the symbol The operation , a single quantity and the symbol been studied by CAYLEY .
* more than one quantity it has presented itself in a memoir on partitions by the present author .
These functions are of moment in all questions of partition and linear Diophantine analysis .
Art .
67 .
I will construct functions to serve as generators of well-known solutions and enumerations in the theory of unipartite partition .
Problem 1 .
To determine the number of partitions of into or fewer parts .
Graphically considered we } ) rows of nodes : . . . . . . .
* On an Algebraical Operation ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 9 , p. 537 .
" " Memoir on the Theory of the Partitions of Numbcrs Part I. , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 187 .
pp. , 1896 .
, . .
denoting the numbers of nodes in the first , second , \amp ; c. , rows , To find for all sets of integers satisfying the conditions take where observe that the factors generate the successive rows ' of nodes and that the method of placing the letters , . . .
ensures the satisfaction of the first , second , \amp ; c. , conditions .
Continued application of the simple theorem applied in respect of the quantities . .
in succession , reduces the function to the form the generating function .
The ground solutions or fundamental partitions are , as shown by the denominator factors , and , have been anticipated , the graphi-al representation is in evidence .
MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUMB RS .
357 Art .
68 .
By choosing to sum the expression every solution of the given conditions has been generated .
The same result been achieved by other summations such as . .
, . .
being given positive integers , or as We , in fact , may take as indices of , . .
any given linear functions of , .
, and form the corresponding generating function .
For the two cases specified , the functions are and the reduced functions ' respectively .
Generally for the sum .
the functions are . .
and ; Art .
69 .
In any of these instances we have quantities at disposal , viz. : , . . .
order to deri enumerating generating functions corresponding to certain problems .
In the last-written general case , the quantities , . .
being given integers , put as a particular case , . .
reduced function is and herein the coefficients of , in the expansion , give the number of partitions , . .
of all numbers which satisfy the equation , . .
being in descending order .
For the three particular cases considered above this equation takes the forms ed with the reduced generators , respectively .
Further , we may separate , . . .
in any manner into sets and put those which are in the first set equal to , those in the second equal to and so on , and so reach an enumerating function volving k quantities , , . . . .
Put suppose even .
We obtain MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON TH rHEORY OIONS O NUMBERS .
350 to enumerate by the coefficient of those partitions of for which . .
This enumerating function , since it involves and , is one connected also with the partitions of bipartite numbers .
In general when sets , are taken , we have a theorem of -partite partitions .
When , we have at once a function for unipartites and an enumer.ating function for -partites , for , from the latter point of view , the number unity which appears as the coefFicient of shows that the tite number can be in one way only into the there being figures in each part .
Art .
70 .
We may now into the partitions of all numbers , . .
subject to the given conditional relations and also to the linear ions To illustrate the method , it suffices to take , and then we have to perform the summation " " .
The function reduced is erei putting .
we obtain the enumerating function in which we seek the coefficient of Art .
71 . .
Consider the particular case . . . .
, as usual , subject to the conditional relations .
The enumerating function is ' and it is obvious also that the partitions of the bipartite which satisfy the conditions may be composed by the biparts , . . .
The corresponding representation is not by superposition of ] ines of nodes , but by angles of nodes , of the natures Art .
72 .
It is convenient , at this place , to give some elementary concerning the function which will be useful in what follows .
MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF I .
' 1 \mdash ; .
1 \mdash ; .
\mdash ; ' .
\ldquo ; / / I \ldquo ; ' , ' .
1\mdash ; . . .
IArt .
78 .
I pass on to consider parlitiuns .
numbers into ) ; limited not exceed in lmagnitude .
function is In this form I have not succccded in the reduction , but if we ) once . . .
the reduced forol is V0L .
CXCII .
3 tJOR P. A. IACMAHON ON THE THEORy OF PARTITIONS OF NUMBERS .
If the ) be nited to in number and to in magnitude , we fiud the well-known result .
Art .
74 .
It is to be rked t the generating function in question may also be vrilte in which to seek the coefficient of .
This function reduces to I ' the In ge ting function reduces to product of factors the obtain a product of factors for the iclc ) this equently exhibitable , ards the coefficien of fuucbion is not alte ] by the interchange of the letters Art .
75 .
lf the successive parts of the partition limited in magnitude by . .
in descending ordel , the generating function is . .
MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUlfBERS .
363 For , this be shown to be equal to but for , the fullctions are obtained with increasing labour , of in reasing complexity .
Many cases present themselves , similar to the one before us , where th function is written down with facility , but no serviceable reduced function appears to exist .
On the other hand , we meet with instances of compact reduced functions which involve valuable theorems .
Art .
76 .
From the reduced function we can frequently proceed to an function , thus inverting the usual process .
If , for example , we require an equivalent to a little consideration leads to This indicates that a unipartite partition into the parts . . .
may be represented by a two-dimensional partition of another kind which involves the , . . .
, the numbers in ascending order , the line partition can be thrown into the plane partition of the nature of a ised graph in the elements these quantities are not necessarily in any specified order of magnitude .
We obtain , in fact , a mixed numerical and graphical representation of a partition of a new kind .
If , .3 the partition 43331 has the mixed graph well as , ordinary unit-graph .
In one case the mixed graph is composed entirely of nits , and is , moreover , the rapb con.iugate to the unit graph .
This happens when Thus , these elements , has the mixed ( here the conjugate ) graph Art .
77 .
that a partition may be such the parts which actually appear it , or it may be , in addition , certain parts which appear , but which happen to be absent .
A mixed corresponds to each such supposition . .
gr. :\mdash ; Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
Partition .
elements .
4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , 4.3 4 , 4 .
4 , 3 , Graph .
We thus arrive at a generalization of the notion of a conjugate partition , and convinced that the proper representation of a Ferrers-graph is not by nodes or points , by units .
MAJOR P. A. MAClfAHON ON OF TITIONS OF ) When the mixed elements .
in descending order of we a corresl ) dence between nnip rtite partitions ) multipartite partitions of a certain clnss .
Art .
78 .
Tt is to consirler the parts of a arranged in nding order .
The function enables to assign any desired of yeel ) the successive parts .
In the of three parts we have already considered the system For the system we have the solution ' Itnd thence the reduced geltertttor and the nctio .
( 1- On the other hand , for the system we construct leading to the real and ting functions ' of the former , the denominator shows the ground solutions , 7 ndamentai itiol ) ; and the enumerator points to the syzygy MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTTTIONS OF NUMBERS .
Art .
79 .
If the partition be into parts , we can assign different orders upon the svmbols , and these all be expressed by conditional iollS affecting , . .
, involving the symbo ] only .
These are not all different , as one order does or does not give rise to a different order by ersions of parts .
by the letters , we have the orders , ad , ; the orders are not essentially different , because interchange of and combined with inversion converts the one into the other ; are essentially different , because this two-fold operation leaves each of these unchanged .
Hence there are three orders to be considered , and the ] have been obtained obove .
For we have the essentially different orders , add .
The first of these has been obtained ; the other three are solved by the functions : ; ; which reduce to the three expressions : .
; .
and to the three enumerating functions : ; ; I last generating function that has been written down gives the tion of the system of conditions ; MAJOR P A IAHON ON OF PARTITIONS OF the ground solutions , , , , , ; the three ) given by and the npound sygies by Art .
80 .
In genleral , when the number of parts is have orders which are altered of , combined inyersion , , which itro unaltered where Hence the llutnber of essentially different orders is To detcrmin illl order . .
will be unaltered by ) operations spoken of when . .
; so that must bc evcn here will be such unaltered urders each artition of into cvell Hen ce the ' function is giving for .
the numbers . .
The theol .
V , so far , has been concern ( 1 with ) line .
The to be placed the points upon a line with one of the symbols placed between cvery ints .
the unction ound denotes .
Tf we these factors the uccessive points of the line , exhibition of the ting function , .
:\mdash ; simple that the following ation shows to be fundamental in idea .
on to con cider partitions parts placed the points of a twoensional lattice .
For clearnebs take the elementary case of parts placed the points of vilb symbuls ] ) .
We have to solve The fonr jccb bu orders .
For the surn have function MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUMBERS .
369 1 which reduces to ' establishing the ground solutions ; ; ; ; .
connected by the syzygy indicated by and leading to the enumerating function Art .
83 .
If the parts be restricted not to exceed in magnitude , we may take as function 1 \mdash ; : , 1 \mdash ; and herein , and reducing , we get and we notice that we may represent this diagrammatically on the points of original lattice , viz. :\mdash ; VOL. CXCII.\mdash ; A. Art .
84 .
We next have to observe the identity and to note that the dexter leads to the enumerating function ' corresponding to the problem of two superposable ]ayers of units , each of two rows ; in the case indicated superposition yields ; the hrst row contains a combined number of two 's and units the combined numbers in the second row , further , the number of two 's in first row , the number of two 's in second row .
In the function these conditions are secured by the auxiliaries , respectively , and it is established that the problem of partition at the points of the elementary simple square ) lattice is identical with that of two , each of at most two rows .
In fact , the graph the axis of being perpendicular to the plane of the paper , is immediately convertible to the lattice form by projection , with summation of units , upon the plane .
The numbers at the points of the square lattice would be 6 , 4 , 4 , 2 respectively .
MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUMBERS .
371 Art .
85 .
Observe too that the partition is also one upon another kind of lattice in which the part-magnitude is limited not to exceed 2 .
Here , starting from the origin , we may proceed to the opposite point of the lattice along any line of route which proceeds in the direction either axis , the condition is that along each line of route ( here there are six ) the be in descending order and limited in nitude to 2 .
Art .
86 .
We have , therefore , solved the system of conditions : . . . .
which is seen to possess the same solution as the system ; and we remark the diagrammatic representation the product of all the factors being Art .
87 .
I return to the enumerating function to note that it may be exhibited as ; the interprelation of which is that the coefficient of in the development gives the number of instances in which being integers satisfying the conditions We arrive at the form question if for these conditions we construct and then put The graphical representation is of the form the numbers of figures in the rows being in descending order and the third row of figures zeros .
Art .
88 .
As another instance of the elementary lattice take the system leading to reducing to MAJOR A llACfAHON ON THE OF PARTITION OF RS .
establishing the fundamental solutions ; ; connected by the syzygy indicated by ; ; ; Art .
89 .
A more general generating function connected with the elementary lattice and descending ordel .
S is 1\mdash ; where now are restricted not to exceed respectively , and of course are conditions .
It should be remarked that we examine the case of bipartite partitions with regular graphs by putting Part-magnitude being unlimited , the reduced function is ' and is Art .
90 .
Leaving the particular case , I pass on to consider the general theory of partitions at the points of a lattice in two dimensions .
It can be shown immediately that it is coincident with the theory of those partitions of all multipartite numbers which can be represented by regular graphs in three dimensions .
For consider the superposition of any number of unit graphs , adding into single numbers the units in the same vertical line .
We obtain a scheme of numbers . . .
374 }fAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON OF RTITIONS OF NOMBERS .
in all the rows and all the columns taken in the positive directions along the axes of in descending order .
We may consider these numbers to be placed at the points of a lattice of which the ides involve and points along the sides parallel to axes of and respectively ; will then be a limit to the number of units in any row of a unit and will be the limit to the number of rows .
There is a descending order along line of route from the origin to the opposite corner of the lattice , and there are altogether such lines of route .
Art .
91 .
The theory of the regular partitions of multipartite numbers is thus reduced to a lattice partition into parts in .
The conditional relations may be written and for the sum we at once write down the generating function , viz. :\mdash ; MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF RS .
375 . . .
to factors .
to factors .
to factors \amp ; c. to factors to factors to factors If , he part-magnitude be limited to , we must place as numerator in the function . . .
to ? ?
factors to factors \amp ; c. to factors to factors and if we pliease we may reject all the numerator factors except Art .
92 .
The existence of the three-dimensional graph shows that this function remains unaltered , when is put equal to , for every substitution impressed upon the numbers but there is a still more refined theorem of reciprocity connected with a more general generating function .
Suppose that the number of layers which involve 1 , 2 , 3 , \amp ; c. rows be restricted to , . .
; that the successive layers are restricted to involve most , . .
rows ; and that the successive rows of the layers are restricted to contain most units .
We have then the comprehensive function:\mdash ; hIAJOR P. .
MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUMBERS . .
to factors to factors to factors \amp ; c. to factors to .
factors to factors .
1 \mdash ; .
1 \mdash ; .
to factors \mdash ; \mdash ; to factors \mdash ; \mdash ; . .
to factors \amp ; c. to factors to factors to factors wherein , naturally , each of the series . . .
is in descending order , and the theorem of reciprocity involved in the fact of the existence of the graph consists in the circumstance that the function remains unaltered , when is put to , for any substitution impressed upon the unsuffixed symbols In the corresponding lattice the conditions The first , second , \amp ; c. , rows do not contain more than , \amp ; c. numbers respectively ; ( ii .
) The first , second , \amp ; c. , rows do not contain higher numbers than , \amp ; c. .
; ( iii .
) No number so great as occurs below row for all values of ; , . . . .
being of course in descending order of magnitude .
Art .
93 .
The reduction of this function presents great difficulties , and I propose to restrict consideration to the case . . .
IAJOR P. A. ON THEORY PAliTI 1 NUM ] the functionl to the titi o into most } ] of numbers , such ) csult i lnnclion by the efficients uf ' the lullber of bitions of -partite into most parts .
Art .
94 .
] putting .
the coefficients of the number of solido or nnip tionb two-dimensional lattice , limited , as ve , nulnbcrs This function appears to be reclucible to the 1 of in tableau below:\mdash ; ; ' ; vel.ihed in mltitude of particular waits dtion .
it been proved independently Professor FORSYTH by ) resent uthor .
The )'mlnatic eition of the result at the 1 ) of the is the product is invariant substitution , it buch exhibitiun sides , so that } in all a corner ) oint , ding it an of axes , and proceed to the opposite corn er , iUly line ronte , such ression V0L .
P. A. AHON ON OF OF section of the lattice in the positive direction , king t successive ched t , th \amp ; c. point , marked , we , ( nd cxpress the ting function as ) roduct of such factors .
be factor is ) the form if the number ) } on the lattice , we have a factor ( s ) the complete result may be written Art .
9 Hence the enumeration is identical with that of the rtitions of into an of of of the value but diffel.ently coloured .
nuInbel .
of distinct lines of in lattice of points so that , in , oll the lattice we have partitions of number into parts subject to descending Such a partition is transformable into one composed of the parts I colour \ldquo ; , , ?
, MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THEORY OF PARTITION , S OF NUMBERS .
379 a theorem of ocity a to and including the well-known theorem connected with the partitions of a nulnber on a line .
There is also a lattice connected with titions on a line , for the unit-graph of partition is nothing more than a number of units and zeros placed at the points of a two- dimensional lattice , such numbers being subject to the descending orders .
Art .
96 .
The fact is that the theory of the two-dimensional lattice , the partmagnitude being restricted to unity , is co-extensive with the whole theory of partitions upon a line .
Hence for such partitions we may represent the enerating function , diagrammatically , in two ways upon a lattice as well as in two wnys upon a line .
two representations upon a line are .
( 2 , . .
Upon a lattice we ave and at the point marked we place the factor The second lattice is obtained by of and The product thus obtained is 380 IAJOR P. [ AHON THFORY OF TITTONS OF l ) denoting the.urate number of the second order , and is shown to be equal to the nber of points of the lattice ) .
We have to is equal to .
observe occurs in the former the power , - ; if if and if ; i , s , therefore , Art .
97 .
When the function is may be written which is deduced a esentation in two dimensions involving units nd , and the successive involve the numl ) 1 ; 1 , 0 ; 1 , , 0 ; 1 , ; .
ctively .
In the general case there is a representation , proper restrictions upon the nulnbers of ures in the MAJOR P. } AHON ON OP PARTITIONS OF NUNBERS .
Section 7 .
Art .
08 .
Tt conjectured that the lattice olid , wonbd results of equal in terest , but .
this on inveht i( to ) .
The simplest of such tticcs is that ) the I ) ] cube the ) ttches the of cube .
a a- ( is titio of a number into ' the tions indicated the shown .
The .
is in the positive direction ] ) to each axis .
The-Q nctiol is difficult to deal with , and the result which have too complicated to ) worth .
I therefore put at once and seek the sll1ll .
I divide into htccn 1 as follows : \mdash ; Conditions .
sult .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) P. IlON ON 38 Conditions .
; esult .
( I ) ( 1 ) ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 8 ) by itddition the resulting , is .
By with the lattice in one might thab hc result would been ( 1 ) .
but this is not so , although the two functions do coincide as the coefficient ' sive .
In fact , the two expansions yield respectively \ldquo ; , the succccdingficients becoming widely divergent .
( hat also us to that , il bc limited , the resul ronld be ; but this dues not hapl ) to be expressible in a finite integral a fact which the immedi te rejection of conj c ) in question is only finite and integral when is of the lorm ) .
We * Mr. A. B. , has this conclusion by uost igonious methud of tion , which nlso eadily yields the result for any desired ictio on the uitudc , ,384 AHON ON THF THEORY OF fTIONS OF th the ession doe , s give the enumeration when , fur the .
is easily to be which the second of these immediately rrests the 'ttention , for , , it denotes ulnbel .
of rtitions on a lattice of loul points ( in fact , ilude b. limited not to exceed 2 .
The reason .
this is lollovs rTakin the cube with any distribution of units summits , we may project lits upon the plane of adding ) the units on the cube edges at light to thus obtain it ibution , on the of the cube in linrited in nitndc to 2 .
ctiun establishes the now be generalized .
tiCc of , and lributiu of units the points of llice which Ioken succession long each line of route ough the lattice from tho origin to opposite corner , of route always proceeding parallel 10 the axes in a positive sense .
Now project and sum units on the of MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF IONS o NUAJBhRS .
385 The result is a partition of the number at the points of a lattice in plano whose sides contain and points respectively , the part-magnitude being limited to exceed .
The descending order in this Iattice is clearly from the origin to the opposite corner in the plane along each of its lines of route .
The enumerating generating function is ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) . .
( 5 ) . .
Each factor may be supposed point of the respond !
lattice ; if any ) oint is the line of route the factor is The number of points at which we place ( s ) is equal to the coefficient of in the ) that is of .
If be in ascending order and , denote the figurate number of the second order , this coefficient is the term being onlitted because is most Hence the generating function may be written Art .
101 .
It is now important to show the connexion between this result.and the original lattice in VOL. CXCII .
MAJOR P. A. hIAC l ON THE THEORY PARTITIONS or NUMBERS .
I say that this generating function may be exhibited by factors placed at the points of the lattice in solido .
These ctors are of form ( s ) and such factor must bs placed at every point which is the occurring along a line of route in the cubic ation .
1 take in ascending order , remark that the number of points possessing this property is the coefficient of in the product , which is , and that , if denote the of the third order of urate numbers , this coefficient \mdash ; the term being omitted , because is at most I propose , therefore , to prove the identity The factor occul .
S to the power on the sinister side , and to the power on the dexter .
But Hence , under all circumstances , the two powers must be equal .
Again the factor ( s ) occurs to the power , on the sinister side , and to the power MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON OF PARTTTIONS OF NUMBERS .
387 on the dexter , and again the two powers are equa ] .
Hence the identity under consideration is ] ished , and this carries with it the proof of the representation of the generating function on the points of the solid tion .
Art .
102 .
I resume the general theory of the partitions on the summits of a cube .
When the parts are unrestricted in magnitude the genel.ating functionl has been found .
A proceqs to that employed leads to the theorem that when the arts are restricted not to ex ceed in magnitude the ) enerating function is the quotient of by , the required number given by the coefficient of .
Denoting the numerator by , the whole coefficient of is Denoting this generating function , I find ( 1 ) ' ' ( 1 ) ( 4 ) ' whence ( 1 ) ' and in general ( 1 ) ( 2 ) . . .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) . . . . .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) . .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) .
( 1 ) ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) . .
( 1 ) ) ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) Art .
103 .
This appears to be the 1nost symmetrical form in which the generating function be exhibited , and it may be assumed that the like function for the solid reticulation in general will be of complicated nature .
The argument that has been given shows that the theory of -dimensional lattice ( easily realizable in plano ) , the part-magnitude being limited so as not to exceed unity , is co-extensive with the whole theory of partitions on the lattice of dimensions .
Section 8 .
Art .
104 .
The enunlerating generating functions that are met with at the outset in the theory of the partitions of numbers are such as are formed by factors of the forms written for brevity .
All those which appear in connection with regular graphs in two and three dimensions are so expressible , and the mere fact of such expression proves beyond question that the numerator of the generating function is exactly divisible by the denominator ; in other words , it proves that the function can be put into a finite integral form ] .
It is quite natural therefore to seek the general expression of functions of this form , which possesses this property of competency to generate a finite number of terms .
Moreover , it is conceivable that such a determination will indicate the paths of future research in these matters : will be in fact a sign-post at the cross-ways .
This is the reason why I undertook the investigation ; but , as frequently happens in similar cases , the problem proves a posteriori to be per se of great interest and to involve in itself a notable theorem in partitions .
Art .
105 .
I consider the function which I also write MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NUMBERS .
and investigate the sum for all values of , .
, which render the expression under the sign of summation expressible in a finite form for values of the integer Art .
106 .
Let that factor of which , when equated to zero , yields all the primitive roots of the equation Then where 1 , are all the iivisors of .
We must find the circumstances under which every expression will occur at least as often in the numerator as in the denominator .
We need not attend to , since it occurs with equal frequency in numerator and denominator .
In regard to , we have equal frequency if be uneven , but if ?
be even we must have . . .
For if mod .3 , . . . . .
, and if . . .
, while the case of need not be attended to .
Proceeding in this manner we find the following conditions:\mdash ; Ss ( s\mdash ; l ) in number .
The next ] ) is to an fullction which shall express these conditions lead to desired summation .
take ; there is but one condition -s and the function is every tcrm in the sion of this function is of required form , and no other forms exi , .
The term we may call and .
the ground from which all other forms are derived .
Art .
108 .
Next take S. conditions are leading to the summation formula the auxiliaries determining the first , second and third conditions respectively .
The function is equal to \mdash ; X. representing the complete solution .
MAJOR P. A. MACMAHON ON THE THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF NU .
391 The denominator factors yield the ground in addition to those previously met with , whilst the ator factor the ground form syzygy are those with which we are familiar in the theories of simple and compound partition respectively .
Art .
109 .
I pass on to the case ; the conditions are We neglect the fifth of these as being implied by the remainder and from the function \mdash ; which , when reduced , is showing that the new ground forms are and , both of which have thenlselves before .
The result may be written .
and the numerator now indicates the existence of first and second syzygies between the ground forms .
We have the first ( .
, ) and the second syzygies ( , .
) Art .
110 .
For , the generating function is .
and there is no difficulty in continuing the series .
The obtaining , however , of the reduced forms soon becomes laborious .
Art .
111 .
There is another method of investigation .
Guided by the results obtained let us restrict consideration to the forms which are ) This is of great importance , because we are thus able , for any given order , to generate the functions of that order alone .
Put and seek Art .
112 .
For , the generating function is simply Art .
113 .
For , the conditions lead to the letters determining the first and second conditions respectively * The lidity of this assumption will be considered later .
P. IACMAHON ON OItY O OF NU3[BERS .
This is on a real function .
Art .
114 .
For , the conditions are the same , .
:\mdash ; and the ) , where ltow the ornl s already found by the first method . .
For the conditions are to where and this is - .
, .
establi s the ground forms CXCTT .
connected by the simple syzygy Art . .
I stop to rernark that one of these )onnd forms , viz. :\mdash ; is new , not having so far presented itself in a partition theorem .
It is one of an infinite , stem which merits , and will receive , separate consideration .
on .
The one !
uq associ ated partitions at the points of lattice .
: leading to where This is .
, establishing the ground forms : unconn cted by any syzygy .
MAJOR P. .
MACIIAHON ON THIit OF PARTITIONS OF .
395 Art .
118 .
, the indepondent conditions : in succession \ldquo ; .
; 1 and climinating .
\mdash ; \mdash ; and ting \ldquo ; And reduction it is ] the grouncl ) 396 AJOR -p .
A. IIACIAHON ON ] THLORY OF PARTITIONS OF ] cunneclc by the these respectively by and , the term the second , or ) outld , .
I the fornls illc ) to ] rlition l , the reduced condi tionls a .
to 1\mdash ; - 1 .
llAiOH P. .
MACMAHON ON TH the ) that } roducts which can be ) of .
, . . .
, . .
grcund forms values of and ?
I have established this thus proved ured result for the eneral lattice is , at rate , finite ctld it should be .
Tt is to obtain inforulntion the ground which not within the rectangular The forms which ] lppear in ] the tableau , may be eliminated consideration , with the exception of the form by ascribing additional conditions such as which are not true in the tableau .
The colldition tableau is that if , no indcx is , : repetition index , rise index takes ) .
In the \ldquo ; we assign the conditions for any of , as one excluding the whole oi the forms ) aining to the bleau .
impress the conditions MAJOR P. A. MACI[AHON ON ]HEORY OF PARTITIONS NUIIBC [ lS .
in itccession , may combine any number of conditions as are inde(Ient . .
I , further into this heory , and will that the tableau is , in fact , finite and integral .
oduct in question for is so that for for and the conditions be resumed the single and being any integers .
Let the test integer be denoted by or by simply for evity .
let .
to } ' to to to and to We derive or or or or ' we ten ) ssible cases to consider , viz. :\mdash ; Case 1 .
I similarly the series we find in each of the ten cases to establish the relation for all values of and it to which is true , for here For Case 2 , making use of , the reduction is to and being the greatest integer in ' and lnoreover being at least unity , tion is obviously satisfied .
Case 3 , making use of , we find ' and this is satisfied as Case 4 , by , we find obviously true from the definition of ( reducing by ) , we find usly s For Case .
reducing by , we find clearly satisfied .
MA JOR P. A. IIACIs[AIION ON THEORY OF PARTITIONS OF } .
40 ] .
Case 7 , reducing by .
we find which is right . .
Case 8 , cing by , we find which is satisfied . .
Case 9 , by , the ratio is one of equality .
For Case 10 , educing by , we find which is right .
Hence the relation is universally satisfied , and we have that the expression .
, is in every case finite and iralb .
Art .
123 .
of this Memoir I } ) to treat of other systems of ] and fullctions hich fvithi n the ) of pal.titio analysis and theory of the linear co1nposition of integers ; also to take the analysis and linear ) iophantine aysis , with possible extensions to degrees .
VOL. CXCIL.\mdash ; A.

