1874 .
] Prof. P. M. Duncan on the Nervous System Actinia .
263 Homstein ( C. ) TTeber die Abhangigkeit der taglichen Variation des Barometerstandes von der Botation der Son .
8vo .
Wien 1873 .
The Author .
Houk ( Mrs. G. W. ) Diminution of Water on the Earth , and its permanent conversion into solid forms .
8vo .
Drayton , Ohio 1873 .
The Author .
Klein ( E. ) The Anatomy of the Lymphatic System .
I. Serous Membranes .
8vo .
London 1873 .
The Author .
Salmon ( Dr. G. ) , E.E.S. A Treatise on the Analytic Geometry of Three Dimensions .
Third Edition .
8vo .
Dublin 1874 .
' .
The Author .
Willson ( W. G. ) The Cyclone in the Bay of Bengal in June 1872 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1872 .
The Author .
' Les Eaux Thermales de File de San-Miguel ( Agores ) , Portugal .
8vo .
Lisbonne1873 .
Comte Da Praia Da Victoria.* " On the Nervous System of Actinia"\#151 ; Part I. By Professor P. Martin Duncan , M.B. Lond. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received October 9 , 1873 .
L A Notice of the Investigations of and Rottelcen , and others on the subject .
MM .
Milne-Edwards and Jules Haime* wrote as follows in 1857 concerning the nervous attributes of the group of Coelenterata called Zoantharia:\#151 ; " They ( les Coralliaires ) enjoy a highly developed sensibility ; not only do they contract forcibly upon the slightest touch , but they are , moreover , not insensible to the influence of light .
Nevertheless , neither a nervous system nor organs of special sense have been discovered in them .
It is true that Spix described and figured ganglions and nervous cords in the pedal disk of Actiniae ; but the observations of this naturalist , so far as polypes are concerned , are not entitled to the least confidence .
Some naturalists have supposed that the ' bourses calicinales ' of the Actiniae are eyes , and M. Huschke believes that certain capsules in the trunk of Veretilla , which contain calcareous bodies , are the organs of hearing .
But these hypotheses do not rest upon any proved facts .
" * Hist , Not , des Coralliaires , vol. i. p. 11 .
Prof. P. M. Duncan on the In 1864 Huxley noticed that , with regard to the Ccelenterata , " a nervous system has at present been clearly made out only in the Cteno-phora Homard t , an admirable observer , contributed to the histology of the Actinozoa in 1851 .
He corrected Erdl 's mistake concerning the supposed striation of the muscular fibrillse of the tentacles , and also Quatre-fage and Leuckart 's notion concerning the rupture of the tentacular ends previously to the passage of water from them .
Hiving very good illustrations , he proved himself to be a very reliable investigator .
Amongst other parts of the Actinozoa , he paid especial attention to the 22i.iiiu.tiG anatomy of the bourses calicinales .
These bead-like appendages , situated just without the tentacles in some genera , but not in all , are also called chromatophores and " bourses marginales ; " and their beautiful turquoise colour had rendered them attractive to previous anatomists , who had , as has already been noticed , guessed concerning their function .
Homard determined that they were folded elements of the skin in which the capsules ( nematocysts ) were enormously developed .
He stated that the thread of these gigantic nematocysts was seen with difficulty .
He noticed the transparency of some large cells in the bourses , and stated that , in his opinion , there was " some physiological relation between these little organs and the light .
Jules Haime ( probably in 1855 ) examined the minute anatomy ot Actinia mesembryanthemum , and his colleague , Milne-Edwards , quotes him in the ' Hist. Not .
des Coralliaires , ' vol. i. p. 240 .
The lamented young naturalist found out that the chromatophores bore , so far as their number is concerned , a decided numerical relation with the number of the tentacles .
He decided that they contained but few muscular fibres and had navicular-shaped nematocysts , " diversement contournes , wit indistinct threads within them .
However , he recognized large transparent cells and pigmentary granules in them .
The nematocysts of the chromatophores are larger than those of the tentacles .
He was evidently not satisfied with the data upon which these coloured masses were decided to be of importance as organs of special sense .
In all probability Haime was aware of Homard s work . .
\#166 ; . .
, Kolliker and the Herman histologists added about this time , and later , to the exact knowledge respecting the histology of the muscles skin , endothelium , and tentacular apparatus , but no advance was im wards the discovery of a nervous system in the for many In 1871 the popular idea of the extent of the nervous system * Huxley , ' Elements of Comparative Anatomy^p .
82 .
on Beroe pileus , Zool. Trans , vol. 1 .
p. 10.^ See also A Ccelenterata , ' by J. R. Greene , 1861 , p. 165 .
f " Sir les Actiniae , " Ann. des Sciences Not .
1851 .
X Sea-side Studies , Eliz .
and A. Agassiz , 1871 , P- 12 .
Nervous System of Actinia .
Actinia was expressed by Alex .
Agassiz \#163 ; , who wrote:\#151 ; " Notwithstanding its extraordinary sensitiveness , the organs of the senses in the Actinia are very inferior , consisting only of a few pigment-cells accumulated at the base of the tentacles .
" But in this year a great advance was made towards discovery by Profs .
A. Schneider and Kotteken* .
The first-named naturalist paid especial attention to the development of the lamellae and septa in Corals and Actiniae , and his colleague laboured in the histology of Actinia especially .
Working at a very great disadvantage , with specimens which had been preserved in alcohol , Botteken produced a series of researches which added greatly to the knowledge already granted to science by Homard and Haime .
So far as they bear on the nervous system , the result of his researches may be stated as follows " The bourses marginales " ( chroma-tophores ) are undoubtedly organs of sense , and , indeed , compound eyes .
They are pyriform diverticula of the body-wall , standing between the tentacles and the outer margin of the peristome ; they are constructed after the fashion of a retina , and the following layers of structure may be distinguished in them:\#151 ; 1 , externally a cuticular layer broken up into " bacilli by numerous pore-canals a layer of strongly retractile spherules , which may be regarded as lenses ; 3 , cones\#151 ; hollow , strongly retractile , transversely striated cylinders or prisms rounded at the ends ; these have hitherto been confounded with urticating capsules ( nemato-cysts ) : at the exterior end of each cone there is generally one lens , and sometimes two or three may stand in the interspaces j 4 , a granular fibrous layer occupying the interspaces between the cones ; 5 , a layer which is deeply stained by carmine , and contains numerous extremely fine fibres and spindle-shaped cells , probably nerve-fibres and cells ; 6 , the muscular layer ; 7 , the endothelium , which bounds the perigastric cavity .
Actinia mesembryanthemumwas the species examined , and the diagram ( PI .
II .
fig. 15 ) will explain the relative position of the layers .
Botteken could not determine the position of the pigment of the chromatophores from the alcoholized specimens .
An examination of the minute anatomy of the tentacles of Actinia cereus , Ellis and Solander , determined that the refractile spherules and large cones were to be found on the tips of these organs .
Danat , in his popular work on Corals and Coral Islands , appears to accept the statements quoted above .
He states that " they sometimes possess rudimentary eyesand elsewhere , " they have crystalline lenses and a short optic nerve .
" He then observes:\#151 ; " Yet Actinia ) are not * Sitzungsberiolit der Oberhessischen Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde , March 1871 ( On the Structure of Actinias and Corals ) .
Translated for the Ann. and Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1871 , vii .
p. 437 , by W. S. Dallas , F.L.S. \amp ; c. t Corals and Coral Islands , by James D. Dana , LL. D. , 1872 , pp. 41 , 39 .
Prof. P. M. Duncan on known to have a proper nervous system ; their optic nerves , where they exist , are apparently isolated , and not connected with a nervous riug such as exists in the higher Eadiate animals .
" ji Description of the Morphology of the During the summer of 1871 the author of this communication was examining into the minute anatomy of Actinia mesembryanthemum , and had the advantage of possessing living specimens .
Having satisfied himself of the general correctness of Eotteken 's admirable work , he relinquished the inquiry until 1873 , when he resumed it .
Every one who has endeavoured to anatomize one of the Actiniae must acknowledge the excessive difficulties which accompany the attempt .
The irritability of the muscular tissues , their persistent contraction during manipulation , the confusion caused by the abundance of different cellular histological elements , and the general sliminess of the whole , render the minute examination very troublesome and usually very unsatisfactory .
Eeagents are useful for rough examinations ; but when the most delicate of the tissues are to be examined they must be floated under sea-water , and this must be the medium in which they must be examined under the microscope .
Carmine-solution , osmic acid , and spirits of wine in weak solutions are useful after the natural appearances have been determined , but they exaggerate some histological elements and destroy others .
Great care must be taken in making the thin sections , and no tearing must be allowed ; for it is of paramount importance , in endeavouring to trace the nervous system , that the relative position of parts should be retained .
It is useless to rely on any observations made with object-glasses lower than y^-inch focus ( immersive ) .
In examining the chromatophores , Actiniae with very bright-coloured ones , and other specimens with these organs dull in tint , should be selected .
Eresh subjects should be obtained , and it is not necessary to kill them first of all .
The blades of very delicate scissors should be allowed to touch the desired chromatophore close to its base , and then as the Actinia commences to contract , they should be brought together gently and without wrenching the tissues .
By this method the chromatophore will remain on the blades .
Two or three chromatophores may be removed , with their intermediate tissues , without injury to the animal ; but , of course , the excision must not be too deep , or the endothelium wi be cut into .
, A dropping-tube should be used to wash the chromatophore oft the blades on to a glass slide , where a drop of sea-water awaits it .
Sections are by no means easy to make , but they are best pel orme under a power of 10 diameters with fine scalpels .
The forceps mus no e employed , as it crushes the tissues .
If possible , very slight pressu Nervous System Actinia .
should be exercised on the thin glass , which is to be placed very carefully and wet over the object .
After the examination , carmine should be added , or osinic-acid solution , 1 per cent , in strength ; but no results can be relied on which are derived from the examination under the influence of reagents alone , as they modify the natural appearance greatly .
So far as the chromatophores are concerned , my investigations took the following course:\#151 ; 1 .
Eotteken 's researches on the alcoholized Actinia Avere followed in recent specimens .
2 .
The tissues of the chromatophores , of their margins , and of the spaces between them were examined in a large specimen of a living pale-green variety of Actinia mesembryan-themuni from the Mediterranean .
3 .
The tissues of the chromatophores of the Actinia mesembryanthemumwere again examined with a ArieAV to explain the differences between M. Eotteken 's and my own results .
The rounded , free , coloured , external layer of a chromatophore was carefully disengaged from the granular tissue beneath it , so that the bacilli of Rbtteken , the retractile corpuscles , and his so-called cones were separated from the rest .
This turquoise-coloured film was floated and carefully placed on a glass slide , the bacillary layer being inferior and on the glass , \A*hilst the proximal ends of the cones Avere free in the Avater .
No thin glass aaus placed over the film , and an object-glass of |-inch focus Avas used .
The appearance presented under this Ioav power ( by transmitted light ) was very remarkable , for a great number of brilliant points of light Avere seen surrounded and separated by dark opaque tissue .
When a |-inch object-glass was used , the appearance was less striking , for the points of light Avere more diffused .
No trace of an object could be seen through the retractile tissues .
The transparent and retractile tissues Avere the so-called bacilli , the globular bodies and the " cones " already noticed ; and the tissue , Avhich Avas impermeable by light , consisted of the colouring-matter in small dull granules , cells small and round in outline and granular , and also the cell-Avalls of the cones .
Sections through a chromatophore Avere made at right angles to the point of the greatest convexity of the surface , and thin slices Avere floated off carefully from the line of section on to glass slides .
The slices included ( a ) the coloured outside of the chromatophore , the tissue beneath it , and ( c ) some muscular fibres which limit the endothelium .
Sea-Avater Avas used as the medium , and a thin glass cover Avas applied after the specimens had been examined Avith a Ioav power .
Externally was the baccillary layer ( PI .
II .
fig. 15 ) .
Rotteken describes this as a cuticular layer broken up into bacilli by numerous pore-canals .
Examined , however , in the fresh subject , this external layer consisted of a vast multitude of small rod-shaped bodies , sharply rounded but conical at both ends , very transparent , and resembling the smallest Prof. P. M. Duncan on the nematocysts of the tentacles without the internal thread ( PI .
II .
fig. 2 ) .
These are placed side by side , and the external rounded end of each is separated by a small space from the terminations of its neighbours .
These ends are free and are in contact with the water in which the Actinia lives .
The rods are cylinders , and are separated from each other by a very delicate film of protoplasm , in which are numerous dark opaque granules and a few flat simple colourless rounded cells ( PL II .
fig. 3 ) .
The inner ends are shaped like the external , and are embedded in the next layer of tissue .
Each of these bodies is a simple cell filled with a transparent fluid .
When a thin film of the surface of a chromatophore is removed and examined under a J^-inch , the bacilli may be observed to crowd together over a layer of large refractile cells .
The thin glass cover is generally sufficient to crush down the bacilli , so that their sides may be seen as they rest in all kinds of positions on the deeper cellular layer ( PI .
II .
fig. 17 ) .
The bacilli are not found universally over the chromatophores , nor do they invariably cover the layer of large refractile globular cells .
It will be noticed , on examining excised portions which include two or three chromatophores and their intermediate tissue , that not only are they marked on their surface by foldings of their superficial tissue , but that between them there are others which are microscopic .
These last rarely have bacilli .
Moreover , in some parts of the margins of the chromatophores , other pigments are visible than the turquoise , and the red often predominates ; the bacilli are not usually present there .
Beneath the superficial layer of bacilli and their separating protoplasm , which is faintly granular , there is some granular tissue with a few small spherical cells containing granules , and the inner ends of the bacilli are embedded therein ( PI .
II .
fig. 3 ) .
This granular tissue is very thin , but it covers and dips down between the large refractile cells , which form the next layer ( PI .
II .
figs. 4 , 13 , 15 , 16,17 ) .
These cells are more or less spherical ; the cell-wall is very thin , and the contents are transparent , colourless , and refractile .
Some have a pale grey tint , and one or more extremely faint nuclei are attached to the inner surface of the cell-wall .
The ovoid shape is occasionally seen .
These large cells , which transmit light so readily , are universally found on the chromatophores ; and when there are bacilli upon them , the spherical shape is common .
At the margins of the chromatophores , and where the red pigment commences , these refractile cells assume much larger dimensions and more irregular shapes .
These refractile cells are , as has already been noticed , embedded in a tissue of granular and slightly cellular protoplasm , and this occasionally is differentiated into some peculiar structures .
Where there are no bacilli this granular tissue is increased in thickness Nervous System of Actinia .
269 and becomes superficial ; moreover the granules then contribute to the colour of the chromatophore , and probably they always do so to a certain degree .
The retractile cells are not invariably confined to the layer above the so-called cones of Botteken , although they are often thus limited in their position , especially if there are bacilli covering them .
In parts of the same chromatophore , where this apparently normal arrangement is seen , and especially on the microscopic chromatophores between the larger kinds , the large retractile spherules are found between and in the midst of groups of the cones ( PL II .
fig. 16 ) .
In the chromatophores there is considerable variety in the size of the retractile cells ; they appear to be developed from the small cells with a circular outline , which contain a few dark granules , and which are found in considerable abundance amidst the enveloping granular tissue ( PL H. fig. 8 ) .
The most striking of all the histological elements of the chromatophores are the cones of Botteken , or the nematocysts with imperfectly visible threads of Homard .
They are divisible into three series :\#151 ; a. Elongated simple cells , cylindrical in shape , with rounded and somewhat pointed extremities , consisting of a tough cell-wall which is capable of being bent without being broken or ruptured , and of colourless transparent contents which are rather viscid ( PL II .
fig. 5 ) .
They are four or five times the length of the bacilli , and three times their width .
The cell-wall is faintly tinted with the peculiar colour of the chromatophore .
These elongated cells are not conical , nor can they be really termed cones with any propriety ; when observed through their greatest length , or when the light traverses their long axis , the cell-wall appears dark and the centre very retractile .
They exist in vast multitudes over most parts of the chromatophore , and also in the intermediate tissue and its microscopic chromatophores .
ft. Cells of the same shape as " but the cell-wall is faintly striated , the appearance being very distinct under a power of 2000 diameters ( Pl .
II .
fig. 6 ) .
These cells are very numerous , and were noticed by Botteken ; they appear in the same position , and often amongst the cells with simple walls .
y. Cells of the same shape and size as " a and with a well-developed thread within them , which usually has no barb ( Pl .
II .
fig. 7 ) .
These cells are common where there are no bacilli , but they occur here and there in all parts of the chromatophore circle .
In some rare instances the " Botteken bodies " ( for thus I would name these remarkable cells ) are closely approximated , side by side , without the intervention of any structure ; but , usually , there is a very thin layer of granular protoplasm , containing small cells , between them .
As the bodies are cylindrical and more or less closely applied by their Prof. P. M. Duncan on the sides , there is more space between them in some places than in others ; .
and it is in these spots , where the bodies cannot come in direct contact , that their intermediate structures are elongated and filiform ( PI .
II .
figs. 9--14 ) .
The filiform arrangement of the granulo-cellular protoplasm is often branched , and a set of elongated masses may unite above or below the bodies .
The cells of this intermediate tissue are small and usually spherical ; in one kind there is a large retractile nucleus , but in the commonest varieties the cells simply contain granules .
It is necessary to study this tissue , because of its close agreement to what I presume to be the nerve-structure , in some , but not in the essential , points .
This tissue is clearly continuous with that which has already been noticed as separating and bounding the larger retractile cells outside the Potteken bodies , and it is continued amongst the small closely set granular cells which underlie these interesting histological elements ( PL II .
fig. 13 ) .
The intermediate tissue binds together the bacilli ; for it is continued upwards and between them , the large retractile cells ( which I propose to term " Haimean bodies " ) , and the " Rotteken bodies , " and it becomes lost in the cells upon which the proximal ends of these last rest .
It contains the granular structures which give , in the mass , the colour to the chromatophore , and it is evident that the Haimean bodies are developed from it .
The proximal ends of the Potteken bodies retain their sharp and rounded contour amidst the dense layers of small granular cells which everywhere underlie them .
Those granular cells form a tissue through which light passes with difficulty under the microscope .
They are regularly placed in series near the Potteken bodies ; but deeper they become less so , and then other anatomical elements may be observed between them and the muscular fibres upon which the whole chromatophore rests , and which in their turn limit externally the endothelium .
III .
A. Notice of RotteJcen 's discovery of Fusiform Cells and of the different appearances of the Nervous Elements now first observed in the " form Tissue .
" Potteken describes these nervous elements as extremely fine fibres and spindle-shaped cells , and asserts that they are probably nerve-fibres and cells .
But he has not traced them in conjunction , nor have the fibres been seen of sufficient length to anastomose .
I have found the fusiform bodies and their long ends\#151 ; the fine fibres mentioned above .
Moreover the connexion of these irregular-shaped cells has been determined in these investigations , and the anastomosis of their processes and their connexion with parts of a plexiform nervous tissue also .
These structures are in the midst of a mass of viscous protoplasm , Nervous System Actinia .
271 granules , and granular cells , which merge gradually into the close layers of granular cells under the Rotteken bodies , and they transgress here and there on those layers .
The fusiform cells are numerous ( PI .
II .
figs. 18-24 ) , and may be divided into two kinds :\#151 ; ( a ) Those with irregular shapes and short terminal processes , which are prolongations of the cell-wall and are rounded off .
These cells contain either highly retractile nuclei , or several nuclei with granular nucleoli .
The fusiform shape is not invariable , and in Plate II .
fig. 20 a large cell twice the diameter of a Rotteken body is seen amidst the granular plasm .
It has a tail-shaped prolongation and some highly retractile nuclei .
ft. Those which are rounder in outline , and whose projections are long and continuous with those of others .
The outlines of these cells are soft , and without definite and sharp margins , and the colour is a very pale blue-grey .
They contain one or more very distinct nuclei .
Our type , illustrated in Plate II .
fig. 21 , has its cells rather wider than a Rotteken body , and they are connected by a process with sharply defined wells\#151 ; the cell , with many nuclei , having a long caudal fibril of a pale grey colour and rather sharp marginal lines which had suffered disruption .
A second type has large spherical or elliptical cells , which do not have processes passing out in opposite directions , but they are restricted to one part .
Usually the cells have only one process , but sometimes two exist close together ( fig. 22 ) .
These cells are granular within and have very indistinct nuclei ; the cell-wall is extremely delicate , and the whole is of a pale grey colour .
The fibrils of these cells are particularly connected with the plexiform tissue .
In Plate II .
fig. 22 there is a cell with two fibrils\#151 ; one is short , for it dips down and is foreshortened , and the other is very long ; it bifurcates , and one end joins a rounded mass of the plexus , and the other the rugged fibrillar part .
In Plate II .
fig. 24 a cell with one fibril is shown .
The fibril swells slightly , and then passes down to join a transverse fibre belonging to the plexus .
The plexiform tissue is probably continuous around the Actinia beneath the chromatophores , for it is found between the circular band of muscular fibres and every chromatophore .
It consists of an irregular main structure and of lateral prolongations , which either anastomose with the fibrils from the fusiform and more spherical cells , or are directly continuous with the cells ( fig. 23 ) .
The main structure resembles , in its indistinctness of outline and its pale grey colour and indefinite marginal arrangement , the fibre of the sympathetic of mammals , but it is less coherent and smaller .
The usual appearance ( Plate II .
fig. 23 ) is that of a grey film with definite branches , and the whole has few granules here and there and a very few Prof. P. M. Duncan on the nuclei .
It is intimately associated with the surrounding cell-structures , but they may be separated by accident or compression .
Here and there the structure enlarges and a ganglion-like cell is seen ( Plate H. fig. 22 ) .
I have traced this structure almost across the whole field o\#163 ; the microscope in some sections .
It appears that this portion of the nervous system of Actinia ( namely , the fusiform and spherical cells with fibrils and the plexiform structure ) is distinct histologically from the fibrillar and cellular structures amidst the Haimean and Potteken bodies .
These structures are connective and developing ; but it must be remembered that it is possible for both series to come in contact in the midst of the layers of granular cells which underlie the Potteken bodies .
* IY , Examination into the Physiological Relation between the H tophores , the Nerves , and Light .
The question arises , Are these nerves of special sense ?
MM .
Schneider and Potteken answer that the small portion of the nervous arrangement they described , i. e. the fusiform bodies and their fibrils , are optic nerves ; They are satisfied with the physical arrangement of the bacilli , Haimean and Potteken bodies , and the nature of the colouring-matter imitating that of an organ of vision .
The discovery of the anastomosing fibrils and the plexiform arrangement favour this theory ; but there are reasons to be considered which throw much doubt on the views of the distinguished investigators .
All Actinia have not chromatophores , and closely allied genera may or may not have them .
Thus , amongst the Actinia with smooth tentacles , there is a group with non-retractile and another with retractile tentacles : amongst those with non-retractile arms are the genera Anevnonia and Eumenides without chromatophores , and Comactis and Ceratactis with them ; amongst the Actinia with retractile tentacles are Actinia with , and Paractis without , chromatophores .
Amongst the tubercular division , the genus Phymactis has chromatophores , but its close ally Cereus has them not .
^ _ i Whatever may be the value of this classification of the Actinia , it is quite evident that to group together those with and without ehromato-phores in separate divisions would be the reverse of producing a natural arrangement .
It is therefore difficult to believe that these ornaments , with something resembling an optical arrangement , can be the seat of special sensation .
MM .
Potteken and Schneider have observed the large retractile Haimean bodies in the tentacles , and , as will be noticed further on , I have found them of enormous size in the peristome .
They are surrounded in those places , but not covered , with pigmen cells and granules , and are situated just beneath the nematocyst layer m Nervous System Actinia .
273 the tentacle , and beneath a corresponding layer , or one of bacilli , in the peristome .
I have failed to recognize any nervous elements in the tentacles save the fusiform bodies , and there are none in the peristome except these irregular cells .
Again , the Haimean bodies are found in the chromatophores , in some places , amidst the Rbtteken bodies , separating them .
Nevertheless it is true that light falling on the surface of an Actinia will reach further into its structures where there are Haimean bodies , and further still if the Rotteken cells underlie them .
Where there is no pigment intervening between the bodies when placed side by side , or between the Rotteken cells , a diffused glare of light would impinge on the granulo-cellular layer below them , in which the nerves ramify and the nerve-cells exist .
But when the pigment-granules and cells exist , they break up the general illumination and confine it to a series of separate bright rays .
Each of them is brighter than the corresponding space of diffused light ; and it would appear that the bacilli , the Haimean bodies , and the Rotteken cells in combination , concentrate light .
Two or three bacilli are placed side by side and behind each other over a small Haimean retractile spherical cell , and perhaps twenty or more cover a large cell ( PI .
II .
fig. 15 ) .
Usually a Haimean body is placed immediately over a Rbtteken body ; but , as Rotteken has pointed out , this is not an invariable arrangement , for some cover the spaces between and over them .
The refractibility of the fluid contents of the Haimean bodies and Rbtteken cells appears to be the same ; but the elongated form of the last-mentioned structures may act upon light as if their internal fluid were more viscid .
In every instance there is a more or less opaque tissue between the proximal end of the Rbtteken body and the nerve-cells ; and , moreover , the delicate protoplasmic layer , which is slightly impervious to light , surrounds the Haimean bodies .
In my opinion the Haimean bodies , wherever they exist , carry light more deeply into the tissues than the ordinary epithelial structures .
This is also the case with the bacilli and Rbtteken bodies , even when they exist separately and with or without the Haimean bodies .
There are three ordinary constituents of the skin , and through their individual gifts and structural peculiarity they place the Actinia in relation with light .
When they are brought together in this primitive form of eye , they concentrate and convey light with greater power , so as to enable it to act more generally on the nervous system\#151 ; probably not to enable the distinction of objects , but to cause the light to stimulate a rudimentary nervous system to act in a reflex manner on the muscular system , which is highly developed .
The Actinia , therefore , may feel the light by means of the transparent histological elements when they are separate and constitute integral portions of the ectoderm ; but this sensation will be in- Prof. P. M. Duncan on the tensified when the three kinds of cells are placed in such order as has been observed in the chromatophores .
The evolution of an eye , which can distinguish outlines , shadows , and colours , probably took the path which is thus faintly indicated in the Actinia , which doubtless haS an appreciation of the difference between light and darkness .
V. On the Nerves of the base of Actinia mesembryanthemum .
A large specimen of a pale green variety from the Mediterranean was examined .
The base being free and expanded , a rapid incision cut out a triangular piece comprehending the ectothelium , the muscular layers , and the mucous endothelium .
The apex of the triangle reached the centre of the base of the Actinia , and the base of the triangle , which was covered , corresponded with the basal margin of the animal .
Sections were made parallel with the original aspect of the base of the Actinia , and then some others at right angles .
The histological elements were studied separately and compared , so that the following tissues could be distinguished readily:\#151 ; 1 .
A fibrous-looking tissue like ordinary white fibrous tissue with dark nuclei , to which the muscular fibres are attached and from which they originate .
2 .
A dense layer of muscular fibres , or rather fibrils , which originates at right angles to the fibre of the fibrous tissue .
Each fibril is retractile and nucleated .
Each is separate from its neighbours , and lies in the midst of granules and small cells which contain granules , all being highly retractile .
In some places the fibrils are gathered together in masses , so as to leave areolae between them .
3 .
Earge muscular fibres in contact laterally , so as to form a thin layer .
Each fibre is long , broad , has several pale elongate nuclei and a distinct lateral dark line .
There are no striae .
4 .
The elements of the endothelium and ectothelium , which , as they do not bear on the immediate subject , will be described in a future memoir .
The object of the investigation being to discover some trace of a nervous system , which was presupposed to resemble somewhat the traces observed below the chromatophores , the necessity of becoming familiar with the fibrous and muscular tissues , so as to decide what was not muscle and fibre , is apparent .
' I have not found any isolated fusiform cells amongst the tissues of the base ; but under the endothelium , and also between the layers of muscular fibres , there are structures which I feel disposed to believe must belong to the nervous system .
1 .
They are in the position of nerves .
2 .
Tkeir structure is not that of muscle or fibre .
3 .
Their structure resem es , in some instances , the plexiform tissues beneath the chromatophores .
Nervous System Actinia .
275 The nervous structures are found to present three characteristic shapes:\#151 ; 1 .
A thin layer of muscular fibrils of the small and separate ( see 2 above ) kind , with well-defined dark nuclei in them , was examined .
The whole was very transparent and well defined under the ytj-inch objective .
Underlying this layer , and extending on either side beyond it , so as to appear in one of the meshes between groups of these fibrils , was a ramified pale grey tissue , which was less pervious to light than the muscular fibrils ( PI .
Ill , fig. 25 ) .
Swollen in one part and faintly granular throughout , it had its margins very faintly visible .
It was flat , and had a definite resemblance to the widest portion of the plexus already mentioned .
2 .
A large section of muscular tissue was examined .
It consisted of one layer of large muscular fibres ( see 3 above ) in close lateral contact .
Punning obliquely over the layer was an irregular but continuous cord ramifying here and there , the branches breaking up into fibrils .
In one part the cord was swollen ( PI .
III .
figs. 26 \amp ; 27 ) .
A second ramification passed from the opposite end of the field of the microscope and broke up into ultimate fibrils , and in this structure there was a fusiform cell .
Careful manipulation separated a portion of the upper cord from the muscular fibres , but a part of it evidently dropped down amongst them .
3 .
A layer of muscular fibres of the same kind as those just mentioned v. as examined .
It was marked , as usual , with the lateral dark lines and pale elongated nuclei .
Three long and irregular fibres passed more or less obliquely over the muscular tissue ( PL III .
figs. 28-30 ) .
They had distinct lateral or marginal lines , were swollen out in several places , and their texture was faintly granular .
I believe that these fibres were continuous with the fine ramifications oi the plexiform arrangement just described .
4 .
Above the muscular layers , and under the folds of the endothelium , I found an inosculating series of ramifications arising from a common cord .
It was situated upon the layer of muscular tissue , with small and separate long fibrils .
The structure was faintly granular , pale grey in colour , with faint outlines , and was swollen in some places : it covered a considerable portion of the field of the microscope ; and portions of it had a close resemblance to the ramifying structure mentioned as having been observed below the muscular layer ( PI .
III .
fig. 31 ) .
The multiplication , if it be justifiable , of these structural elements in the other segments of the base which were not examined would give a fair notion of the plexiform arrangement of the basal nervous tissue .
I presume that it consists of a reticulate structure beneath the endothelium , which sends large branches between the vacuities of the most delicate VOL. XXII .
v 276 Prof. P. M. Duncan on the Nervous System of Actinia .
muscular layer , and which communicates with a ramifying tissue in contact with the other muscular layers , and that this ends in long fibres which supply the wide fibres of this last-mentioned layer .
The diffused nature of this nervous tissue is what might be anticipated would be found in animals possessing such general irritability of tissue , and probably its function is to assist in the reflex movements of the animal , and to produce expansion of the disk on the stimulus of light .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
Plate II .
Fig. 1 , which is an outline of a chromatophore , with two small ones close to it , is magnified 10 diameters ; all the rest are drawn from nature under the magnifying-power of a -J^-inch immersion lens and a medium eyepiece .
Fig. 2 .
Bacilli .
' ' Fig. 3 .
Granular and cellular protoplasm between bacilli .
Fig. 4 .
Large refractile cells .
Haimean bodies .
Fig. 5 .
Type a of a Rotteken body .
Fig. 6 .
" / 3 " .
" " Fig. 7 .
" y .
" " '\#187 ; fith a thread .
Fig. 8 .
Granular and cellular tissue between the Haimean bodies .
Fig. 9 .
Same kind of tissue in contact with a Rotteken body .
-Fig , 10 .
Some cells with refractile nuclei in the tissue .
Fig. 11 .
Portion of tissue from amongst the Rotteken bodies .
Fig. 14 .
The same , with a forked end .
Fig. 12 .
Three portions of intermediate tissue ending in the layer of granular cells which underlies the Rotteken bodies .
Fig. 13 .
Haimean and Rotteken bodies and the intermediate tissue in position .
Fig. 15 .
A diagram , but very close to nature , of the relative position of the histological elements of the chromatophores .
Fig. 16 .
Haimean and Kotteken bodies intermingled .
Fig. 17 .
Haimean bodies surrounded by pigment-cells , and with bacilli flat upon them , owing to pressure .
Figs. 18 \amp ; 19 .
Fusiform nerve-cells .
Fig. 20 .
A nerve-cell .
Fig. 21 .
Nerve-cells connected and with fibres .
Fig. 22 .
A spherical nerve-cell with processes joining the plexus .
Fig. 23 .
Ramifications of the plexiform cord .
Fig. 24 .
Nerve-cell and fibres .
Plate III .
Fig. 25 .
Nerve in relation to the small muscular fibrils of the base .
Fig. 26 .
Nerve ramifying and supplying wide muscular fibre .
Fig. 27 .
A loop of nervous fibre .
Fig. 28 .
Terminal ends of the plexus passing over muscular fibre .
Figs. 29 \amp ; 30 .
The same , more highly magnified .
Fig. 31 .
The plexus under the endothelium .
Dwnccun .
Proc. Roy .
Soa .
VolJXH .
P M.D. oud/ .nat ' .
del .
W.K Wesley Uth .
Wmesb\amp ; C* imp .
Duncan Proc. Roy .
Soc. VolXXIT \#166 ; P-M.D .
cuL , ruxt cLeL .
W^E.Wesley Jith .
W. West\amp ; C ?
imp .

