" On some new Compounds of Phenyl .
" By A. WILLIAMSON , Ph. D. , F.C.S. , Professor of Practical Chemistry in University College .
Communicated by Dr. SHIARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received March 15 , 1854 .
This communication contains a notice of some of the results obtained in an investigation of Carbolic Acid or Hydrated Oxide of Phenyl , conducted , under the author 's superintendence , by Mr. Scrugham in the Analytical Laboratory of University College .
Referring to the substitution products obtained by Laurent from hydrate of phenyl by the action of chlorine and bromine , as well as to its combination with acids prepared by that chemist in conjunction with Gerhardt , the author states that the substance which they conceived to be chloride of phenyl has been found by Mr. Scrugham to be a mixture of two compounds .
As regards the preparation of hydrate of phenyl from the creosote of coal-tar , it is observed that the numerous fractional distillations by which it is usually isolated may be abridged by crystallization ; for if creosote , having the boiling-point between 186 ?
and 188 ?
Cent. , be left for some time in contact with a few crystals of the pure hydrate , it deposits a considerable quantity of beautiful colourless needles , which , when separated from the mother-liquid , distil at 184 ?
Cent. , and condense in the neck of the retort into a solid mass of pure hydrate of phenyl .
When pentachloride of phosphorus is added to hydrate of phenyl , the action is at first very energetic , hydrochloric acid being evolved , and the mixture becoming hot ; but after a time the addition of fresh portions of pentachloride produces no perceptible action , unless the mixture be heated .
Oxychloride of phosphorus is formed , as well as a neutral oily body , which is insoluble in aqueous potash at the common temperature , but soluble with decomposition in boiling potash .
This oily compound would , from its mode of formation , be naturally supposed to be the chloride of phenyl , and it has been so considered by some distinguished chemists .
It may , however , be separated by distillation into two perfectly definite and distinct bodies , one of which boils at 136 ?
Cent. , the other at a temperature above the range of mercurial thermometers .
The former of these is a colourless mobile liquid , possessing a fragrant smell , not unlike that of bitter almonds .
The latter is a more consistent inodorous liquid , which solidifies at a low temperature into a mass of colourless crystals .
The liquid having the boiling-point of 136 ?
is nothing else than the chloride ofphenyl .
The crystalline body is the phosphate of phenyl , one of the most beautiful products in organic chemistry .
In the liquid state it is slightly yellow by transmitted light , and it reflects the more refrangible rays with a fine opalescent appearance , due no doubt to the so-called epipolic refraction .
The epipolic rays visible by ordinary daylight on and at some depth below its surface , are of a fine violet tint , differing decidedly from the blue colour exhibited by disulphate of quinine in like circumstances .
The flame of sulphur does not bring out this effect more strongly than the diffused light of the sun .
Phosphate of phenyl dissolves in strong nitric acid with evolution of considerable heat , and the solution gives out nitrous fumes on ebullition .
A heavy yellow oil is precipitated by water from this solution , and collects in drops which ultimately solidify , and their solidification is , singularly enough , accelerated by hot water , by reason of its more quickly dissolving out the nitric acid which at first holds the solid body in solution .
Nitrophosphate of phenyl is an acid , and forms with potash a beautiful crystalline salt .
An alcoholic solution of phosphate of phenyl decomposes acetate of potash on ebullition .
After the alcohol is distilled off , the temperature of the mixture rises rapidly on the application of further heat , and a limpid oleaginous substance , having a very peculiar odour , distils over , which possesses the composition of acetate of phenyl .
This compound boils at 190 ?
Cent. ; it is heavier than water , and very slightly soluble in that liquid .
It dissolves with decomposition in boiling potash .
Cyanide of p1henyl is obtained by the action of the phosphate on cyanide of potassium .
It is decomposed by boiling potash with evolution of ammonia .
Terchloride of phosphorus , when distilled with hydrate of phenyl , seems to act at first similarly to the pentachloride , but the phosphite of phenyl formed is decomposed by heat ; and among the products of distillation is found a body boiling at 80 ?
Cent. , and possessing all the properties of benzin , i. e. hydruret of phenyl .
The formation of the iodide of phenyl is necessarily attended with some difficulty , owing to the circumstance of phosphorus not combining with more than three equivalents of iodine .
Its boilingpoint is 190 ?
Cent. Mr. Scrugham has had reason to confirm the statements of Laurent and Gerhardt respecting the benzoate of phenyl , and has prepared that compound in considerable quantities by the action of chloride of benzoyle on phenylate of potash .
Chloride and phosphate of phenyl could not be made to react on benzoate of potash .
Chloride of cuminvl reacts with violence on phenylate of potash , with formation of cumninate of phenyl , a compound analogous to the benzoate .
Chloride of phenyl was heated with phenylate of sodium , with a view to the formation of oxide of phenyl , and there is no doubt that this compound was formed by the reaction , as the correlative product , chloride of sodium , was detected .
But a further account of this and other reactions is deferred until the experimental investigation is more advanced .
Specimens of most of the compounds mentioned were exhibited .

