52 Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 27 , and when consequently R A* a = , o \#151 ; V \#151 ; Vq wh we hare e = pv " , and ( IV 0 = r + Rlog ( v - % ) , TR3 ' C"TR+\#165 ; ( d-i ; 0 ) 3r~"-1 * It would be most important if by some method , Koenig 's for instance , or by inserting a small microphone into a tube , the velocity of sound in substances in various states could be accurately determined , as that would enable us to determine C and c separately .
IIr .
" On the Morphology of Birds .
" By Professor W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) Introductory Remarks .
During the time that the special study of the development of the slcull has occupied my attention , the rest of the skeleton has been neglected ; it has , however , had its cultivators in no small number .
In a limited degree the skeleton has been worked out by me ; \#151 ; for instance , the shoulder-girdle and sternum in the Yertebrata generally ; in birds , the whole skeleton did at one time\#151 ; a quarter of a century ago\#151 ; take up much of my thought .
The development of the skeleton , generally in this Class , is a subject of great interest , and I am anxious to catch up all the scattered results that lie before me , of the excellent but extremely limited labours of other biologists .
I did begin the study of the development of the limbs , sternum , pelvis , and spine , in 1842 , and some of the results will be brought forward in the present paper .
This will be , I trust , but the first-fruits of my most recent work ; for , during the long years that have elapsed since this research was fairly begun , I have lost no opportunity of laying up m store embryos and young of birds of many kinds .
These stores , if well worked out , will yield a series of papers like the one now offered to the Society.* * Although I have for many years past kept a register of the presents of 1887 .
] On the Morphology of .
The bibliography of my published papers on the Osteology of the Thorax partly , and of the Skull largely , is given in the general Bibliographical List .
It has been necessary to do this , as every scrap and part of the older work is wanted , now that an attempt is made to build the old and the new into something like a structure having form and fulness .
There are several things that go to increase the interest in the morphology of these culminating Sauropsida at the present time .
First.\#151 ; The discovery by Gegenbaur , Huxley , and others , of the close relationship of birds and reptiles , especially of the extraordinary fact that the hind limb and pelvis of even the most minute bird pass through a stage in which they correspond almost exactly with the hind limb and pelvis of the most gigantic kinds of extinct reptiles\#151 ; the Dinosaurs or Omithoscelida .
Secondly.\#151 ; The recent discoveries of biologists as to the composition of the Cheiropterygium in the various types of air-breathing Verte-brata .
It is now well known that the five-fingered hand and the foot with five toes are the specialised modern representatives of hands and feet that had at least seven rays in their composition .
And , thirdly\#151 ; the study of the development and general morphology of birds is , at the present time , of great interest , -\#151 ; now that we are looking to the study of metamorphosis for some initial elucidation of the mystery as to the origin of the various types of Vertebrata .
The labour of each succeeding day at this culminating Class makes it more and more impossible for me to conceive of birds as arising direct from the Dinosaurians , or indeed from any other order or group of reptiles .
Long attention to the metamorphosis of the Amphibia has intensified .
this difficulty to me .
for the newly-transformed frog or newt appears to me to be the true counterpart of a newly-hatched reptile\#151 ; snake , lizard , turtle , or crocodile .
Each of these young creatures , whether it has undergone a true metamorphosis , or has been the subject of pre-natal , is evidently an imago ; although an imago that continues to grow .
, Now each amphibian has its own , for the larvae of the various species have their specific differences .
The thousand known species of existing Amphibia\#151 ; Anurans , Urodeles , and Ccecilians\#151 ; and all the fishes that undergo metamorphosis , are as truly , if not as remarkably , distinct from each other in .
their larval as in their imago form ; \#151 ; as much so as is the case in insects , or any other of those invertebrate types that are truly meta-morphic .
materials for this and other parts of my work , I cannot reproduce it here ; but must use this opportunity of thanking a host of kind friends for gifts which , in abundance and variety , are somewhat embarrassing .
54 Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 27 , ' If many of the existing Vertebrata are metamorphic now , is it not very probable that they were all metamorphic once ?
The fact that we have , even now , snch forms as the larval lamprey ( or Ammoecete ) , the larvae of Ganoids and Dipnoi , and the tadpoles of newts and frogs , suggests to me the possibility of the existence of huge swarms of low Proto-Yertebrata in the early ages of the inhabited planet .
If snch proto-Vertebrate forms existed , then it is quite snpposable that a metamorphosis may , from time to time , have taken place , of this and that quasi-larval form into archaic reptile , ancestral bird , or primitive mammal .
I am not afraid that anyone familiar with the development , structure , and habits of the existing Amphibia will see any difficulty in the passage of a metamorphic into a so-called non-metamorphic type , during time , and under the pressure of new outward conditions , \#151 ; when the dilemma offered to the supposed low vertebrate was Transform or perish .
To me it seems that the creature 's necessity was Nature 's opportunity ; and that , during long ages , the morphological force had accumulated in those low forms an enormous surplusage of unused energy which , in the ripeness of time , blossomed out into this and that new and noble type .
Of all the types of Vertebrata , there is none like the bird of high degree for illustrating what Professor Huxley calls " the threefold law of evolution , " * namely , overgrowth of some parts , starvation and even death of others , and fusion of parts originally distinct .
No kind of vertebrate whatever presents to the osteologist so hopeless an enigma in the adult skeleton as that of the bird ; in the overgrowth of certain parts , the abortion or suppresion of others , and the extensive fusion of large tracts of skeletal elements .
Hence this Class has largely acted upon the morphological mind ; the " Comparative Anatomist " has , of necessity , undergone evolution into the " Morphologist , " and the latter has had to be refined and developed into the " Embryologist .
" In the bird class we meet with this remarkable phenomenon , namely , that the swiftest creatures by far that inhabit the earth have had , for the purposes of their most consummate mechanism , the greatest loss of freedom of the individual parts of the skeletal framework .
Between the pigeon , on one hand , above , and the emeu , on the other , below , there are several families of related birds ; but there is no direct superposition , \#151 ; they are obliquely above or below each other .
* See his paper " On the Application of the Laws of Evolution to the Arrangement of the Yertebrata , and more especially of the Mammalia " ( ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , * December 14 , 1884 , pp. 649-662 ) .
1887 .
] On the Morphology of Birds .
Amongst the Carinatse , -which lie in the intermediate space , there is none better for the purposes of study than the common fowl ; to this type I have devoted most attention , and have now worked out the limbs in as many stages as I formerly did the skull .
I can now give an account of the vertebral column with the ribs and sternum , the limb-girdles and limbs , from the end of the seventh day of incubation ; by which time the hyaline cartilage is perfect , and Certain even of the bony tracts are begun .
The fowl is an intermediate form between the emeu and the pigeon ; but most akin to the latter .
I shall now confine myself to what is seen in the development of the skeleton ( excluding the skull ) in this medium type .
The vertebral column , at the end of a week 's incubation , is formed of hyaline cartilage ; up to the end of the true sacrals , the notochord is completely invested with cartilage ; but , behind those four segments , only at the sides .
The notochord has its constrictions in the middle of each centrum , and is most dilated at the intercentra .
The neural arches do not nearly meet above ; the atlas is in four pieces\#151 ; a superficial and an inner piece to the centrum , and a pair of arch-rudiments ; the inner segment of the centrum becomes the odontoid process of the axis .
Between the axis and the first true sacral , all the vertebrae have separate ribs ; in the cervical region , except near the dorsal region , there are small styloid cartilages lying horizontally , which have their head , or thick end , wedged in between the upper and lower transverse processes .
Near the dorsals they are transversely placed , and then begin to develop a descending process .
The first vertebra of this stage with complete ribs becomes , by absorption of the lower part of the arch , the last cervical in the adult .
Behind the twenty pre-sacrals there are fifteen sacrals , and this series has its subdivisions .
The first develops ribs ( it is dorso-sacral ) , the next three develop minute but distinct ribs , like those near the lower part of the neck ; these are lumbo-sacral .
Then come the four sacrals with no ribs , and then the seven uro-sacrals , the first two of which have rib-bars that ossify separately , below the upper transverse processes , which latter form a complete series from the third cervical to the last free caudal segment .
Of those there are five ; then come five more paired imperfect rudiments , clinging to the terminal part of the notochord .
At the end of the 8th day there are six of these , with the last elongated , and the notochord projecting behind far enough for three or four more rudiments .
At the end of the 10th day the vertebral chain has undergone a great 5(3 Prof. W. K. Parker .
[ Jan. 27 , change .
The atlas is still composed of four distinct pieces of cartilages , hut the ribs have become fused above and below with the transverse processes , and the notochord is now most constricted at the intercentra .
Besides this , in the pre-sacrals , it is constricted in two places within each centrum ; so that each centrum in the modern bird corresponds to three subdivisions of this axial chord .
# For two or three days there is evidence of an archaic subdivision of the notochord into three times as many vertebral divisions as are made now in the modern bird .
In the sacral the constrictions are fewer ; they are only at the intercentra , and in the middle of the centrum .
The only absolutely necessary part of the sternum is that where the sternal ribs are attached ; that is a very small part , and the rest is for the attachment of the huge muscles that act upon the wings , and for the obliqui and recti abdominis .
The limb-girdles are each in three pairs of distinct cartilages .
In front , the scapula , the minute pre-coracoid , the coracoid ; behind the ilium , pubis and ischium ; the pre-pubis is fart of the ilium , and that has two regions , the pre-ilium and the post-ilium .
These parts in the bird are not continuous tracts of cartilages , ossified by several centres , but are distinct , first as cartilages , then as bony tracts ; those of the shoulder keep distinct ; those of the hip soon coalesce .
The wings at the end of the 7th day are three-toed webbed paws , with all the digits turned inwards .
The rods that compose the main part of it are composed of solid cartilage ; the humerus , radius , ulna , and 1st and 2nd metacarpals have a bony sheath round their middle part ; the ends of the digits and the carpals are but partly chondrified .
Five carpal nuclei , however , can be made out , and the two proximal nuclei are known to be further subdivided , each into two , in other types ; hence we can already account for seven carpals in the bird , which has only two in the adult , in a free state .
Moreover , the 1st digit has two , and the 2nd three phalanges , the normal number , as in lizards ; the 3rd , which should have four , but in birds has as a rule only one , has now two , as in the ostrich , and a few other birds ; there is no sign at the end of the 7th or even of the 8th day of incubation of any more than three digits , but we have in the wrist an intermedio-radiale , a centralo-ulnare , and three distal carpals , answering to the three developed metacarpals .
The digits up to the end of the 8th day are rounded and flattish , and are quite like those of a young newt or frog .
But in two days more , at the end of the 10th day , the wing has almost acquired the adult form ; and one more bony centre , that of the 1st metacarpal , has appeared .
The overgrowth of the 2nd distal carpal and the 2nd metacarpal , On the Morphology of Birds .
1887 .
] with its large and dilated digit , has arrested the distal carpal of the 1 st or short digit , the " pollex .
" This is the last nucleus to chondrify .
It is still a very small , limpet-like disk of cartilage , and is now only to be seen on the flexor face of the manus , inside the top o\#163 ; the 2nd metacarpal ; the distal carpal of the 3rd ray is also small as compared with the large crescentic 2nd distal nucleus .
It is thrown on to the ulnar or outer side of the manus , by the overgrowth of the middle rod and its carpal .
The curve of the digits at their end is now , not inwards , or to the radial side , but outwards ; and the two developed distal segments form now the core of two claws , that of the first , or pollex , being of considerable length .
Thus , by the end of the 10th day , the reptilian type of fore-foot has been attained , and the amphibian type lost ; whilst the limb as a whole is now a fore-leg no longer , but a wing , thoroughly specialised by evolutional transformation .
The fore-limb has not simply become modified into a wing by the shortening of the pollex and 3rd ray , the enlargement of the 2nd , and the abortion of the 4th and 5th of a fore-paw , like that of the lizard ; but we have now the historical representatives of three more rays which have cropped up since the end of the 8th day .
I have repeatedly noticed that aborted parts , like overshadowed plants , are late to appear , and soon wither , or are arrested in their growth .
This is the case here , for the new rays are late , small , and scarcely functional in the fullest development .
They are not lost , however , but , like certain larval structures to be found in the skulls of the highest types of birds , they are built up into the finished wing , although they form an unimportant part of it as far as function goes .
The first of these additional rays is the " pre-pollexthis is *a lunate tract of fibro-cartilage attached to the inner face of the 1st metacarpal .
The other two are composed of true hyaline cartilage , and appear , one on the ulnar side of the 2nd , and the other on the ulnar side of the 3rd developed metacarpal .
I have described them as intercalary metacarpals , for they seem to be the starved twins of the 2nd and 3rd large rays : each distal carpal , very probably , in the archaic forms carried two rays .
Thus there is supposed , for such a fore-limb , a digit inside the pollex of the modern bird , and then two pairs of rays , of which only the inner in each case has been retained .
The paddle of Ichthyosaurus shows this kind of primitive cheiroptery-gium , admirably .
Thus we can account for seven carpals and six digits in the wing of the modern bird ; in the legs the specialisation is not so intense , but is very great ; the study of the embryonic stages shows in it many parts that the adult bird gives no signs of whatever .
Instead of there being even two tarsals , free and functional , there is On the Morphology of * [ Jan. 27 , only one , and that has merely the function of a " sesamoid , " and has been mistaken continually for a bone of that sort ; that nucleus answers to our naviculare , morphologically termed the " centrale .
" Notwithstanding the extreme diversity in the habits of existing birds , and the great difference seen in their shank bone , this part is always single , although composed of three metatarsals .
As in reptiles , the joint at this part is not between the astragalus and tibia , as in mammals , but through the tarsal series ; no sign of this structure is seen in the adult bird .
That which appears to be the condyloid end of the tibia is a row of tarsal bones , the tibiale , fibulare , and intermedium ; these have long been known as separate bones in young birds , but their distinctness in the early embryo as cartilaginous nuclei has only lately been made out .
I have been able , however , to demonstrate this repeatedly in different kinds of buds .
The centrale also , although seen m the embryo as one of the tarsal series , was not properly identified ; it is a constant element , but becomes degraded .
The distal series of tarsals exists as a single tract of cartilage , and then as a single plate of bone .
But it is related to three metatarsals , and the middle or thick part is the first to chondrify in the embryo , and to ossify in the chicken or young bird ; there are here three connate nuclei , with very slight signs of distinctness .
The whole mass answers to our middle and external " cuneiform bones , " and to the inner half of the " os magnum .
" Thus five tarsals can be always made out clearly , and two more accounted for .
The 1st metatarsal , which has been known , for some time , through the valuable researches of Morse , to have occasionally a proximal as vfrell as a distal rudiment , has , I find , always a proximal rudiment as well .
Then , as Dr. G. Baur and Miss A. Johnson have shown , there is a 5th metatarsal ; it is a small pisiform cartilage , which soon coalesces with the 4th , and with the great distal tarsal .
I can only find a " pre-hallux " by turning to Teratology , and this is not the lawful method .
There may , however , be some " reversion " or " atavism " in the polydactyle foot of the Dorking fowl , which has a well developed " pre-hallux " and a double " hallux ; " the twin digits of that part have a very ichthyosaurian appearance .

