On a saline Substance from Mount Vesuvius .
By James Smithson , Esq. F.R.S. Read July 8 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 256 .
] From the strong evidence we have that a very large proportion of the world , as we now see it , has at some period been either in a state of actual combustion , or has felt the effects of heat , a high interest , says the author , attaches itself to volcanoes and their ejections , as partial instances of similar operations now going on .
In support of the igneous origin of primitive strata , it is observed , not only that no crystal imbedded in them contains water , but that none of the materials of the strata contain water in any state .
The subject of the present experiments was thrown out in a liquid state from the cone of Vesuvius about the year 1792 or 1793 .
It was of a dirty white colour , with streaks of yellow and green .
When heated , it fused without any loss of weight .
When fused on charcoal , it was converted into sulphuret of potash .
In water it dissolved readily , leaving particles of specular iron and oxide of copper .
Muriate of platina caused a copious precipitate from the solution , from the presence of potash .
Nitrate of barytes afforded an abundant precipitate of sulphate of barytes .
Sulphate of silver gave a curd-like precipitate , showing the presence of muriatic acid .
Prussiate of soda gave a red precipitate , consisting of prussiate of copper .
Carbonate , or oxalate of soda or potash , occasioned no precipitation of any kind of earth ; nor did any means employed detect the presence of boracic , or of any other acid , excepting the sulphuric and muriatic .
4L75 By a suitable course of experiment , the proportions of the several salts present were found to be nearly thus : Sulphate of potash ... ... ... 71 Sulphate of soda ... ... ... ... ... . .
19 Muriate of soda ... ... ... ... 5 the remainder consisting of a little muriate of ammonia , mixed with the muriates of iron and copper .
In the part which remained undissolved by water , there was also found to be submuriate of copper , similar in composition to the green sand of Peru , and a yellow powder that was judged to be submuriate of iron ; so that , on the whole , this single mass presented as many as nine different species of matter .

