XXVIII .
On the discordances between the Sun 's observed and computedRight Ascensions , as determined at the Blackman-street Observatory , in the years 1821 and 1822 -with Experiments to show that they did not originate in instrumental derangement .
Also a description of the seven-feet Transit with which the observations were procured , and upon which the experiments were made .
By JAMES SOUTH , Esq. F. R. S. Communicated June 1 , 1826 .
Read June 8 , 1826 .
IN presenting to the Royal Society the following pages , 1 am well aware that some apology is necessary ; the subject however to which they refer being intimately connected with the-progress of astronomy , I am induced to hope that the Society will still receive with indulgence , what would long since have been communicated to them , had other astronomical pursuits allowed me the opportunity .
That the sun 's right ascension , found by observation , frequently disagrees with that afforded by calculation , astrono.imers I believe now generally admit ; an opinion however has been as generally entertained , that the discordances were the results of instrumental inaccuracy , occasioned by the effects of the solar rays upon certain parts of the ' instrument ; hence observations of the sun have fallen into disrepute , whenever an accurate knowledge of the time is the object of research .
As .
, however , there is nothing which more impedes the advancement of science , than opinions too hastily adopted , it may be worth while to inquire whether practical astronomy really merits the above reproach ; the investigation will be tedious , but I trust it will be satisfactory .
The transit instrument employed for the purpose was made for me by Mr. TROUGHTON ; its object-glass is four inches in clear aperture , its focal length seven feet two inches ; and as far as the just proportions of its parts are concerned , it is regarded by him , as his happiest production .
Experience having also shown that it is one which future artists will do well to imitate , a brief description of it will perhaps be grateful to the Society .
The instrument in its general construction is similar to that of the ten feet transit , which was in the year i8i.6 erected at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich ; there are however some trifling differences , which will be mentioned hereafter .
In Plates XVI .
and XVII .
figures i and 6 , the instrument is shown on a scale of one-twelfth of the real dimensions .
The telescope ( as well as the axis ) , is formed of conical tubes , the extreme ends of which are determined by the diameter of the object-glass , whilst the larger ends take their dimensions from that of the spherical centre piece , which forms a base for them to rest on .
In the two figures just referred to , the centre piece has nearly four-sixths of its surface covered by the four truncated cones of the axis and telescope ; but it is not rendered weak by the perforations made in it , those in the direction of the telescope being but a little more than the radius of the object-glass , whilst those in the direction of the axis are no larger than is required to transmit the light of a lamp placed near the end of the axis , uninterruptedly to the central illuminator .
The figures i and 6 of'Plates XVI .
and XVII .
do not at all show how the four principal parts of the instrument are united to the sphere , but figures 8 and 9 of Plate XVIII .
will illustrate a description of what is hitherto peculiar to the Greenwich transit instrument and mine .
The ends of all the four cones , where they join the sphere , are strengthened by circular pieces of cast brass ; these pieces extend full three hiches into the lengths of their respective cones , into which they are soldered and pinned ; they are turned concave in front , so as to fit the surface of the sphere , into which they are rabbeted , and serve to keep the opposite branches of the axis and telescope straight , and at right angles with each other .
To these brass pieces are attached broad and strong rings , for the reception of the screws which bind the whole together .
The four branches of the axis and telescope are solely united , by what Mr. TROUGHTON calls , tension bars ; these bars pass through the sphere , six of them in the direction of the axis , and four in that of the telescope .
They are arranged at equal distances between corresponding parts , care being taken that those of the axis do not obstruct the rays of the object-glass , and that the illuminator is not shadowed by those of the telescope .
The tension bars screw into the rings of the brass pieces above described ; they have at one end a fine screw , and at the other a coarse one ; the fine one is made about twice as long as under other circumstances would be required : and there are holes in the sphere at proper distances , through which the bars can pass freely .
To connect these various parts , let the fine screw ends of the six bars of the axis be screwed into their proper rings as far as they will go ; then pass the bars through the holes in the sphere , and pressing the cone home upon the rabbit retain it there now address .
the other cone , to the 'coarse screw ends of the bars , and by turning these in the direction of unscrewing , they will screw into their rings , and bring up the other cone to its bearing , , with a power .
equal to the dif1erence of the , ranges of the two screws .
The tubes of the telescope are united to the .
sphere and to each other in the same manner ; but to perform this operation , it is necessary to pass the hand -into the sphere , for which purpose there aretwo apertures with moveable caps left in the middle of its two uncovered parts : the tension bars are acted on by a capstan pin , small holes Bhaving been drilled in the bars to receive it .
The above caps are covered with platina ; on one of them is engraved an inscription , and on the other the maker 's name .
By the above mode of joining the principal parts , the bars may be stretched , and the sphere* even compressed to any extent short of that which would occasion a permanent alteration in the length of the former , or in the figure of the latter ; athing which Mr. TROUGHTON considers would perhaps not take place with a force equal to a ton of weight .
How much such a connection must be better than any that could be effected by binding together the exterior parts , to use the emphatic language of our illustrious artist " every one who is gifted with mechanical intellect will readily determine .
" Plate XVIII .
fig. 8 , is a section through the axis , and exhibits the six bars which bind together , the cones of the axis , and also the places of the four , which are perpendicular to them , and which connect the tubes of the telescope .
In Plate XVIII.fig .
9 , which is a section through the telescope , ' That every part of the sphere , should possess a power of resistance , as uniform as possible , extreme precaution was employedin turning its interior surface , so as to render it concentric with the exterior .
the bars of the telescope are shown lengthwise , whilst those of the -axis are perpendicular ; in both figures the illuminator is shown , in one the polished -surface , the back of the plate in the other- ; in each it is seen .
under an angle of 4,50 the elliptical perforationappearing as a circle .
The removal of the inscription pieces having afforded the draftso man but -a limited view of the interior of the sphere , the parts are , not represented with precision ; -but nevertheless may serve well enough to elucidate the preceding description .
In Plate XVII fig. 6 , extending from the ; cones of the ; axis to those of the telescope , will be seen four tubes or braces , attached to the former about twoinches from the pivQts , and to the latter about ten inches from the centre piece ; these are , so placed as to exert but a very -slight pressure , and although deemed by Mr. TROUGHTON essential in the Greenwich instrument , were considered unnecessary in mine , : and -for the diminution of expense , would have been omitted but for my interference ; in theGreenwich transit they were applied to-counteract any disposition to flexure , when the-instrument was directed to the horizon ; and although the greater length of the Greenwich instrument , : would render such an effect more likely to happen than in mine , still As _I had never heard the Astronomer Royal speak but.n terms of the highest commendation of his instrument , I deemed ; it coa sistent with good sense to prot by his experience .
Until the Greenich transit was constructed the method of placing the-telescope to the required altitude , was by means of a semicircle fixed to one of the side pieces , Sand an index clamped to the pivot of the h ernier of which pressed slightly upon thefbrmer .
The index in this arrangement is very liable to be disturbed on reversion of the axis , and when the object-end of the telescope accidentally points below the horizon : also , after the index is set , should the position of the telescope be deranged before the observation is commenced , reference must be again made to the divisions of the semicircle ; and should the accident occur whilst the star is passing the wires , the observation will be lost .
The apparatus to remedy theseinconveniences is seen in Plate XVI .
and XVII .
figs. iand 6 , but better in Plate XVI .
fig. 2 , which is drawn to a scale half the dimensions of the original .
It consists of two complete circles , firmly attached to the eye-end of the telescope ; each circle is provided with two opposite verniers subdividing its divisions into minutes of a degree ; the indices have clamps and slow moving screws , and microscopes are attached to the verniers : a spirit level is also affixed to the index of each *circle , whoserange of bubble corresponding to one minute , is about half an inch .
When this apparatus is adjusted , on the vernier being set to the place of a star , and the telescope moved round till the bubble stand in the middle of its range , then will the star traverse the field between the two horizontal wires.* Hence it is evident , that should by accident the telescope be moved before , -or during observation , the merely restoring the bubble to the middle of its range , will again present the star to the observer 's view , without any reference to the divisions .
But it is often of importance to observe the transits of stars , one of which , in right ascension differs very little with the other ; as for instance , Capella and Rigel ; here the index of one circle may be set to the first star4 whilst that of the other may be placed to the second ; and when observations by direct vision , are to be compared with those obtained by reflection , the index of the one , will point the telescope to the direct place of the star , whilst that of the other , will present the instrument to its reflected image .
Figures 3 and 4 , of Plate XVI .
exhibit the side pieces and Y ?
in which -he pivots of the axis rest ; the plates which are semicircular , are imbedded in the stone piers , and are firmly screwed into them .
Figure 8 , represents the eastern plate , in which the adjustment for the level of the axis is made : a piece , of which the upper end is formed into a Y , is moveable perpendicularly , but well secured from motion in every other direction ; the means of gradual adjustment are brought about , by a piece having a short cylindrical part in the middle , at the upper end a fine screw , and at the lower end a coarse one ; the fine screw works in the moveable piece , and the coarse one in the fixed plate ; the cylindrical part being perforated in many places , enables it to be acted upon by a capstan pin , and thus an effect equal to the difference of the two screws , is produced .
This last part , because easy of description , was not brought under the view of the draftsman , by removing the covering plate ; a slit in it however exposes two or three of the capstan holes of the differential screw .
Fig. 4 , Plate XVI .
shows the western plate , the general outline of which corresponds with that just described ; the motion of the Y piece is here only horizontal , for the purpose of placing the instrument in the meridian .
The adjustment is effected by means of twoscrews , which work in the opposite sides of the moveable Y piece , and whose heads abut against the fixed plate To produce motion in the Y piece , one of them must be screwed , and the other unscrewed ; but in order that the screws might be both moved at the same time , by equal quantities , and when the observer 's eye is at the telescope , there is a system of pinion work , the handle for which adjustment is seen in Plate XVII .
fig. 6 , hanging down close to ; the inside of the western pier .
In the formation of the side plates very great attention was paid to render them steady in themselves , as also that their respective adjustments should not disturb each other.* Fig. 5 .
Plate XVI .
is a bird's-eye view of the head of one of the piers , and was meant chiefly to show the apparatus for relieving the pivots of the axis , and Y , from a great part of the weight which would otherwise bear upon them .
Immediately behind the adjustable Y piece , but rather broader , is a plain piece of brass , having aY cut in its upper end ; a lever also is seen , one extremity of which passes into a hole made in the Y piece just alluded to , whilst the other end carries a weight ; the bar of the lever is expanded into a'circle , whose centre is about one-third of the lever 's length distant from the pivot of the axis .
The circle is sufficiently large to admit the illuminating lantern ; in its diameter at right angles to the direction of the lever are inserted two steel screws , whose blunted points are hardened and polished ; these rest on hardened and polished steel planes , which are let into the stone pier , and together form the fulcrum in a manner not unlike the common balance .
The weight is a circular thick plate , or short cylinder , and is hooked on to the end of the lever ; it is made hollow , with an opening upon it 's superior edge , allowing small shot to be introduced at pleasure , according as it is wished that the instrumental portion of the pivot , as also the instrumental Y piece , should be more orless relieved .
A reference to fig. So Plate XVI .
will render all this perfectly intelligible .
Fig. 7 , Plate XVII is a perspective view of the eye end of the telescope , in which many of the parts above described are differently , and some of them better seen .
In it a micrometer is shown , which moves a plate contiguous to that in which the five transit wires are inserted ; one wire is contained in the moveable plate , and is intended to facilitate theobservations of Polaris , and other juxta polar stars .
In fig. 6 , Plate XVII .
on the eastern side of the telescope , is seen projecting from it a finger screw ; this gives motion to an apparatus within the tube of the telescope , for regulating the quantity of light projected from the illuminator Upon the transit wires of the instrument .
The instrument was placed upon its piers on the 6th of June , 1820 , and on the day following a series of experiments was begun , to find , if possible , any defects which might invalidate the accuracy of observations hereafter to be made with it the permanency of the side plates , and of the Y pieces contained in them , was incessantly scrutinized ; observations by reflection and by direct vision were compared ; continual reversions of the instrument were made ; constant exanmina tion of the horizontality of the axis , after every alteration of instrumental position , was never omitted ; and the state of itscollimation was frequently ascertained.* The results having satisfied my astronomical friends as well as myself , that the instrument fulfilled all the required conditions , further experiments were deemed unnecessary ; and on the 5th of August , the instrument being relieved from its two months ' " torture , " was prepared to grapple with the delicate observations for which it was designed .
The character which the instrument acquired shortly after its erection , four years ' subsequent experience has unequivocally confirmed ; and exclusive of the property which it is the object of the subsequent pages to investigate , I know not whether most to respect it , for the unusual accuracy with which it obeys its adjustments , or for the extreme pertinacity with which it retains them .
The object glass of the Greenwich Transit instrument is five inches in clear aperture ; its focal length is 1o feet ; its horizontal axis , including the pivots , is 3 feet lo inches ; in the focus of the object glass are seven fixed wires , and two moveable for micrometrical purposes the semicircles at the eye end of the telescope , being insufficient to enable the observer to direct the instrument to the reflected image of a star , a divided circle two feet in diameter , is attached to one end of the axis ; the pivots , originally of hard bell metal , having suffered an alteration of figure from constant use , were removed during the spring of last year by Mr. TROUGHTON , and others , made of hardened steel , inserted in their stead .
There is no apparatus whereby the observer , whilst making sidereal observations , can communicate to the instrument , azimuthal motion .
With these exceptions , the Greenwich Transit is the same as mine ; the description therefore given of the one , will convey nearly an accurate idea of the nature of the other .
The computed Right Ascension of the Sun , with which his Right Ascension as determined by observation , will be compared in the subsequent pages , is that given in the Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris for the respective years , where it stands computed for the meridian of Greenwich ; the comparisons , however , being those arising from observations made at another station , viz. Blackman-street Observatory , it becomes necessary to inquire , how far equations can be found , adequate to reduce the sun 's right ascension computed for Greenwich , to his right ascension when on the meridian of Blackman-street .
This is a matter which observation must decide .
Tables I. and 11 .
show various right ascensions of the sun observed in Blackman-street during the years 1821 and 1 822 ; the former presents sixteen , the latter nineteen transits of the sun made on consecutive days ; the maximum difference between the observed daily motion in right ascension and the computed daily motion in right ascension , is 26 hundredths of a second in the one , and 22 hundredths in the other ; in the former table the mean difference of sixteen comparisons is only 4 hundredths of a second in time , whilst in the other it is only 3 hundredths .
Hence there can be no doubt , that we may safely enough employ the computed daily motion in right ascension , to arrive at accurate corrections of the sun 's computed right ascension , for the differences of longitude of the two observatories .
Tables III .
, and IV .
contain the sun 's right ascension scormputed for the meridian of Blackman-street , on such days as the sun 's transit was observed there , during z821 and 1822 , also the equations employed for the purpose the longitude of Blackman-street Observatory being 21.76 seconds of time west of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich .
Tables V. and VI .
exhibit the difference between the sun 's observed and computed right ascensions , as determined in Blackman-street during the years 1821 and 1822 ; these require explanation .
The Observatory being situated in one of the principal manufacturing , as well as in one of the most populous , districts of the metropolis , the instruments were exposed to the inconveniences of soot falling upon them , from the chimneys of the neighbouring houses , steam engines , &amp;c. and the transit , from the nature of the opening in the roof , came in for its full share : to protect its tubes , therefore , from the ravages of the soot , they were , shortly after the erection of the instrument .
, covered with green woollen cloth , which being neatly fitted and attached by buttons , afforded no encumbrance during the observations .
The openings in the roof to the north and south were about i8 or 20 inches in breadth ; and the telescope , when directed to the zenith , extended some way between the ceiling of the observatory and its roof .
The shutters were so contrived as to be opened in an instant ; and by a slight frame-work it was very easy to screen all the " parts of the instrument , and also the piers , from the access of the sun 's rays ; it was likewise a matter of the greatest facility to prevent his raysfrom falling on the eastern half of the instrument , whilst the western was exposed to their influence .
Previous to observing the sun 's transit , it was my ordinary habit not to open the shutter , till his first limb had nearly reached the first wire of the instrument .
This precaution was uniformly adopted , in the observations of 1821 , till the 22d of August ; the consequences are seen : by the annexed differences .
If , however , we adopt the hypothesis , that the mere exposure of the instrument to the sun 's rays during the observation of his transit ( a period about 0j minutes ) be adequate to produce instrumental derangement corresponding to 8 or 9 tenths of a second in time , it is fair to expect that a longer exposure would produce a greater discordance , ,and vice versa .
On the 22d of August , therefore , the western* halfof the instrument 'was exposed to the solar rays , 18 minutes before the sun 's centre came to the meridian ; the effect , however , being very inconsistent with theory , on the 23d it was exposed 24 minutes ; the mean differences of temperature of the western and eastern axes , and western and eastern braces being 1 degrees but without any evidence of increased displacement .
On the 24th of August , the western half of the instrument was exposed 65 minutes before noon , still without any material difference ; indeed , if the observations could be relied upon ( which they certainly cannot ) , to 7-hundredths of a second of time , the result of this day 's exposure of the instrument , would militate against the hypothesis , that the sun 's rays have any thing to do with the matter , seeing that the difference is in the negative sense .
On September 2nd , all the coverings were removed from the instrument , and it was defended from the solar rays , till the sun 's first limb had nearly reached the first wire .
On September card , the instrument* without its coverings , was exposed to the sun 's rays , 9 minutes before his centre came to the meridian ; the difference between the thermometers on the western axis and brace , and those on the eastern being nearly 14 degrees , yet the discordance between the results of the two days transits , is absolutely insensible .
On September the 4th , the instrument was entirely defended from the sun 's rays .
On the 5th , the western braces and axis , also the western half of the centre piece being covered with black cloth , whilst those on the eastern half were enveloped in white , the instrument was exposed 65 minutes before noon , to the sun 's rays ; thermometers placed under the covers of the western axis , and western brace , stood 1 3D.5 higher , than those placed under the covers of the eastern axis and brace ; yet the discordance between the observed and computed right ascensions , varies only one thousandth of a second , from the quantity obtained on the 4th , when the instrument was entirely defended from the solar rays .
On September 24tl , the instrument was completely screened } from the sun 's rays ; but on the 295th they were allowed tofall upon the instrument 's western axis and-brace , ; sixty-three minutes , during a cloudless sky ; yet between the results of the one day , and the other .
, there is only a difference of 7 hundredths of a second .
On October 2ist and 22nd , the instrument being exposed to the sun 's rays , thermometers under the black covers of the western axis and brace , differed on the former day 120.5 from those under the covers of the white axis and brace ; but on the latter , the difference of temperature was more than i160 ; the difference between the results of the two days ' observations , is nine hundredths of a second : unfortunately , there are no observations with which these can lbe compared .
In like manner might we discuss individually , the results of experiments made on several occasions during the year 1822 ; the days however are noted in Table VI .
when the instrument was exposed ; and Table VII .
details all the particulars which are essential to the investigation ; to which therefore the reader is referred , as also for a more circumstantial account of the exposure of the instrument to the sun 's rays during the year 1821 .
On looking down the columns of differences , between the observed and computed right ascensions of the sun , from the * Experiments during exposure of the instrument , were never commenced , except under every probability of success ; when however ( as frequently happened ) , transient clouds obscured the sun , even but for half a minute , the operations were discontinued , and the results disregarded and destroyed .
MnDCCCXxVI .
L various determinations of 1821 and i822 , exhibited in Tables V. and VI .
it will be seen , although the difference is not constant , yet that within two or three days , its amount does not greatly vary by collecting therefore consecutive transits , in pairseah of which shall always contain a result , derived from observation made during exposure of the instrument , we may probably arrive at some conclusion , which , although not demonstrative , will still merit considerable confidence , Let us begin with 1 8I 12 .
From Table V. 1821 .
Instrument exposed .
Instrument defended .
Difference , seconds .
seconds .
seconds .
August 2z + 0.755 August Zi + 0.733 + o0o0z Sept. 3+ o.672 Sept. z+ o.66i + 0o011 3+ o.67z 4+ o.66i + 0.0 ! !
5+ o.66o 4+ o.66ix -0.o0 25 + 0.701 24 + 0.773 -0.072 Mean diff , of the s pairs= -o.=oo8 From Table VI .
1822 .
Instritment exposed .
Instrumet t defended .
Difference .
seconds , seconds .
seconds .
March I+ 0.030 February 28 + 0.122 0.195 May 2I + o.86i May 22 +.932 0.071 31 + 0.97 !
June 1 +o.826 + 0.145 Juie 2+ o.826 June I +o.826 + 0.000 2+ 0.826 Julie 3+ 0.873 0.047 4+ 0.704 June 3 -+ 0.873 _ o.169 7+ 0.705 June 6+ 0.927 0.222 Decem .
22 + 0.16+ Dec(m .
23 + 0.158 + o.oo6 Mean diff , of te8 pairs =o o6gt Hence in 18291 the mean of 5 observations , obtained whe'n the instrument was exposed to the sun 's rays , varies from the mean of 5 observations , made when the instrument was entirely defended from their influence , six thousandths of a second of time ; whilst in 1822 , the mean derived from 8 observations made under exposure , compared with the mean of 8 results , obtained when the instrument was completely defended from the sun 's rays , differs sixty-nine thousandths of a second of time .
The mean therefore of the two series , allowing each , a weight proportional to the number of observations on which it rests is forty-five thousandths of a second of time .
Whether this arise , from error of observation , erroneous computation , or from instrumental derangement , we have not sufficient data to determine : fortunately , however , the quantity is very small , and if it really could be brought , to support the hypothesis , I that the sun 's rays falling unequally upon the instrument , occasioned the discordances complained of , " it would lose much of its apparent weight , when it is remembered , that not the ordinary exposure of the instrument to the sun , but ten times that quantity , was employed to pros cure it .
The mean difference however between the observed and computed right ascensions is less under exposure , than when the instrument was defended ; hence , were it wanted , it might be called upon as additional evidence , in favour of the conclusion which the experiments afford , namely , , that the discordances between the observed and computed right ascen* On referring to page 446 , there seems some reason to believe , that the differences found between the observations of February 28th and March ist , May 31st and June ist , June 3rd and June 4th , June 6th and June 7th , are not the results of instrumental derangement , nor of erroneous observation .
The Greenwich and Paris observations corroborate our ist difference ; the mean of the Greenwich and Paris , supports our 2d ; the Paris determination coincides with our 3d ; and the Dublin is nearly similar to our 4th .
sions , as determined by:the Blackman-street observations of t1821 and 1822 , were not the consequences of instrumental inaccuracy .
" To obtain however these results , we have been obliged to recur to the sun 's right ascension , as computed in the Nautical Almanac ; it is therefore possible , that the near coincidences above indicated , may arise from a balance of errors , between derangement of the instrument on the , one hand , and inaccu rate calculation on the other we will therefore appeal to experiments , which shall be independent of astronomical tables .
The brightness of the pole star , and the difference of polar distance between it , and the sun , render it visible in the day time , throughout the year : during the spring and autumn , it comes to the meridian about noon in the former , at its superior , in the latter , at its inferior transit ; in the one instance , the sun is about 8g north , in the other as much south of the equator ; the arc therefore intercepted between the star and the sun , being about 2o ?
greater in autumn , than in the spring , observations of the star , will be gotten with greater facility in the former , than in the latter .
With the ordinary observing power , of 25o , the transit of thestar- , when very steady , may be determined by my instrument , to half a second of time .
If therefore , the sun 's rays can occasion such instrumental derangement , as may be easily perceptible by the sun 's transit , we must expect that their power will be incontrovertibly established , if observations of the pole star , made under exposure of the instrument to the san 's -rays , .
be compared with those made , when the instrument is defended from them .
Table VIII .
shows the observed transits of the pole star , during the autumns of 1821 and 1823 also the nature and extent of the exposure , to which the instrument was subjected .
Table IX .
indicates the portions of time , in which the pole star passed to the several wires , when the instrument was exposed to the sun 's rays ; whilst Table X. gives the like information , when the instrument was entirely defended from them .
Table XI .
shows the difference between the intervals of time , in which the pole star passed to the several wires , when the instrument was exposed to , and defended from , the sun 's rays ; and the results for two adjoining wires , are as follow : Seconds .
0.17 1.255 +.17 From the observations of +0 17 .
*1 ~~1821 .
+ 1.285 !
i 1.00 -0.87 + 0,571 0 -3$ From the observations of + 0.50 [ 1823 .
+ 0.50 Mean =.15 Thus it seems , that the time taken by the pole star to pass over any two adjoining wires of the instrument , is less when the instrument is exposed to the sun 's rays , than when it is defended from them , by 0.15 of a second ; which , when quadrupled , and referred to the sun 's mean polar distances is less than two hundredths of a second of time .
The quantity is nearly insensible ; and considering that an exposure at least ten times as great , as the instrument receives during an ordinary observation of the sun 's transit , was required to produce it , I am led to the conclusion , " that , the discordances between the observed and computed right ascensions of the Sun , as determined by the Blackman-street observations of 1821 and 1822 , did not arise , from instrumental derangement .
' " But it may be urged that , although the experiments here narrated , prove that the differences between the sun 's observed and computed right ascensions , cannot have arisen from derangement of the instrument employed in obtaining them , still there may be some peculiarity in the eye , or the judgement of the observer , which , if it exist at all , will exist as well in the observations made during exposure , as in those made , when the instrument was defended .
This is a point which must be cleared up .
If the differences really be as great , as my observations make them , it is fair to expect they cannot have escaped detection , in other observatories .
As being easily accessible , and better known in this country than any other , let us appeal to the corresponding observations , at the Royal Observatory of Greenwich , the Royal Observatory of Paris , and the Dublin Observatory .
Our Astronomer Royal , having very obligingly transmitted me a copy of such corresponding observations , as were procured at Greenwich , the comparison with the Blackmanstreet determinations , is extremely easy , the same mean right ascensions of the standard stars , as also the same correotions , having been used at the two stations .
The Paris and Dubin results , will require reductions to render them comparable with the observations of Blackmanstreet , and Greenwich ; Monsr .
BOUVARD having , however , kindly annexed to the Paris observations , the names of the stars used each day , in determining the clock 's error , and having also put me in possession of the catalogue used at the Paris observatory , to find equations , by which each observation might be expressed in terms of the Greenwich catalogue , became only a matter of calculation .
Dr. BRINKLEY having likewise been equally indulgent , the Dublin observations are , by similar treatment , available to my purpose .
Tables XII .
and XIII .
contain the sun 's right ascension computed'for the meridian of Paris , on such days as the sun 's transit was observed at the Paris , and Blackman-street observatories , during 1821 and 1822 ; whilst Tables XIV .
and XV .
answer the same purpose for the meridian of Dublin .
The longitude of the former , being assumed as 9MIn 215ee .
of time east ; whilst that of the latter is regarded as 25mm .
22se of time , west of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich .
Tables XVI .
and XVII .
exhibit the sun 's right ascension , as observed at Paris , by the Paris Catalogue , in values of the Greenwich Catalogue ; and Tables XVIII .
and XIX .
serve the like purpose to the Dublin observations , reduced by the Dublin Catalogue , Tables XX .
and XXI .
show the differences between the sun 's observed and computed right ascensions , by Greenwich observations of 1821 and 1822 .
Tables XXII .
and XXIII .
indicate the differences by Paris observations and Tables XXIV .
and XXV .
exhibit the dis .
cordances by Dublin observations .
Table XX , shows us , that the mean of 31 observations made at Greenwich in 1821 , gave the observed right ascension of the sun .
, greater than his computed right ascension , o.697 of a second of time .
And Table XXI .
informs us , that by the mean of 45 observations , made-at Greenwich in 18922 , the observed right ascension , was found greater than the computed , 0.420 of a second .
Table XXII .
presents us with the mean of 16 observations of the sun , made at the Royal Observatory of Paris in 1821 , whereby his observed right ascension , exceeds his computed right ascension , o.584 of a second .
And Table XXIII .
indicates , that by 28 observations made at the-Paris Observatory in S822 , the observed right ascension , was found greater than the computed right ascension , o.558 of a second .
Table XXIV-.offers to our notice , g observations of the sun , made in the year 1821 , at Dublin whereby the observed right ascension , was determined to be -greater than the computed , o.666 of a second .
And Table XXV .
exhibits id observations made in 1822 , at the Observatory of Dublin , giving the observed right ascension of the sun , greater than his computed , by o.686 of a second of time .
The two following Tables will facilitate the comparison of the results , as obtained at the respective observatories .
Hence we find for 1821 , ( That 3li observations made in Blackman-street , gave the sun 's observed right ascension , greater seconds , than the computed , o. 708 And by 31 correspondent observations at the Royal I Observatory of Greenwich , the observed right ascension , was found greater than the computed , o.627 [ That i6 observations made in Blackman-street , gave the sun 's observed right ascension , greater than the computed , 0.736 q And that 16 observations on corresponding days , made at the Royal Observatory of Paris , determined the observed right ascension , to exceed L the computed , o.,584 f That 9 observations made in Blackman-street , found the sun 's observed right ascension , greater than his computed right ascension , o.716 I And that 9 correspondent observations made at fDublin , found the observed right ascension , greater than the computed , o.666 And during 1822 , That 45 observations made in Blackman-street , j determined the sun 's observed right ascension , seconds .
to be greater than the computed , o.6o8 And that 45 observations made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , on corresponding days , gave the observed right ascension , greater than the computed by , 0.420 That 28 observations made at the Observatory in Blackman-street , found the observed right asSecds cension , to exceed the computed , -.632 And that by 28 corresponding observations at the Royal Observatory of Paris , the observed right ascension , was determined to be greater than the computed , -o.S8 That by 15 observations in Blackman-street , the observed right ascension , was found greater than the computed , by o.693 And that 15 correspondent observations made at the Observatory of Dublin , the observed right ascension , exceeded the computed , by o.686 Seeing therefore that results not materially differing from the Blackman-street determinations , are derived from the Greenwich , the Paris , and the Dublin observations , it is reasopnable to conclude , that the discordances between the observed and computed right ascensions of the sun , as found by the Blackman-street observations did not arise front any peculiarity in the eye , or judgement of the individual employed , in obtaining them .
We have however hinted in a former part of this memoir , that the differences as determined in Bla'ckman-street , were not constant ; and by reference to the preceding tables , discordances amongst them , to an amount far greater than can be attributed to erroneous observation , will readily be detected ; hence , an investigation into their nature , becomes desirable ; this , however , would lead us into an inquiry beyond the purport of the present communication ; which , besides a brief description of an admirable instrument , was intended chiefly to show , " 1 that the discordances between the observed and computed Right Ascensions of the Sun , as determined at the Blackman-street Observatory , in the years 1821 and 1822 , did not originate , in instrumental inaccuracy.- " I hope however ere long to show , to the satisfaction of the Society , that the source of the discordances , must be sought for , in the imperfections of the Solar Tables .
JAMES SOUTH .
Sloane-street , No. 132 .
Mary z , x876 .

