396 BOTANY OF RODRIGUEZ .
nent marginal cells , as is so frequently observable among the species destitute of the hyaline limb .
Fissidens brevifrons , Mitt . .
Caulis brevis oblique ascendens .
Folia circiter sex juga longitudine increscentia frondem sub-flabelliformem sistentia , superiora anguste linealia apice latiuscule acuta nervo valido pallidiore percursa , lamina vera vix mediam folii attingente apice acuta parum insequale , dorsali ad nervi basin anguste continuata , e cellulis minutis fere opacis areolata integerrima .
Stem a line long .
The upper leaves one and a half line long , of a glaucous olive green , becoming brown .
On clay rocks .
Rare .
Allied to the S. African F. plumosus , Hornsch .
, but with leaves narrower at the points and more opaque .
Fissidens flaccidus , Mitt , in Trans. Linn. Soc. xxiii .
56 .
t. 6 , f. xviii .
Sparingly on clay rocks .
The specimens , all of a dark brown colour , agree with those from Western Africa .
In this species the nerve vanishes some distance below the point of the leaf , an uncommon circumstance in the genus .
Fissidens Vogelianus , Mitt , in Trans. Linn. Soc. xxiii .
54 .
t. 5 , f. x. With Anthoceros fuciformis .
The specimens have the leaves a little wider than in those from the Western Coast of Africa .
In other respects they agree closely .
HEPATICiE .
By William Mitten , A.L.S. The entire number of the Hepaticse is eighteen , of which thirteen were obtained with more or less complete fructification and five only were barren .
As in the Mosses the genera are all African , but only three of the species are identical with African or Mascarene forms ; one only is also found in the Eastern Archipelago , and one Anthoceros Icevis may be said to be cosmopolitan .
Thirteen of the species appear to be new , of these nine are fertile and four barren .
Lophocolea subrotunda , Mitt .
Caulis repens pallidus .
Folia imbricata aLterna explanata marginibus recurvis convexa vel sursum secunda apicibus recurvis ovato-rotunda , apice rotundata sub-retusave , integerrima ; amphigastria parva caulem vix latitudine superantia quad-rifida , basi uno latere cum folio subajacente anguste connexa , cellulis parvis rotun-datis pellucidis areolata , perianthium triquetrum superne latiore , labiis longis spinosis ; HEPATICiE.\#151 ; WILLIAM MITTEN .
angulis ala inconspicua .
Polia involucralia apice bidentata cseterum integerrima , basi cum ampliigastrio magno dentibus pluribus spinosis elongatis connexa .
Not common .
On decayed wood and peaty soil .
Allied to L. pallida , Mitt , from Lord Auckland 's Islands , in its entire leaves , but although less in size more nearly resembling heterophylla .
No bidentate leaves are observable except the two next the perianth .
Plate 38 0.\#151 ; 1 .
Plant of the natural size .
2 : A portion with leaves and stipule as seen on the dorsal side .
3 .
Perianth with involucral leaves and stipule : all magnified .
Lophocolea opposita , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens .
Folia explanata imbrieata marginibus recurvis convexula , oblongo-ovata , apice truncata sinu obtuso breviter bidentata integerrima , basi antice ssepius cum folio opposito decurrente connexa postice cum amphigastrio quadri-dentato caule latiore utrinque cOalita , e cellulis parvis rotundis areolata , involucralia conformia margin dorsali ventralique dentibus 2-3 brevibus armata amphigastrio ovali apice breviter bi-quadridentato , perianthium triquetrum ala indistincta labiis spinoso-dentatis .
Along with and in same situations as the last .
Not common .
In size similar to L. semiteres ( Chiloscyp , Synops .
Hepat .
190 , but more pellucid and of a pale whitish green .
Among the small species of this genus , to which the present must be placed , it is remarkable for its leaves being united in front , or , as usually written , on the dorsal side of the stems .
Plate 38 D.\#151 ; 1 .
Plant of natural size .
2 .
Portion of stem with leaves and stipule as seen on the dorsal side .
3 .
Involucral leaves and combined stipule removed from the stem .
4 .
Perianth as seen on the side : all magnified .
Chiloscyphus oblongifolius , Mitt , in Trans. Linn , fifoc .
xxiii .
58 .
t. 6 , f. xxii .
Common on the moist banks of streams .
Stems all barren , a little more robust than the specimens from the Niger ; otherwise without difference .
This species is found also in Mauritius .
Radula appressa , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens parum ramosus .
Folia dorso imbricata divergentia sub-obovata ob marginem inferiorem medio sinuatum apice rotundato decurva integerrima cellulis parvis densis obscuris dorso minute papulosis areolata , lobulo subquadrato appresso apice obtuso ad medium usque folii latitudinis protracta basi ad insertionem caulem ad medium tegente .
Yery abundant .
A small species resembling B. buccinifer , Taylor , and B. Nova , Hampe .
Phragmicoma emergens , Mitt .
Caulis repens ramosus .
Folia humida fere verticalia divergentia sicca imbricata ambitu explanata ovato-orbiculata , margin yentrali incurva lobulo semiorbiculari plerumque tridenticulato appresso , cellulis rotundo-ovalibus exterioribus rotundiori-bus carnosulis areolata , ampbigastria transverse oblonga caulem duplo latiora apice late truncata obtusa .
Folia involucralia magna lobulo que apice rotundato una cum amphigastrio obovato rotundato integerrima .
obovato-oblongum emergens sub-compressum , dorso et ventre tricarinatum , igitur octoplicatum .
Stems and branches with the leaves about a line wide .
Leaves brown , with cells twice the size of F. carinata .
Only in a few places on branches of trees .
Plate 39 A. 1 .
Portion of plant of the natural size .
2 .
Part of the stem with leaves and stipule as seen on the ventral side .
3 .
The same as seen on the dorsal side .
4 .
A leaf removed , as seen on the under side .
5 .
Perianth with capsule , with involucral leaves and stipule , as seen on the ventral side .
6 .
Transverse outline of the perianth : all magnified .
Phragmicoma carinata , Mitt .
Caulis repens ramis pluribus irregularibus ramosus .
Folia subverticaliter patentia sicca imbricata , ambitu explanata ovato-rotundato margin ventrali incurva , lobulo lato appresso semiorbiculari plerumque unidentato , e cellulis ovalibus carnosulis chlorophylloso obscuratis marginem versus rotundioribus areolata , amphigastria caulem duplo latiora subrotunda apice lata subtruncata margin recurva subretusata .
Folia mvolucralia majora obovata obtusa angulatave lobulo oblongo , amphigastrium magnum ovale apice obtusum integerrimum margin in medio apicis recurvum .
Ferianthium emergens oblongum dorso planum ventre alte carinatum , igitur tripli-catum .
Stems and branches with the leaves two-thirds of a line wide .
Leaves obscure , brown .
When dry the older parts are ochraceous brown .
Common on trees .
Often on the stem of Plate 39 B. 1 .
Stem of the natural size .
2 .
A portion seen on the ventral side with leaves and stipules .
3 .
A leaf as seen on the under side .
4 .
Perianth with involucral leaves and stipule : all magnified .
Lejeunia Balfouri , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens parum ramosus subsimplex .
Folia a dorso visa imbricata convexula divergentia oblongo-ovalia rotundata integerrima , lobulo ventrali obsoleto , cellulis rotundis parvis crassiuscule limitatis lsevibus areolata .
jLmphigastria cauli triplo latiora rotunda integerrima .
Ferianthium in ramo brevissimo subsessile late obcordatum applanatum lseve marginibus superioribus undulato sinuatis rugosis .
Folia involucralia conformia lobulo parvo transverse oblongo apice obtuso , amphigastrium ovali-rotundum integerrimum .
The stems with the leaves a line wide .
Common on the moist clay rocks at the sides of streams .
In dull olive brown oi blackish patches .
HEPATIC-\#174 ; .\#151 ; WILLIAM MITTEN .
lake F. Hobsoniana , Bindenb , from the West Indian Islands , hut perianth destitute of wing or teeth , owing to its position near the base of the stems it is very inconspicuous .
Plate 39 0 .
1 .
Branch of the natural size .
2 .
A portion of the same seen on the ventral side , with leaves and stipule .
3 .
Perianth ] with involucral leaves and stipule seen on the ventral side : all magnified .
Lejeunia abortiva , Mitt .
Caulis vage pinnatim ramosus procumbens .
Folia divergentia dorso imbricata ovali orbiculata apicibus incurvis planisve integerrima , e cellulis rotundo-hexagonis parietibus angustis nigro-fuscis areolata lobulo obsoleto .
Amphigastria parva rotunda integerrima caulem vix duplo latiora .
Folia involucralia amphigastriumque majora conformia .
Ferianthium obovatum obtusum , dorso planum , ventre bicari-natum .
Carinis vetralibus lateralibusque angulato erosis .
Stems with the leaves about half a line wide .
Entire plant blackish brown .
Grows in tufts on the clay rocks .
Allied to L. subfusca , Nees ab E. , but the carinse of the perianth are not alate nor with elongated teeth .
It may be the species mentioned in the Synopsis , p. 315 , under L. subfusca , as from Mauritius , in which the lobule of the involucral leaves is stated to be wanting .
Plate 39 D. 1 .
Plant of the natural size .
2 .
A portion of the stem with leaves and stipules seen on the ventral side .
3 .
Perianth with subjacent leaves and stipules as seen on ventral side .
4 .
Transverse outline of perianth : all magnified .
Lejeunia furva , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens ramosus .
Folia subimbricata directione patula rotundata integerrima cellulis rotundatis parietibus eras sis fuscoviridibus areolata , lobulo minuto quadrato vel omnino obsoleto .
Amphigastria rotunda parva caulem vix duplo latiora bifida laciniis acutis .
Fructus ad ramulorum latera .
involucralia parva lobulo oblongo acuta .
Ferianthium obovatum obtusum sequaliter quinque-plicatum .
Stem with the leaves half a line wide .
Entire plant dull brown , not altered in drying .
Along with Mosses on the moist clays at the sides of streams .
A species with the habit of the European L. sevjpy llifo Ha , but with round leaves .
Plate 40 A. 1 .
Plant of the natural size .
2 .
Portion of the stem with leaves and stipules , with perianth as usual arising from the side of lateral branch , also with the capsule past maturity and empty , seen from the ventral side : all magnified .
Lejeunia surrepens , Mitt .
Caulis repens .
Folia imbricata divergentia ovali orbiculata lobulo oblongo apice rectangulato ad medium marginis ventralis producta e cellulis rotundo-hexa-gonis pellucidis eequalibus areolata .
Amphigas rotundata caulem triplo super-antia , apice fissa , rarius indivisa .
Branches half a line wide .
Foliage whitish green .
Not common on tree stems .
This appears to he not different from a specimen , also barren , from Mauritius .
The length the lobule continued along the ventral margin renders this immediately distinguishable from the numerous species resembling L. .
Lejeunia angulifolia , Mitt .
Caulis repens ramosus .
Folia alterna patenti divergentia subovata apice angu-lata subacuta integerrima , lobulo subrotundo saccato , cellulis prominulis papuloso apice acuto , cellulae foliorum rotundatse pellucidse lsevise parietibus crassis obscuris viridibus .
Amphigastria minuta bifida caulem vix latiora .
Folia acutiora lobulo ovato acuto .
Amphigastrium ovale profunde fissum laciniis acutis .
Stems with the leaves about one third of a line wide .
Leaves all angled at the apices , and occasionally with one or more angles on the dorsal margin .
On tree stems .
Not uncommon .
A small species , less than L serpyllifolia , of a pale green colour .
Allied to L. Nilgiriana , Mont .
, but more tender and with a more lax areolation .
Lejeunia nfinutissima , Sm .
Gathered sparingly on stems of trees .
Lejeunia subciliata , Mitt .
Caulis repens appressus ramosus .
Folia imbricata , dorso planiuscula , late ovata apice rotundata , margin dorsali cellulis elongatis hyalinis tenerrimis scarioso mar-ginata , cellulis reliquis rotundo-hexagonis parietibus crassiusculis areolata , lobulo tumido ovale apice apiculo spiniformi terminato .
Amphigastria nulla .
Nearly related to L. pianissimo , Mitt .
, from Ceylon , which has the same kind of scarious margin , but is much more closely adherent to bark .
Stem with the leaves scarcely more than half a line wide .
Leaves whitish green , closely appressed to the bark on which the specimens were growing .
The scarious margin is composed of a single row of elongate cells placed side by side , and an irregularity in their length causes the edge to be erose ; this hyaline limb of diverse cells is here and there broken off , leaving the margin of the leaf itself entire .
Hare on stems .
Plate 40 B.\#151 ; 1 .
Stem of the natural size .
2 .
A portion of the same as seen on the ventral side .
3 .
Portion of the edge of the leaf on the dorsal edge : all magnified .
Frullania obscurifolia , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens repensve ramis vagis subpinnatim ramosus .
Folia imbricata orbiculata e cellulis angulato rotundis parietibus angustis teneris sed chlorophylloso HEP A TIC JE.\#151 ; -WILLI AM MITTEN .
obseuris , lobulo ovali dimidium folii longitudinis tegente compresso apice paululum a cauli divergente interdum explanato lacinia minuta interjecta .
caulem duplo latiora rotunda ta apice breviter bifida laciniis extus unidentatis .
Folia lucralia ovalia lobulo lato ovato-laneeolato acuto infeme lacinia dentiformi instructa amphigastrioque profunde bifido laciniis acutis integerrimis .
Ferianthium obo-vatum obtusum , apiculo brevi , compressum , dorso uni ventre bicarinatum .
Common on trees .
Similar to F. trinervis , Lehm .
et Lindenb .
, from S. Africa , but differing in its obscure areolation and the longer lobule of its leaves .
Plate 40 C.\#151 ; 1 .
Plant of natural size .
2 .
A portion of the stem with leaves and stipules on the ventral side .
3 .
Perianth with involucral leaves and stipule .
4 .
Transverse section of perianth : all magnified .
Frullania squarrosa , Nees ab F. Very common on trees .
Frullania apicalis , Mitt .
Caulis gracilis pinnatim ramosus .
Folia dorso convexa divergenfcia orbiculata integerrima cellulis parvis rotundatis distinctis sed utriculo collapso obscuratis areolata , lobulo ovali-cylindraceo erecto cauli parallello lacinia parva interjecta , in ramulorum apicibus lobulo apice ad caulem incumbente , amphigastria obovata bifida laciniis extus unidentatis , folia involucralia acuta lobulo ovato acutiore amphigastrioque marginibus dentatis .
Ferianthium oblongo-obovatum , dorso piano ventre unicarinato .
Common on trees , specially on Pandanus .
In size and colour , as well as in the form and imbrication of its leaves , nearly resembling F. Capensis , Gottsche Syn .
Hep .
449 , but with more the habit of F. gracilis , and the leaves of the involucre dentate .
Plate 40 D.\#151 ; 1 .
Stems of the natural size .
2 .
Portion with leaves and stipules as seen from the ventral side .
3 .
Perianth with involucral leaves and stipule : all magnified .
Anthoceros lsevis , Linn. Common on moist clay rocks on the banks of streams .
Anthoceros fuciformis , Mont , in Ann. Sc. Not .
2d ser. xx .
296 .
Growing along with the foregoing .
This appears to be the same as the specimen from Bourbon .
The spores are opaque and echinulate .
CHAR ACE AD .
Chara Commersoni , A. Braun .
In many streams .

