XV .
A Letter on the Diferences in the Structure of Calculi , which arise from their being formed in different Parts of the urinary Passages ; and on the Effects that are produced upon them , by the internal Use of solvent Aedicines , from Mr. William Brand to Everard Honme , Esq. F. R. S. Read , May 19 , i8o8 .
DEAR SIR , HAVING availed myself of the opportunity you procured for me , of making a chemical examination of the calculi contained in the HUNTERIAN MUSEUM , as well as those in your own collection , I herewith send you an account of what I have done .
Should the observations appear to you to throw any new light upon the formation of calculi , I request that you will do me the honour of laying them before the ROYAL SOCIETY .
The collection which I have examined , is not only uncommonly large , but the greater part of the specimens have histories of the case annexed to them .
This circumstance enabled me not only to ascertain the situations in which the calculi were found , but likewise many of the circumstances attendant on their formation .
I have therefore endeavoured to form an arrangement upon these principles , with a view to render the subject more clear and perspicuous .
SECTION 1 , Of Calculi formed in the Kidnies , and voided without having aftelwards undergone any Change in the urinary Passages .
These have the following properties : They are of a brownish yellow colour , sometimes of a grayish hue , which seems to arise from a small portion of dry mucus adhering to their surface .
They are entirely soluble in a solution of pure potash , and during their solution , they seldom emit an odour of ammonia .
When heated to dryness , with nitric acid , the residuum is of a fine and permanent red colour .
When exposed to the action of the blow-pipe , they blacken and emit a strong odour of burning animal matter , very different from that of pure uric acid .
This arises from a variable proportion of animal matter which they contain , and which occasions the loss in the analysis of these calculi .
Its relative quantity is liable to much variation , as may be seen from the following statements .
A calculus from the kidney , weighing seven grains , was dissolved in a solution of pure potash .
A quantity of muriatic acid ( rather more than sufficient for the saturation of the potash ) was added , and the precipitate of uric acid thus obtained weighed when dry 4.5 grains .
No other substance except animal matter , which was evident on attempting to obtain the muriate of potash , could be detected , consequently the composition of this calculus was as follows : Grs .
Uric acid 4.5 Animal matter 2.5 7.0 This is the largest proportion of animal matter which I have imet with .
A small calculus from the kidnley , weighing 3.7 grains , afforded by a like treatment 3.5 grains of uric acid , so that it was nearly a pure specimen of that substance .
The largest calculus of this kind which I have examined weighed seventeen grains ; much larger ones have been found , but there is no evidence of their not having remained in the urinary passages for some considerable time .
Thus Dr. HEBERDEN mentions one weighing twenty-eight grains.* It often happens that the ingredients are not united together so as to form a calculus , but are voided in the state of a fine powder , commonly termed sand .
This consists either of uric acid , or of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , alone , or with the phosphate of lime .
I am induced to believe that the last mentioned substances , although the production of the kidnies , and held in solution , are never met with in a separate state till the urine has been at rest , and therefore , calculi from the kidnies are never composed of the phosphates .
In a few instances , calculi from the kidnies , composed of oxalate of lime , are voided ; but this is a very rare occurrence : of three preserved in the HUNTERIAN Collection , two are extremely small and hard , having an appearance of being made up of several smaller calculi , of a dark brown colour .
The third is of the size of a small pea , its surface smooth , and of a gray colour , and not very hard , SECTION II .
Of Calculi which have been retained in the Kidney .
When one or more of the calculi described in the preceding section are detained in the infundibula or pelvis of the kidney , it frequently happens that they increase in that situation to a considerable size , This increase is of two kinds .
i. Where there is a great disposition to the formation of uric acid , the calculus consists wholly of that substance and animal matter , so as frequently to form a complete cast of the pelvis of the kidney .
2 .
Where there is less disposition to form uric acid , the external laminae are composed of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , ' and phosphate of lime .
In:one:instance , a small uric calculus had been deposited in the kidney , in such a situation that its upper , surface was exposed to a continual stream of urine , upon which beautiful crystals of the triple phosphate had been deposited .
It would therefore seem , that under common circumstances , a stream of urine passing over a calculus of uric acid , has a tendency to deposit the phosphate upon it .
226 SECTION III .
Of Calculi of the urinary Bladder .
Calculi met with in the bladder are of four kinds .
1 .
Those formed upon nuclei of uric acid , from the kidney .
2 .
Those formed upon nuclei of oxalate of lime , from the kidney .
3 .
Those formed upon sand or animal mucus , deposited in the bladder .
4 .
Those formed upon extraneous bodies introduced into the bladder .
They were arranged under the following divisions .
i. Calculi , which from their external appearance , consist chiefly of uric acid .
These calculi vary in colour from a deep reddish brown , to a pale yellowish brown .
They are either entirely soluble in a solution of pure potash , or nearly so .
During their solution they frequently emit the odour of ammonia .
When acetic acid is added to their alcaline solution , a precipitate possessing the properties of uric acid is obtained .
2 .
Calculi , composed chiefly of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , or of phosphate of lime , or of mixtures of the two .
These calculi are externally of a whiter appearance than the former .
Some perfectly white , others gray , occasionally exhibiting small prismatic crystals upon their surface ; others again soft and friable , a good deal resembling chalk .
They are furtiler characterised by their solubility in dilute muriatic acid .
Gg2 e27 ctaining oat &amp; f urn If comol caled mul-berry -calculi .
Theseare distihngished by the !
diffieulty , with ' wichithey dissolve in dilute acids , by:their:t hadnEr s , :andby lei pulre lime , when exposed to the action of the blowpipe .
- ... In thheexamination of these calculi , I was-strck with the small number of those strictly belonging t the first division having-been led , from the account of FoUaRORO andi -vUQuinr : N , * and the experiments of Dr. PEARsoN , to:biev@ that:ealculi , composed of pure uric acid , were by no mean ' unfrequent .
IThlie greater number of the calculi examined-by the former chemists , are stated to be completely solubl'ein the fixed alcaline leys ; and of three ihundred examined by Dr. PEARSoN , a large proportion is-said to consist of uric acid .
The following is a statement of the composition of the dif ferent -calcu li found in the bladder which I have examined .
16 6were composed of uric acid .
'9Q --.uric acid with a small relative proportion of the phosphates .
66 _ - , thephosph ates , with a relatively small proportion of uric acid .
12::- , , r ' -----of the phosphatesentirely .
* : 5e..--:------:___ of uric acid , with the phosphates and nuclei of oxalate of lime .
'6 ?
'-._---.chiefly of oxalate of lime . ?
Annals de Chemie , xxxii .
z ~$ f Philosi Trans. 1798 .
p. 37 , To injure these calculi as little as possible , they were carefully cut through with a fine saw , and a portion of the whole cut surface removed by a fifle ; in this way .
aall the different ingredients of the calculi:were obtained .
In the : experiments upon uric calculi from the bladder , I found , in most instances , a far more considerable loss in attempting to obtain their pure uric acid , than in the kidney calculi , which led me to suppose that they contained:urea and that the presence of this substance , with some of the salts of urine , and with small portions of the ammoniacomagnesian phosphate , was the cause of the occasional evolution of ammonia when treated with tXhe fixed alcalies , and of their easy solubility in those substances .
To determine this pointr a small calculus , weighing twentyfive grains , and of the species co-rmmonoly supposed to consist of urate of ammonia , was digested for two hours with water in a very moderate he at .
The water which had assumed a pale yellow colour was filtered off , and fresh water added ; to the residuum three successive times , when it appeared that every thing soluble in that fluid was separated .
The insoluble partof the calculus beipng now carefully dried and weighed , was found to have lost 5.5 grains .
The aqueous solution was evaporated by a gentle hIeat nearly to dryness , and a substance was obtained hzaving all the properties of urea , in combination with a small portion of muriate of ammonia , and of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate .
* FOURC-ROY observes that urate.of ammonia is easily detected by its rapid solubility in the fixed alcalies , and the odour of ammonia , whiAch is perceived duriu ?
g its solution.-Vide Thomsont 's Syst. of JChern i , vo L , v , -p 69t Sixty grains of another calculus of a considerable size , supposed from a superficial analysis , to consist of nearly pure urate of ammonia , were digested at a low temperature in one ounce of alcohol .
In an hour the alcohol was decanted Oif , and fresh portions were added successively , as long as it appeared to act upon the calculus , which after having been carefully dried in a temperature below 212 ?
, weighed 54.8 .
grains , so that 5.2 grains had been taken up by the alcohol .
On evaporating the alcoholic solutions , a substance was obtained having all the properties of urea , with a small portion of saline matter , probably muriate of ammonia , as by the addition of potash , a slight ammoniacal odour was perceptible ; its quantity however was too minute for accurate examination .
The remaining portion of the calculus , weighing 54.S grains , was treated with small portions of acetic acid , by which 6 .
grains of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate were obtained .
The part of the calculus remaining after this treatment , weighing 48.8 grains was perfectly soluble in a solution of pure potash ; it emitted no ammoniacal odour when acted upon by the alcali , and possessed the properties of pure uric acid The following therefore is the composition of this calculus .
Grains , Urea , and muriate of ammonia 5.2 Ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate 6 , Uric acid 48.8 6o .
From these and many similar experiments upon other calculi , hitherto generally supposed to consist of urate of ammonia , I am induced to believe that the evolution of ammonia depends in all instances upon the decomposition of the ammoniacal salts contained in the calculus , more especially of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , and that no substance which can be called urate of ammonia , exists in calculi .
The mulberry calculus ( oxalate of lime ) I have but rarely met with .
In those preserved in the HUNTERIAN Collection , there is a large relative proportion of phosphate of lime , and of uric acid .
The purest of them afforded Grains Oxalate of lime 65 .
Uric acid 16 .
Phosphate of lime 5 .
Loss in animal matter .
4 .
100 .
When calculi of the urinary bladder increase to a very large size , they are generally composed of two or even three of the above mentioned varieties , the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate being situated externally , and in the greatest abundance .
The largest calculus which I have seen , weighed , when recently removed from the bladder , twenty-three ounces and twenty-six grains .
It consisted of a large mulberry or oxalate of lime calculus , the nucleus of which was uric acid , surrounded by a considerable quantity of the ammoniaco-magnesiain phosphate in a very pure state .
Another very large calculus , weighing fifteen ounces and a half , consisted of a nucleus of uric acid , enveloped in the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , not however pure , but intersected by several laminae of uric acid .
Four distinct substances are extremely rare in calculi ; I have s ben one in which the uric acid , the ammonilacon mag .
nesian pHisphate ' the phosphate of lime , and the oxalate of lime , were all in perfectly separate and distinct layers .
Four calculi , having the following extraneous substances for their nuclei were examined .
i. A common garden pea .
e. A needle. .
-A hazle nut .
4 .
A part of a common bougie .
In the two first instances , the calculous depositions were of a pale gray colour , inclining to white ; soft and friable in their texture , and entirely soluble in muriatic acid .
The composition of the first was as follows ; - , ,* ~~~~ .
, ,.*Grains , Phosphate of lime .
Ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate 28 .
Loss. .
100S Of the second ; Phosphate of lime i 45Ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate 38 , Oxalate of lime 1.- .
Loss : ' : 100 .
The deposition of calculous matter upon the bougie was covered with blood , and in very small quantity , the bougie having been removed by an operation soon after it had passed into the bladder .
It appeared to consist chiefly of phosphate of lime .
The incrustation upon the hazel nut was also destitute of uric acid .
SECTION IV .
Of Calculi of the Urethra .
All those that were examined had escaped from the bladder while very small , and had afterwards lodgedin the membranous part of the urethra , where they had increased in size , and formed a cavity in which they were more or less embedded .
Two of these calculi were broken .
The fragments consisted in one instance , of ammoniaconagsnesian phosphate , and phosphate of lime , with a small portion of uric acid : and in , the other the fragments were composed entirely of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate .
The third calculus was of a very remarkable appearance its form being that of a perfect sphere , about half an inch in diameter .
It was coated with small but very regular crystals of the trile phosphate in its purest state .
On account of the singularity of the form and external appearance of this calculus , it was not sawn through ; the nucleus , in all probability , is a small kidney calculus , which lodging in the urethra lias become coated with triple phosphate .
SECTION W .
Analysis of Calculi from other Animals .
i. THE HORSE .
A. From the kidney .
A very large calculus , from the kidney of a horse , was composed of Phosphate of lime 76 Carbonate of lime e 98 .
B. From the bladder .
This calculus was also of a large size , its weight when perfectly dry , nine ounces and a half , its external surface very irregular , of a reddish brown colour , and covered with minute crystals of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate .
On making a section of it , the internal structure exhibited a radiated appearance , and was of a light brown colour .
It consisted of Phosphate of lime 45 .
Ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate 28 .
Animal matter 5 Carbonate of lime 10 .
98 .
In another case the bladder of a horse was found to be nearly full of sand , the composition of which was as follows : Phosphate of lime 60 .
Carbonate of lime 40 .
100 .
2 .
THE Ox. A number of small calculi from the size of a pea downwards , are not unfrequently found in the bladder of the ox .
Those in the HUNTERIAN Collection are of a pale brown colour , and of the size just mentioned ; some of them have the mulberry appearance .
They consist of carbonate of lime and animal matter , which last substance retains the form of the calculus , after it has been acted upon by diluted acids .
g. THE SHEEP .
A calculus from the kidney of a sheep was composed of Phosphate of lime 7 .
Carbonate of lime .
Animal matter 8 .
100 , 4 .
THE RHINOCEROS .
The urine of this animal is exceedingly turbid at the time it is voided , and when allowed to remain at rest , deposits a very large proportion of sediment , which consists of carbonate of lime , with small portions of phosphate of lime and animal matter .
5THE DOG .
A large calculus from the bladder of a dog twenty years old , weighing sixteen ounces , was extremely hard , and of a gray colour ; when cut through , it exhibited a nucleus about the size of a hazel nut , partly made up of concentric layers of phosphate of lime , and partly of crystals of the ammoniacomagnesian phosphate .
The part of the stone surrounding the nucleus consisted of Phosphate of lime 64 .
Ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate so .
Animal matter 6 .
100 .
Sand taken from a dog , s bladder was of a gray colour , and contained lh ha Carbonate of it .
me .
O Phosphateof lime S o.100 .
6.:THE HOG .
A calculus from the bladder of this animal weighed nineteen : drachms ; it was of a pale gray colour inclining to white , and so hard that it was with difficulty cut through .
Its internal structure was uniform , and there was no appearance of a nucleus .
It was composed of Carbonate of lime go .
Animal matter o. 100 .
7 .
THE RABBIT .
A calculus from the rabbit 's bladder weighing four drachms , was of a dark gray colour , and appeared as if composed of several smaller calculi .
It consisted of Phosphate of lime 39 Carbonate of lime 42 .
Animal matter 19 10OOeSECTION VI .
General Inferences .
It appears from the preceding observations , that calculi formed in the kidnies , and immediately voided , are almost always composed of uric acid ; and that the phosphates are very frequent ingredients in calculi of the bladder , more especially in those , which , from their situation , have been exposed to a continual current of urine : they also uniformly are deposited upon extraneous substances introduced into the bladder , but appear never to form small kidney calculi .
In what is commonly called a fit of the gravel , a small uric calculus is formed in the kidney , and passes along the ureter into the bladder .
It is found from observation , that for some time after a stone has passed from the kidney , the urine is generally unusually loaded with uric acid , and deposits that substance upon the nucleus now in the bladder .
When this period , which is longer or shorter in different individuals , has elapsed , the subsequent addition to the calculus consists principally of the phosphates .
Where the disposition therefore to form uric acid in the kidnies is very great and permanent , the calculus found in the bladder is principally composed of uric acid ; but where this disposition is weak and of short duration , the nucleus only is uric acid , and the bulk of the stone is composed of the phosphates .
Where the increased secretion of uric acid returns at intervals , the calculus is composed of alternate layers of uric acid and the phosphates .
Other small calculi being formed in the kidney , make their way into the bladder , and afford fresh nuclei ; so that several calculi are sometimes found in the same bladder , and their composition is usually nearly the same .
In other cases it happens , that a constart increased secretion of uric acid is going on from the kidnies , only in small quantity , which will be more uniformly mixed with the phosphates deposited in the bladder , and where the uric acid predominates , the species of calculus denominated improperly , urate of ammonia , will be produced . ?
287 the Diferences VWe are entirely ignorant of the cause of the formation of the oxalate of lime , or mulberry calcul.s .
I have frequtently looked for oxalate of lime in the urine of calculous patients , but have never been able to detect it , and as it does not exist in healthy urine , it must be regarded as a morbid secretion .
Its mode of formation seems to resemble that of uric acid , since small kidney calculi , composed of oxalate of lime , have in a few instances been voided ; and in these cases , as far as my own enquiries go , the persons have been much less liable to a return of the complaint , than where uric calculi have been voided .
In some rare instances we meet with calculi of the bladder which are destitute of uric acid , and of oxalate of lime , the nucleus being composed of a little loosely agglutinated ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , and the whole calculus consisting of that substance , with variable portions of phosphate of limne : in two cases I have met with calculi of this kind , composed of the triple phosphate only : they seem to be entirely formed in the bladder .
Having taken this short view of the formation of calculi , I shall now enquire into the action of solvents , employed either with a view of effecting their solution , or of preventing their:ormation and increase .
Solvents are of two kinds .
i. Alkaline .
2 .
Acid , In the exhibition of these , the practitioner is usually guided by the chemical composition of the calculous matter voided by urine .
The different kinds of gravel voided by persons labouring under calculous complaints1 , may be classed in two divisions , Uric acid , either in a pure state , or with a 'very small proportion of the phosphates .
2 ' .
The phosphates , either pure , or with a small proportion of uric acid .
The first species , which generally appears in the.form of minute crystalline grains , of a reddislh brown colour , or of an impalpable brown powder , is either entirely soluble in pure alkaline solutions , not emitting an .
amnmoniacal odour , in which case it consists of pure uric acid : or it does emit an ammoniacal odour , and is not entirely soluble , in which case it contains the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia .
When this substance is observed in the urine , the alkalies are recommended .
They are exhibited either in a pure state , or as carbonates , and in each instance the uric sediment generally diminishes rapidly , and during the continued use of alkaline medicines , occasionally disappears altogether .
It however frequently happens that the matter voided , is not diminished in quantity by the use of alkalies , but that its form and composition are altered , and that it assumes the appearance of a gray powder , and is composed of uric acid with variable portions of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate .
From these facts therefore , it cannot be doubted that the internal : exhibition of alkalies , often prevents the formation of uricacid , and hence must likewise prevent the increase of a calculus in the bladder , as far at least as uric acid is concerned ; but it has also been supposed that the alkalies are capable of acting upon the stone itself , and even of effecting its complete solution .
It is true that if we immerse a calculus , composed of uric acid , in a dilute solution of caustic alkali , that it will be slowly acted upon , and after some time entirely dissolved .
If however we atetnd to what would take.p : in the body , we shall find the circumstances very dirfrent .
That alkaline carbonates and subh^arbonates exert no action upon uric acid I consider to be completely established , both by the experiments of several eminent chemists , and those I have myself made upon the subject ; and as there is at all times a quantity of uncombined acid in the urine , it follows that al.though the alcali may arrive at the kidnies in its pure state , it will there unite with the uncombined acid , and be : rendered incapable of exerting any action upon the calculus in the bladder .
Besides phosphoric acid , the urine always contains a quantity of uncombined carbonic acid ; this is proved by placing a quantity of recently voided urine under the receiver of an air pump ; during the exhaustion , a large quantity of carbonic acid gas makes its escape : and when urine is distilled at very low temperatures , carbonic acid gas is given off : and also , when lime water is poured into urine , a precipitate:appears , consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime .
Lime water , on account of the insoluble compounds which lime forms with carbonic , and phosphoric acids , is even more objectionable as a solvent , than the alkalies .
It may however be said , that if these means prevent the increase of a calculus , material relief is afforded to the patient .
How far the exhibition of alkaline remedies can be recammended upon these grounds , will appear , when the circum.stances which attend the formation of the second species:of calculous sediment or deposition in the urine , are considered .
The ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate appears under two forms : : it is either voided in a solid state , or in solution .
In the former case it bears a good deal of resemblance to a white sand d is frequenty mixed !
ithvariabt ~propotio o6f phosphate of lime .
In thet latter itmkes its appaane afte the rii has re mained un disturbed ; fo sme hours in an open essel , generallyt in the form of a finepelle , o of crystallin'e lamint , a which wh ei collected and dried bear some re'semblan e to boracic acid.:Its putting onh this-form is maccounted fo , r , from its ibeing heim ' in 'lolutim in the first :ninstanee by carbonic 'acid , and ' a t1his , flies of , the : triple salt makes itsappearancee -I : a portio of the urilne be preserved in a phial closely : stopped , the:car nic atid cannot ecape and : consequently no phosphateiss observed to separate : There is also a quantity of phosphoric:aidrent , whtich keepsi anothe portion of the ammoniacoma1gnesian phosphate , and also tsome lime ( in the : ste : of -uper phosphate of lime ) in solution .
' tit:i th erefore bvi ous , thatwhenever the uin e is eprived Of a paion of theaid ' which isatural t , the dpsition of the : triplHepBhshate , and -phosphte of lime , ore readily takes place:this is .
ehfcted by the : exhibition of the -akalies .
It may therefore be asserted , t iat although alkaIine medicines oft en te dimtiish the quantity of uric id , andthUs t( prvent the addition of that substanee in its-pue state , to a ^aitiu : m-n the bladder ; they favour thef depositionf of -e phosphates .
' aIt:canotbe:doubted that the alkalies teac there , since im cases where large doses of sub-carbonate of ptsh hEave ' b : even exhibited , have seen evidenttraces-of i:t in the Whetre'teph osphates only 'are voided , it has been p , ncccvi , t ! .
i-I posed to dissolve the calculus by the exhibition of acids , and more especially the muriatic acid .
During the use of the muriatic acid , the osphahtes are either diminished or disappear altogether ; and even soineti mes the urine acquires an additional acidity : a solution of that part of the calculus which consists of the phosphates might therefore be expected ; but even then the nucleus of uric acid would remain , and thus a great deal of time would be lost without any permanent advantage .
I have also occasionally remarked , that during the use of acids , the uric acid re-appears , and even seems to be augmented in quantity .
Attempts have been made at different times to effect the5 solution of calculi , by the injection of solvents into the bladder .
This subject has been more lately revived by FOURCROY and VAUQUELIN , who , in their paper on the composition of calculi , lay down rules for its practice .
Independent , however , of the impossibility of ascertaining the composition of the calculus with sufficient accuracy , it is obvious , that were the composition of the surface of the calculus known , the frequent introduction of an instrument into the bladder , and the long continuance of the process which would be necessary , even where the calculi are small , are insurmountable objections ; and whenever this mode of treatment has been adopted , it has speedily been relinquished , as it always aggravates the sufferings of the patient .
It has been shown that in the majority of cases , the nuclei of calculi originate in the kidnies , and that of these nuclei by far the greater number consist of uric acid ; the good effects therefore so frequently observed during the use of an alkali , arise , not from any actual solution of calculous matter , but from the power which it possesses of diminishing the secretion of uric acid , and thus preventing the enlargement of the calculus , so that , while of a very small form , it may be voided by the urethra .
ii X

