2oO Messrs. T. Andrews and C. R. Andrews .
[ Apr oJJR " Microscopic Effects of Stress on Platinum .
" By Thomas !
Andrews , F.R.S. , F.C.S. , and Charles Reginald Andrews Received April 23 , \#151 ; Read May 15 , 1902 .
[ PlATE 4 .
] The microscopic effects of stress on platinum do not appear to have i been studied .
An ingot of pure platinum was therefore prepared , and from this a portion was accurately machined in the form of a cube 0-30 inch square , which was afterwards carefully microscopically j polished , and then subjected to compressive stress in the testing i machine .
'jM Prior to the application of stress , and for comparative purposes , a polished face of the platinum cube was microscopically examined , but an even polished surface only was observed .
A force producing a I compression of 10 per cent , on the total height of the cube was then applied , and microscopic observations were taken at high magnifica- I tions of the effects of the stress on the micro-crystalline structure of the platinum cube .
The particulars of the stress applied are given on Table I. " m Table I.\#151 ; Compressive Stress applied to Platinum Cube .
L i Cross- section .
Dimensions , inches .
\#151 ; Area .
Square inches .
Height before test .
Inches .
j Stress required to compress sample 10 per cent , of its original height .
Tons per square inch .
Platinum cube .
, 0-30x0*29 0 -087 1 0-30 j 12 *82 The polisl^ed side of the cube upon which the high-power microscopic examination was made was the one in line , or in parallel , with the direction of the compressive force .
The results observed were very interesting , and confirm Professor Ewing 's and Mr. Rosenhain 's observations on the peculiar manner in which the crystalline structure of .
a niass of metal becomes altered when under stress.* j On comparing the appearance of the platinum after having been ^tressed with its appearance before the application of stress , it was found that many of the individual large or primary crystal grains forming the mass had , under the influence of the strain , developed innumerable fine " stress bands " or " slip bands , " or indications - of crystalline slip .
The main lines of disruption were noticed in many instances to roughly approximate to an angle of about 45 ' to the * Bakerian Lecture , 1899 , ' Phil ; Trans. , ' A , vol. 193 , 1900 , p. 353 .
Icroseopic Effects of Compression Stress on Platinum , showing Crystalline Slip , as seen [ in Section .
Magnification 120 diameters .
Yertical illumination .
Metal compressed 10 per cent. Arrow indicates direction of compressiYe force .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
1 * Magnification 120 diameters .
Magnification 250 diameters .
Microscopic Effects of Compression Stress on Platinum , showing Crystalline Slip , as seen in Section .
Yertical illumination* Metal compressed 10 per cent* Arrow indicates direction of compressive force .
1902 .
] Microscopic Effects of Stress on Platinum .
Hne of the compressive force on the crystal sectional facets .
Between these larger indications of crystalline slip were observed a number of extremely fine lines , indicative of the nature of the crystalline slip ; many of these ran more or less in parallel lines m each mdividua primary crystal or crystal grain , the direction of the orientation or fine of the normal cleavage ) of each primary crystal gram apparently influencing the direction of the " slip bands , " as seen m section Owing to the varied orientation of the different crystals in the mass of the platinum , * the lines of cleavage as indicated by the minute " slip bands , " were often seen at varied angles to the line of the St These8 experiments have also confirmed the observations of Professor Ewing and others , that stress alone , without etching , sometimes renders manifest the lines of intercrystalline junction of the large or nrimary crystal grains of a stressed metal , providing that the stress is of sufficient intensity .
This will be seen on reference to the accompanying illustrations , Plate 4 .
The General appearance of the disintegration of the large or primary crystal grains , produced by the pressure , on the pure platinum cube , was the apparent breaking up of the crystalline structure of the metallic mass , as seen in section , roughly diagonally to the line of the compressive force .
The area enclosed by the mam lines of disruption roughly approximating to the size of the large primary crystal grains .
The distances between the extremely fine lines , or " slip bands , appeared roughly to coincide proportionately with the size of the secondary or most minute crystals forming the mass , the finer s ip bands " appearing to indicate the crystalline slip which had taken place along the facets of the smaller or secondary crystals , he direction , however , of the main lines of the crystalline disruption did not appear always to coincide with the intercrystalline facet junctions o the large or primary crystal grains .
The lines of least resistance , or greatest crystalline slip , seemed chiefly to develop at an approximate angle of about 45 degrees to the pressure line , as previously mentioned ; but the line of greatest weakness in the mass structure of the metal was not always at that angle with the line of the disruptive force .
The previous description generally and approximately indicates the effect observed , but the breaking up of the crystalline structure of the metal appeared to be subject to modifications according to vanec internal or external conditions .
* See " Micro-crystalline Structure of Platinum , " by Thomas Andrews , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 69 , March 21 , 1902 , No. 457 , p. 433 ; also " Microscopic Structure of Gold and Gold Alloys , " by Thomas Andrews , ' Engineering , September 30 , October 28 , December 9 , 1898 ; also " Micro-metallography of Iron , by Thomas Andrews , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' yoI .
58 , 1895 .
Mr. W. Bosenhain .
[ May 1 The authors hope that these experiments may prove of use in afford ing an indication of the comparative behaviour of this " apio-To-KpaMa " or noblest metal platinum , with the behaviour of the constructive metals , copper , nickel , iron and steel , when under the influence of stress ; and the experiments have also shown that the microscopic in fluences of stress in the heavy metal platinum are analogous to those * which have been observed in metals of lower specific gravity .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig- 1 .
-Microscopic Effects of Compression Stress on Platinum , showing Crystal* line Slip , as seen in Section .
Magnification 120 diameters .
Vertical illumination .
Metal compressed 10 per cent. Arrow indicates direo-tion of compressive force .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Microscopic Effects of Compression Stress on Platinum , showing Crystal* line Slip , as seen in Section .
Magnification 120 diameters .
Vertical illumination .
Metal compressed 10 per cent. Arrow indicates direc* tion of compressive force .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Same as fig. 2 , but magnified 250 diameters .
" A Note on the Eecrystallisation of Platinum .
" By Walter Eosenhain , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , B.C.E. ( Melbourne ) .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.E.S. Eeceived May 1 , \#151 ; Bead .
May 15 , 1902 .
In a recent paper* Professor Ewing and the present author have described phenomena of recrystallisation in a number of metals , such as lead , tin , zinc , and cadmium , at temperatures well below the melting points of those metals .
I have recently observed phenomena which appear to me to be of a very similar nature in the case of platinum .
It is a well-known fact that a prolonged exposure to a high temperature renders platinum brittle , and that the surface of such platinum , , when it has been exposed to flame , shows markings " resembling the-appearance of galvanised iron .
" f This phenomenon has generally been ascribed to the action of carbon , and by one author specifically to the action of acetylene . !
Having studied the phenomena closely with the-aid of the microscope , I do not find this view entirely confirmed .
In the first place , on examining the surface of the " changed " ' platinum with the microscope , it is seen to show a pattern which is .
* " , On the Crystalline Structure of Metals , " second paper , * Phil. Trans. , ' A , .
1900 , vol. 195 , pp. 279\#151 ; 301 .
t " The Action of the Acetylene Flame on Platinum , " J. J. Redwood , ' Soc* Cliem .
Industry Journ. , ' vol. 17 , p. 1107 j also 'Zeitschrift fur Analyt .
Chem. , ' 1901 , heft 6 , p. 411 .

