I. " On the Volumetric Relations of Ozone and the Action of the Electrical Discharge on Oxygen and other Gases .
" By THOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. , F.R.S. , and P. G. TAIT , Esq. , M.A. Received February 20 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the full details of the authors ' experiments on the volumetric changes which occur in the formation of ozone .
From three distinct series of experiments , performed by different methods , they show that when ozone is formed from pure oxygen by the action of the electrical discharge , a condensation takes place , as had already been announced in a former Note published in the ' Proceedings .
' But the condensation is much greater than the earlier experiments of the authors on the expansion by heat of electrolytic ozone had indicated .
It is , in fact , so great , that if the allotropic view of the constitution of ozone be correct , the density of that body , as compared with oxygen , would be represented by a number corresponding to the density of a solid or liquid rather than that of a gaseous substance .
This conclusion follows necessarily from the authors ' experiments , unless it be assumed that when ozone comes into contact with such substances as iodine , or a solution of iodide of potassium , one portion of it is changed back into common oxygen , while the remainder enters into combination , and that these portions are so related to one another , that the expansion due to the one is exactly equal to the contraction arising from the other .
For the details of the experiments and of the methods of investigation employed , reference must be made to the original paper .
The second part of the communication is devoted to the action of the silent discharge and of the electrical spark on other gases .
Hydrogen and nitrogen undergo no change of volume when exposed to the action of either form of discharge .
Cyanogen is readily decomposed by the spark , but presents so great a resistance to the passage of electricity , that the action of the silent discharge can scarcely be observed .
Protoxide of nitrogen is readily attacked by both forms of discharge , with increase of volume and formation of nitrogen and hyponitric acid .
Deutoxide of nitrogen exhibits the remarkable example of a gas which , under the action either of the silent discharge or of the spark , unldergoes , like oxygen , a diminution of volume .
It also is resolved into nitrogen and hyponitric acid .
Carbonic oxide has given results of great interest ; but the nature of the reaction has been only partially investigated .
The silent discharge decomposes this gas with production of a substance of a bronze colour on the positive wire .
The spark acts differenltly , destroying , as in the case of oxygen , the greater part of the contraction produced by the silent discharge .
The authors are engaged in the further prosecution of this inquiry .

