On the Electro-magnetic Properties of metalliferous Veins in the Mines of Cornwall .
By Robert Were Fox , of Falmouth .
Communicated by the President .
Read June 10 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 399 .
] The author having been led from theory to entertain the belief that a connexion existed between electric action in the interior of the earth , and the arrangement of metalliferous veins , and also the progressive increase of temperature in the strata of the earth as we descend from the surface , proceeded to the verification of this opinion by experiment .
His first trial was unsuccessful ; but in the second he obtained decisive evidence of considerable electrical action in the mine of Huel Jewel in Cornwall .
His apparatus consisted of small plates of sheet copper , which were fixed in contact with one in the veins by copper nails , or else wedged closely against theri with wooden props stretched across the galleries .
Between two of these plates at different stations , a communication was made by means of copper wire one twentieth of an inch in diameter , which included a galvanometer in its circuit .
In some instances , 300 fathoms of copper wire were employed .
The intensity of the electric currents was found to differ considerably in different places ; it was generally greater in proportion to the greater abundance of copper ore in the veins , and in some degree also to the depth of the stations .
Hence the discovery of the author seems likely to be of practical utility to the miner in discovering the relative quantity of ore in veins , and the directions in which it most abounds .
The electricity thus perpetually in action in mines does not appear to be influenced by the presence of the workmen and candles , or even by the explosion of gunpowder in blasting .
The author 's experiments enable him to give a table of the relative powers of conducting galvanic electricity possessed by various metalliferous minerals .
This power , he remarks , appears to bear no obvious relation to any of the electrical or other physical properties of the metals themselves , when in a proper state , or to the proportions in which they exist in combination .
He proceeds to point out various facts relative to the position of veins , and the arrangement of their contents , which he thinks are irreconcilable with any of the hypotheses that have been devised to explain their origin .
He observes that ores which conduct electricity have generally some conducting substances interposed in the veins between them and the surface ; a structure that appears to bear a striking analogy to the ordinary -galvanic combinations .
He is of opinion that the intensities both of heat and of electricity , and consequently of magnetism , increase in proportion to the depths of the strata under the surface of the earth ; that they have an intimate connexion with one another ; and that the discovery of electrical currents in various and frequently opposite directions , in different parts of the same mine , may perhaps , hereafter , afford a clue to explain the declination and variation of the magnetic needle .

