On the Power of penetrating into Space by Telescopes ; with a comparative Determination of the Extent of that Power in natural Vision , and in Telescopes of various Sizes and Constructions ; illustrated by select Observations .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read Nov. 21 , 1799 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 49 .
] It has long been observed that the power of distinguishing objects at great distances depends not only on the magnifying power applied to the telescope through which they are viewed , but also on the quantity of light emitted by the object , and collected and conveyed to the eye by means of the instrument .
The superiority of telescopes with large apertures must hence appear obvious ; and we have long witnessed the essential improvements made in this respect by Dr. Herschel , which have enabled him to extend his view into the firmament to distances , the bare mention of which is sufficient to astonish a mind unaccustomed to investigations of this nature .
That it is principally the increased quantity of light that enables us to view luminous objects at great distances will appear manifest if we reflect that , since the density of light decreases in the ratio of the squares of the distances of the objects emitting the light , it follows that an object may be removed to distances at which its light will be so rarefied as to produce no longer any sensation upon the optic nerve : that if an optical instrument be used with an object-glass of a larger diameter than the pupil of the eye , the quantity of light collected by this means in the eye will be greater in proportion to the greater extent of the object-glass compared with that of the pupil : and that hence the most distant star that can be seen with the naked eye , if it be viewed through a tube with an object-glass of twice the diameter of the pupil , it will without any magnifying power be visible at a distance four times greater than that at which the naked eye ceased to perceive it .
Dr. Herschel many years ago adverted to this circumstance , when in his paper on the Construction of the Heavens , he introduced what he then figuratively called his sounding line , to which he now substitutes the appellation of the power of penetrating into space .
And in the present paper he fully investigates a comparative determination of the extent of that power in natural vision , and in telescopes of various sizes and constructions ; all which he illustrates by a number of select and curious observations .
In the first part of the paper he establishes the difference between magnifying and penetrating powers ; he rejects some vague terms in common acceptance , to which he substitutes algebraic symbols and such accurate definitions as enable him to proceed upon solid ground .
And after distinguishing between self-luminous objects and those which shine by a reflected light , and likewise noticing those whose brightness is the effect of a considerable depth of luminous matter , he shows that these differences noways affect the present inquiry ; since in all these several bodies , it is the quantity of light emitted by their surfaces which becomes the object of our perception .
As the same body , however , may be differently luminous in different parts of its surface , he exhibits a formula by which the aggregate brightness of a body may be estimated .
And he closes this part with an examination of the opinion maintained by Lambert in his SystZeme du Monde , where he says that an object is equally bright at all distances , and that the sun at the distance of Saturn , or still further from us , would be as bright as it is in its present situation .
This assertion taken in the general sense in which it is here expressed , he proves to be a palpable contradiction ; and only admits it in as far as the celebrated author may mean the intrinsic brightness of a body , which applies to its surface diminished by distance , and not the absolute brightness of the whole .
In the next section the author endeavours to ascertain the general extent of vision with the naked eye .
As to those bodies which shine with a reflected light , he asserts that none have yet been seen more distant than the Georgian planet : admitting this as the maximum , it must after all excite our admiration that borrowed light should be perceptible to our naked eye at the distance of no less than eighteen hundred millions of miles ; especially if we consider that the light of the sun on that planet is above 368 times less intense than it is on our earth , and that probably two thirds of that diminished light is absorbed by the planet .
The range of natural vision , with respect to self-luminous objects , is incomparably more extended .
Passing over the intermediate steps by which our author arrives at his conclusions , we shall simply mention his inference that no single star above nine or at most ten times more distant than Sirius can possibly be perceived by the naked eye ; admitting , however , that an accumulation of stars will be perceptible at a far greater distance .
From the power of penetrating into space by naked vision , our author proceeds to that of telescopes .
Here he first calculates , by a method recommended by Mr. Bouguer , the quantity of light absorbed and dissipated by the reflection of the mirror , and refraction of the eye-glasses ; and he finds that a common Newtonian with three lenses loses about -Tths of the whole light it receives , and that in a telescope of his own construction with two lenses this loss amounts to somewhat less than -4-ths .
The Doctor now enters into a full investigation of the penetrating power of his several telescopes under all the various circumstances he could devise , and illustrates the whole by a great number of observations , which serve to confirm the inferences deduced by him .
Here we learn that the penetrating power of his 20-feet reflector , applied to a single star , may extend as far as 612 times the distance of Sirius , and also that his large telescope , with a penetrating power of 192 , will show a single star of the 1342nd magnitude .
In the next sections he shows that the penetrating and magnifying powers , so far from assisting each other , will often prove reciprocally detrimental , which he thinks may be explained by admitting that while the light collected is employed in magnifying an object , it cannot be exerted in giving penetrating power , to which perhaps ought to be added the detrimental effect of the magnifying power on the heterogeneous ingredients floating in the atmosphere .
Whatever be the cause , the fact is proved by various observations .
Lastly , he shows that as we must not limit our vision within the sphere of the single stars , we must call the united lustre of the sidereal system to our aid in stretching forward into space .
Supposing one of these clusters of 5000 stars to be at one of those immense distances to which only a 40-feet reflector can reach , he calculates that this distance will exceed at least 300,000 times that of the most remote fixed star visible to the naked eye .
He concludes with a rough calculation how much time it would take to sweep the heavens with a penetrating power of such an immense extent ; and finds that in this climate , with his 40-feet reflector , with a magnifying power of 1000 , this operation for the whole sphere would take no less than 811 years .

