Contributions to the Fossil Florca of -North Greenland , being a Description of the Plants collected by llr .
EDWARD WIHYMPER dZring the Snmmer of 1867 .
By Professor OSWALD HEER .
Comnmunicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 16 , -Reaed iMarch 11 , 1869 .
General Remarics .
I. THE greater part of the fossil plants which have been broug'ht from Arctic regions have come from North Greenland .
Atanekerdluk ( lat. 70 ?
N. ) is the principal locality , and there the remains of vegetable organisms are found in such profusion , that we are able , to some extent , to restore the ancient flora of North Greenland , and deduce most important conclusions as to the former physiognomy and the climate of this high northern region .
The fossil plants which were brought home by M'CLINTOCK , INGLEFIELD , and COLOMB , and deposited in Dublin and London , were found at this locality , as well as the very rich collection made by Mr. OLRIK , formerly Inspector of North Greenland , which is now to be found at Copenhagen .
These materials , on examination , were found to contain 105 species of plants .
Of some , the leaves , fruits , and seeds were observed , so that an absolute determination of their species was rendered possible ; while of others merely the leaves , and of these at times only fragments , were discoverable .
Of these latter accordingly the identification cannot be considered as final .
It became therefore a matter of great importance to procure additional specimens from this locality , so as to increase our knowledge of the Arctic Fossil Flora , and also to ascertain whether similar fossils were of universal occurrence in the various lignite deposits of North Greenland .
It was hoped , too , that remains of Maammalia might be found in the coal .
The interest attached to these questions induced Mr. ROBERT -I .
SCOTT to propose the plan of an Expedition to North Greenland , to be carried out by means of funds furnished by the British Association .
That body at the Nottingham Meeting voted a sum of money for the purpose , which was subsequently most liberally augmented by the Government-Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
Circumstances rendered it impossible for Mr. SCOTT to carry out his idea of visiting Greenland himself , and Mr. ED WARD WIIYMIPER , who had previously made arrangements for travelling in North Greenland , undertook to obtain as good a collection of fossils from Atanekerdluk as possible , and to examine as many other localities as his time might permit .
Mr. WII ?
YMPER took with him Mr. ROBERT BROWN , F.R.G.S. , as collector .
Mr. WT YMPER passed some time at Copenhagen , preparing himself for his undertaking , and sailed from that port in the spring of 1867 .
He arrived at the Colony of Jakobshavn in Greenland on the 16th of June , and on the morning of the 20th of August he arrived at Ritenbenk with Mr. BROWN , and with a number of natives who were engaged as workmen .
I quote from Mr. Wn-HYMPER'S eport , presented to the British Association at Norwich* , the portions which relate to the Geology of the district .
" We started [ from Ritenbenk ] at 10.30 P.M. , and our course soon toolk us into the midst of the Tossukatek ice-stream , a great assemblage of icebergs large and small , which were given off from a glacier whose summit we could just see on the horizon .
This ice-stream wTas remarkable for the enormous number of icebergs it contained , and was also notable for the small amount of moraine matter upon them .
Really large blocks of rock we did not see , and those of a yard in diameter were rare ; but there was abundance of small stones , of grit , and of sand upon the bergs .
There is no doubt that beneath the course of the Tossukatek ice-stream , as below all otherst , there are conglomerate strata in course of formation , which cannot now be seen , but which may possibly be presented to the view of future travellers .
" Shortly after passing through this ice-stream we arrived at the small settlement of Sakkak+ .
This place stands by the water 's edge at the entiance of a great valley running into the heart of the Noursoak peninsula .
A considerable river that flows down this valley falls into the sea a little to the northi of the settlemenelt , and appears to form the boundary line of the granite districts which we were just quitting , and the trap formation upon which we were just entering .
" A solitary Danish man lives at this place , and has done so for twenty-four years .
He says that the glaciers which can be seen from his house , both on the Noursoak peninsula and upon Disco Island , are steadily increasing ; so much so that their progress can be noted every year .
This statement coincides with the observation of Sir C. GIESECKE nearly sixty years ago .
The latter says ?
, speaking of the route to Umenak , formerly they drove generally over Gamile Eitenbenk 11 , but for sever al years the 'road has become impassable in consequence of the ' iceblink ' ?
by which the whole continent there is covered .
The same will take place with the new road at present in use .
' The glaciers to the south were , however , as far as I observed them , decidedly shrilnking .
" At Sakkak we were joined by a native guide for Atanekerdluk , named GUDEMANN , and also by two others who volunteered their services .
We continued our journey after a brief halt , and arrived at our destination shortly after 1 A.M. on August the 22nd .
" The name Atanekerdluk is applied by the natives to a basaltic peninsula about half a mile in length , connected with the mainland by a sandy neck which is apparently covered by the sea at spring-tides .
A bay with a sandy beach stretches about two miles to the south , and at its further extremity there is another promontory , of columnar basalt , named Imnarsoit .
tBetween these two promontories , and indeed along the whole of the shore from the above-mentioned valley at Sakkak to the most northern point of the Noursoak peninsula , mountains rise from the water 's edge , and attain in some places a height of 5000 to 6000 feet .
Behind the peninsula of Atanekerdluk they do not , however , attain a height greater than 3600 or 3800 feet .
They are cut up by numerous small valleys and ravines .
" The position of Atanekerdluk is indicated at a great distance by means of three mountain-peaks of symmetrical form .
The fossil bed is one-third way up the most northern of these , and between it and the central one .
Under the guidance of GUDEMANN we started for it at mid-day on the 22nd .
The sides of the hill on which it is situate ( an outlying buttress of the mountain already mentioned ) were of considerable steepness , and channelled in many places by small streams .
It was mainly composed of sand and of shales , and was strewn with disintegrated fragments of hardened clays , sandstones , and basalt .
The most prominent features were the dykes of trap which appeared in numerous places ; sometimes as regular in form as built walls , and in others as picturesque as Rhine castles .
Five , if not six , of these dykes appeared at different places in the section of the coast between the headlands of Atanekerdluk and Imnarsoit .
" It has been already mentioned that this locality had been frequently visited* before 1867 for the sake of its fossil deposit .
This was evident by numerous fragments that we found in the course of our ascent , which had been dropped by others in descending , and it seemed at first as if the deposit was very extensive .
We found it in fact to be confined within narrow limits .
It did not appear to extend a greater length than 400 feet , with a maximum depth of 150 feet .
In most places the portion exposed was nothing more than a seam a few feet in depth .
It was on a shelf of the hill at the height of 1175 feett ; the southern end was exposed on the north side of the most prominent of the ravines already referred to .
The length of the deposit , that is to say the face of the hill on which it was found , fronted the Waigat , due west ( magnetic ) .
" I took from England , besides hammers , picks , and shovels , all the necessaries for blasting ; but these latter were unnecessary .
The seam was for the most part enclosed by sand , and specimens were obtained with ease .
After a hard day 's work we returned to our camp , in a ruined native house by the shore .
It froze sharply during the night .
On the 23rd we resumed work , and by the close of the day had made a large collection of good specimens .
It was my endeavour to select , as far as possible , perfect specimens of individual species , rather than fine slabs containing numerous species .
Unfortunately a large number of the finest specimens were irremediably smashed in transit down the hill ; this was due much more to the brittleness of the specimens and the steepness of the descent than to carelessness .
The natives indeed worked admirably .
" On the 24th we finished our work at this locality .
A trench had been dug by this time twenty feet in length , to a depth of five feet , completely through the seam , and the section showed : Feet .
In .
1 .
Stratum of fine sand , light grey colour ... . .
17 deep 2 .
, , , , similar to No. 1 , darker colour ... .
8 3 .
, , , fine white sand ... ... ... .
8 4 .
, , , similar to No. 2 ... ... ... 9 5 .
, , , , , , No. 3 ... ... ... 6 6 .
, , , , yellow sand .
" The impressions of leaves were found for the most part in stratum No. 1 , or upon the surface .
They were also obtained from Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 , but I believe not lower .
Those found in the uppermost and upon the surface were ordinarily in hard clay , red in colour , due to oxide of iron .
These did not suffer much by transportation ; but the surface had apparently undergone a careful scrutiny , and few very perfect specimens were obtained from it .
The impressions in the softer and more brittle shales were obtained some depth below the surface ; these yielded the best specimens , but they suffered greatly in transit .
Those found at the greatest depth were almost invariably in lumps of hard clay that fractured irregularly ; these differed from the others in being of an iron-grey colour .
They have reddened since they have been exposed to the atmosphere .
The trench was dug about mid-way between the extremes of the deposit , and examination at other points showed a similar arrangement .
The hill at this part was mainly composed of sand , enclosing numerous thin seam-is of brittle indurated clay , red in colour , containing a good deal of iron , and of moderately fine-grained sandstones .
" We were unable to find the ' perfect stem , standing 4 feet out of the side of the hill , ' spoken of by Captain INGLEFIELD ' , and it was unknown to the natives .
It was said to have stood on the edge of a precipice in the ravine on the south of the hill , and it has probably been buried in a fall that appears to have taken place not very long ago .
In the sides of this ravine , both above and below the leaf-deposit , numerous beds of lignite are exposed , at least one being of considerable thickness .
I brought home from this bed a block 1 foot 9 inches in thickness , a portion of which has been analyzed in the laboratory of Mr. T. W. KEATES of Chatham Place , with the following results:'Private Journal of Captain E. A. INGLrEEFIELD , quoted in " 1 A Report on the Miocene Flora of North Greenland , by Professor 0 .
HEER , " 1866 .
Journ , Royal Dublin Soc. vol. v. p. 81 .
'Specific gravity ... 1'369 Gaseous and volatile matter. .
5 454 Moisture ... ... ... .
75 46-20 Sulphur ... ... ... ... .
55 Ck Fixed carbon. .
47-75 ( Ash ... . .
550 53-25 100'00 The lignite contains a trace of bitumen ; the coke is non-caking , and of little use .
" In this lignite we found small pieces of amber , the largest being about the size of a common pea .
We also found amber , but in still smaller fragments , in the leaf-deposit itself .
It was nowhere abundant .
" The scantiness of the living vegetation at Atanekerdluk offered a marked contrast to the luxuriance displayed in the leaf-deposit .
Although this was the sunny side of the Waigat Strait and the hills were completely free from snow , vegetation was as meagre as upon Disco Island itself .
The drifting of the sand accounts for this doubtless to some extent .
The largest dead wood measured less than an inch and a half in diameter , and the largest growing wood less than an inch .
" The most remarkable natural object at Atanekerdluk is a trap pinnacle * .
The surrounding soil has been removed , leaving this portion of a former dyke standing perfectly isolated .
Its height is about eighty feet .
" Mr. BROWN furnishes the following particulars as to the stratification of the rockst .
" General stratification of the beds at Atanelcerdlukc.-A stream called Ekadluk ( probably connected with the name of the place ) flows into the Waigat Strait here and exposes a section nearly to the summit of the cliff .
This shows a series of beds dipping at an acute angle at various degrees to S. , with a general strike E. , all lying in general conformably on each other .
These strata are divided into many distinct beds of sandstone , conglomerate gritty sandstone , shales ( clayey , splintery , and fissile ) , and all alternating with each other , and containing various seams of lignitic coal ; and towards the summit of the section thin cherty ironstone , with which you are most familiar as the matrix of the fossils .
This ' ironstone ' I look upon merely as of the nature of a shale , but owing its hardness and cuboidal fracture to being so impregnated with oxide ( ?
) of iron ; accordingly we find it taking the place of a shale and alternating with the sandstones and shales topping , and underlying the coal-beds shown in this section .
" All of these beds ( sandstones , shales , &amp;c. ) contain vegetable fossil impressions to a greater or less extent , but owing to their softness none of them here have retained them .
except the ironstone shales already referred to , and these impressions are only seen as indistinct charred looking blackenings .
The greatest thickness of these sandstones is about 20 feet , and the beds of splintery shales occasionally reach that thickness , down to a thinness of a few inches .
The fossil layers ( the ironstone shale ) never exceed from a few inches to 2 feet in thickness .
The coal , in general , rested on and was overtopped by shales , but sometimes on shales , and was overtopped by sandstone , and vice versed , indeed as in our Carboniferous formation , and in the Pliocene coal-fields which I examined in Washington Territory , U.S. It varied in thickness from a few inches to 2 feet , though sometimes I found shaly slaty beds partaking of a lignitic character which reached to the thickness of 4 feet .
These beds consisted of a great number ; I have enuminerated between one and two hundred layers and beds , one alternating with another , and reaching to the height of some 1200 feet above the sea .
" Intersecting these beds , and crossing the bed of the stream , and running about N.W. and S.E. , are three trap 'dykes ' which may be styled A , B , and C. Where they come in contact with the strata I did not notice much contortion and scarcely any metamorphosis , from which we might perhaps infer that the traps here and the sedimentary beds are not of the same geological age .
( ?
) However , it ought to be mentioned that though these dykes in some cases cut diagonally through the sandstones , they did not seem to be metamorphosed ; and as confirmatory of the query I have advanced , I noticed that the sandstone lying in juxtaposition had contained fragments of trap .
Further to the southward along the shore , about 200 yards from the mouth of the stream before mentioned , is exposed a section:"1 .
Brown sandstone 2 feet , dip 33 ? .
" 2 .
Seam of clay , slate , and shaly coal ; irregular thickness , average 8 inches .
' 3 .
Seam of coal , 2 inches .
" 4 .
Splintery shales , 6 inches .
" 5 .
Whitish sandstone , stained brown in some places with oxide of iron , 2 feet exposed , but obscured by trap debris from above .
" In this shale ( or clayey slate ) and in the sandstone where it joined the slate were faint impressions of vegetable structure , but so imperfect as only to be distinguishable as charred spots .
" After proceeding along the beach for 12 mile the trap dyke A appears , coming down perpendicularly through the strata , and sending a longitudinal vein to interstratify between a seam of sandstone and a sandy description of shale .
The spur of trap runs almost horizontally until it ends in a protuberant 'knob .
' The strata are slightly tilted at the line where the dyke cuts through them on the north side , which also gives them a slight northerly dip : the strike of all the strata is , however , the same , viz. circiter N.E. magnetic .
These strata , however , resume their former southerly dip on the other side of the dyke , from which they had an opposite dip as from an anticlinal axis .
This sandstone is of a coarse gritty character , and , as formerly remarked where it comes into contact with the igneous rock , does not seem to have suffered much metamorphosis though directly in contact ; indeed this was of such a small extent as to render the tracing of it a matter of difficulty .
In some places on the line of contact between the sandstone and the trap , the trap seems ( if the term may be allowed ) to take the characters of the sandstone , being soft , crystalline in structure , and easily broken with the hand .
On the other hand , the grit in contact with the trap does not seem to differ from that in the normal condition , but in some cases the sandstone ( i. e. the grit ) seems to have been melted by the heat , forming a glaze on the surface .
( B. ) The trap dykes I have spoken of as intersecting the sedimentary rock , are three in number , and run in three regular lines cutting the strata obliquely .
They often stand out in bare weathered wall-like structures which have survived the action of frost and snow , arctic winter cold and summer heat , and the torrents of melting snow in the spring .
One of these weathered masses is quite picturesque , and a good landmark coming to Atanekerdluk from sea .
" The disintegrating causes I have spoken of have worn down the sedimentary strata on either side of these dykes into a mere soil , and you for the most part ( as being the most accessible way to get at them ) dig the pieces of cherty ironstone out of a clay composed of the remains of these disintegrated rocks , and which in their downward sweep by the torrents , have been arrested on a flat or hollow halfway down the mountain , or perhaps 1100 feet above the sea .
" These statements confirm the accounts of RINK and INGLEFIELD respecting the strYtification of the coal-deposits and plant-beds of Atanekerdluk ( conf .
Flora Foss .
Arctica , p. 7 ) .
They show us that there is a considerable succession of sedimentary strata , pierced by volcanic rocks which form the summits of the mountains .
Fossil plants occur in all the beds , but the siderite and limonite contain them in the greatest abundance and in the best state of preservation .
In fact the slabs from these beds are quite covered with specimens , lying in every direction ( l. c. p. 10 ) .
Among the leaves I found two insects , a beetle and one of the Hemiptera .
These must have been inhabitants of dry land , as well as the plants .
However , amongst the latter we find several species which must have grown in marshy or moory ground , viz. Phragmnites , Spargan , iumn , Taxodimn , and Menycznthes .
These plants indicate a freshwater forimation , as does also a Cyclas ( Plate LII .
fig. 10 ) , the shell of which occurs in the siderite , and which is undoubtedly a freshwater mollusk .
These facts , combined with the entire absence of marine plants and animals , pro7ve to us that the siderite of Atanekerdluk is most certainly a freshwater deposit-probably similar in its origin to the limonite of our own woods and marshes .
Mr. aWHYMIPER'S collection contains fossil plants from -two localities on Disco Island , viz. Ujararsusuk and Kudliset , which is opposite Atanekerdluk and nearly on the same parallel of latitude .
As before , I shall extract from his report and the notes of Mr. BRowN the portions which bear on the geology of the place .
" Coal-seams are exposed at a number of points both along the Waigat and on the coast between Flakkerhul and Godhavn .
Dr. RINK mentions five places at which it is found along these shores ; there are at least three others , -one spoken of by GIESECKE ; another near to Issungoak Ness , from which I obtained anlber through the natives ; and a third nearer to Godhavn .
At the time of our visit fossil wood had been found:-lst , * Grinland geographisk og statistisk beskrevet , vol. i. pp. 172 , &amp;c. at Iglutsiak , near Godhavn ; 2nd , at Signifik , between the last-named place and Flakkerhuk ; 3rd , at Ujarasusuk ( Ujarasuksumitok ) ; and 4th , at Kulfelden ( Kudliset ) .
Specimens from these places are in the University Museum at Copenhagen , and on my return I obtained , through the courtesy of Professor JOHNSTRUP , duplicate specinlens from the first two named .
Until the time of our visit leaves had not , however , been found , with the exception of a few specimens by Dr. LYALL .
Amber had , however , been found at several places , and from this fact , and from the statement by GIESECKE , that he had himself observed impressions of leaves , there was little doubt but that a more careful search would yield results .
It was most .
important to find the place spoken of by GIESECJKE as Ritenbenk 's Kulbrund .
There was difficulty in doing so : the natives differed among themselves ; but we now know that this name is applied equally to all the places along the Waigat coast of Disco from which coal has been taken for Ritenbenk .
At the present time coal for that colony is only taken from one place on Disco , namely , Ujarasuksumitok ; but it has been taken from several others , and hence we were much puzzled to determine the precise point to which GIESECKE referred .
" On arrival at Ujarasuksumitok it was found that the coal was exposed in the cliff by the shore , at a height of about 50 feet above the sea .
It had been worked a length of 50 feet to a depth of 4- : one could not say what was the entire depth of the seam , as the lower part was covered up by debris ' .
All the natives were put to work , but for some hours we failed to find anything more than wood ( up to 5 inches diameter ) , charred stems , doubtful impressions , and a few grains of amber .
I then went along the coast towards , the north , and was at length rewarded by finding a fair specimen , containing leaves , in the bed of a small stream .
It was in hardened , warm-coloured clay , similar to those obtained at Atanekerdluk .
I followed the stream to its source , a height of about 1000 feet , without finding anything more .
Then returning , I went to the south , and in another and larger torrent-bed found several others .
The natives , now put on the right track , soon brought in a fair collection .
GUDEMANN was the fortunate discoverer of the Magnolia cone , to which Professor HEER refers , and he was greatly surprised at the reward it produced him .
" All the specimens collected at this place were obtained from these two torrent-beds : Mr. BRuowN , who followed the fossils up to their source , reported that they came from a thin seam difficult to get at .
As it was becoming a question whether the boats would carry all the specimens we had already collected , I decided to push onwards the saime night to Kudliset , which , from reports received , seemed a more promising place for investigation .
" Mr. BROWN says , " A few days before our arrival coal had been taken out .
The place where the mining had been done was a cliff facing the sea .
It exhibited shales resting ( ?
) on trap , topped again by medium-grained white sandstone , this apparently covered by * " The Danish man at Sakkak informed me that the coal was got out easily enough during the summer time , but that at a depth of 12 feet it remained frozen throughout the year .
On arriving at the frozen coal they commonly wait two or three days to allow it to thaw , before continuing to work it .
coal ; for further along the beach there was a face of 3 feet of lignite exposed , this covered again by 1 ?
foot shale , then 10 feet coarse brownish gritty sandstone , then 2 feet of hard brownish sandstone , finally 4 feet of hard grey sandstone discoloured in some places by iron .
On this the alluvial soil rested ; some strata , or a stratum , having , however , to all appearance been denuded .
The dip 33 ? .
Strike easterly across the Waigat .
Both the shales and sandstone grit contained innumerable impressions of stems interlaced in every direction , but more particularly in the shales , but , as at Atanekerdluk , ( nearly directly opposite ) there were no leaves , and most of the stems &amp;c. in the shale appeared only like lines of charred wood .
The coal , though of a poor quality , is yet perfectly fit to burn , and some of the exploring ships ( MCCLINTOCiK'S and INGLEFIELD'S ) have taken it .
" Much debris has been brought down by the stream here as it dashes from the mountain , and bursts through the sedimentary strata which lie in its way .
Among this debris were found fair impressions of leaves .
I followed these up , and found them to be from the little stratum of hard brown sandstone formerly mentioned .
It was , however , difficult in our limited time to obtain specimens of the rock on account of the mass of deposits above them .
The place where these are found in situ is about 100 feet above the sea .
" Mr. WHYMPER'S Report goes on to say , " At this place ( Kudliset ) coal ( lignite ) was exposed in a cliff on the south side of the bed of a small stream in two seams , 4 feet apart , for a length of about 30 feet , difficult to get at .
They were 105 feet ( by aneroid ) above the sea , and distant from it about 300 yards .
The lowest seam , 2 feet thick , was resting on a bed of indurated clay , and between the seams was a coarse and very loose , crumbly sandstone .
The uppermost seam , 1 foot thick , was capped by a finer and harder sandstone which I could not measure .
The whole , above and below , was enclosed by sand .
" In the torrent-bed we found some considerable masses of apparently fossilized wood , and I followed the stream upwards in hopes of finding leaves .
At a height of about 800 feet I obtained agates in basalt , and following the stream to its source ( about 1000 feet above the sea ) , came nearly to the foot of the great basaltic cliffs .
The specimens collected here include hardened clays which have taken form in cavities in the basalt .
Retur:ning to my party , I found that they had in the mean time obtained some indifferent and fair specimens from the torrent-bed and from the sandstone above the coal .
We afterwards added to their number , but the coarseness of the stone prevented any very good specimens from being obtained .
Nodules of argillaceous oxide of iron , having usually in the centre kernels of the same , were abundant in the stream and in the soil at its sides .
" After a half-day 's work we had apparently exhausted this locality .
The specimens obtained were again chiefly taken from the torrent-bed .
It was a matter of difficulty , if not of danger , to get any from the sandstone above the coal ; and as the natives were murmuring frequently at being taken further away than they had agreed , I sent Mr. BRowN to the south with one boat to examine the coast and then proceed to Ritenbenk , vid MlDCCCLXIX .
3P 453 Atanekerdluk , while I went with the other boat as far north on the Disco shore as the natives would go .
A little further along the coast I found some doubtful impressions of leaves in a great wilderness of stones brought down by a glacier-torrent , and about three miles still further north came to the magnificent gorge in the sandstone cliffs by the shore to which I have vainly endeavoured to do justice in a view exhibited at the Meeting* .
One mile after this the cliffs by the shore came to an end , and the coast apparently continued quite flat until opposite Hare Islandt .
The natives agreed that no coal was visible along the whole of this shore ; and we crossed to Mannik , on the opposite side of the Waigat .
Here there was a small thin seam of coal exposed in a cliff not far from the shore ; but I obtained nothing from it , and we continued our course to Atanekerdluk , arriving shortly after midnight ; here we passed the night of the 27th August .
The next day was occupied in loading the boat with the specimens we had left there , in sketching , and in completing the examination of the locality .
At 4 P.M. we started for Sakkak , and left it at 8.30 , arriving at Ritenbenk on the morning of the 29th August .
Mr. BROWN had arrived about twelve hours before , but , like ourselves , had failed to make any fresh discoveries .
" At Ritenbenk we remained three days , with foul weather .
During this time the collections , including many hundred specimens , amounting to considerably more than half a ton in weight , were repacked .
We were then favoured , by the kindness of Mr. ANDErtSON , with a passage in a blubber-boat to Godhavn , at which place we arrived on September the 4th , after a most disagreeable voyage .
On the 10th we sailed on board the brig ' Hoalfisken , ' and arrived at Copenhagen on October the 22nd .
" Mr. WIYMPER concludes his Report by saying , " It is right to observe that these collections could not have been made excepting by means of the facilities afforded by the -Danish authorities .
We may feel a natural satisfaction that so many as 80 species should have been discovered by the labours of Professor HEER , but it should be remembered that they are primarily due to the invaluable information given by Herr C. S. M. OLRIK , the Director of the Greenland Trade .
Scarcely less are our thanks due to Herr K. SMITH , the present Inspector of North Greenland , and to IHerr ANDERSON , of IRitenbenk ; both of these gentlemen gave much assistance at considerable personal trouble , which was of the greatest service .
" Mr. BRowN says , " Kudliset .
This locality is backed by great cliffs of basalt giving the place its name .
Walking south along the beach the following section is exposed , from top to bottom:"1 .
20 feet alluvium of earth , debris of rocks from cliffs behind .
" 2 .
5 feet coarse gritty brown sandstone .
" 3 .
1foot hard grey sandstone .
" 4 .
1 foot hard sandy shales with the faint vegetable impressions , &amp;c. " 5 .
14 inches of coal exposed by the men attempting to work it at the place where a stream breaks through the strata .
The coal is of the same nature as the others .
" 6 .
2 to 3 feet of shales .
" 7 .
3 feet hard sandstone .
" 8 .
2 feet shales , sandstones &amp;c. in irregularly laminated seam .
" 9 .
1 foot hard sandstone .
" 10 .
2 feet shales .
" 11 .
Hard grey sandstone with pieces of coal contained in its mass .
Of this 14 feet were exposed at the level of the beach .
" The dip of these strata is north 45 ?
, strike easterly ( across the Waigat ) .
Scattered along the beach are great blocks of conglomerate of primary rocks which have rolled from the mountains .
" ( a ) Fossil stem locality.-North of the last-named place a stream flows in .
This stream flows in a general course , easterly from the mountains or the interior of the island ( which seems only to be a small edition of the mainland in its physical features ) .
Many of the stems were lying in the stream in fragments , but the dicotyledonous character of them was quite apparent .
The bark , knots &amp;c. were quite characteristic the outside brownish or whitish , the interior of a blackish character .
They might be passed over by any one not acquainted with the appearance of fossil stones as mere blocks of stone .
A perpendicular section facing the stream where these stones had rolled down ( as it afterwards appeared out of the level ) showed from the level of the creeks the following:"1 .
( Bottom ) 4 feet splintery shales .
" 2 .
1 foot hard gritty sandstone .
" 3 .
4 feet mixed shales and sandstone .
" 4 .
1 foot coal .
" 5 .
1 foot shale , with faint impressions of leaves , stems &amp;c. ( zit ctntea ) .
|e c"c6 .
2feet coal .
" In this coal are the stems referred to previously .
They lie apparently horizontally N. and S. , and the transverse section of them is exhibited in the cliff .
The direction of 3P2 455 all the stems is not constant , and more difficult to satisfy oneself regarding than might be supposed .
At all events there is no doubt they lie horizontally .
Coal is , according to my observations , invariably all around the stems , and the shales do not come in contact with them .
I would also beg of you to notice there is no ' dirt bed ' inferiorlystrong presumptive evidence ( I venture to think ) that under whatever condition the plants to which the leaves , &amp;c. belong grew ( and there can be no doubt but that they were never water-floated ) , the stems grew not in sittz , but were probably floated there in much the same way as the drift wood is now , and accumulates in great mass in certain places about Disco Bay and other portions of the Arctic regions* .
I pray you , however , to look upon this as merely a theory , not a fact , and as such only do I state it , with every respect for your opinion , to which I wish entirely to yield .
" 7 .
Shales , 18 inches .
" 8 .
Sandstone with leaves , &amp;c. ( as per specimen ) , 3 feet .
" 9 .
Small seam of soft shale .
" 10 .
One foot of coal .
" 11 .
4 feet of shales , soft and splintery .
" 12 .
1 foot of coal .
" 13 .
3 feet soft splintery brownish shales .
' " 14 .
Whitish sandstone , gritty 1 " 15 .
Alluvial soil with recent vegetation .
Rough sketch showing position of stems in coal at Kudliset .
" Close to this place I found the face of a bare slope scattered with fragments of fossil wood , twigs , and portions of stems out of strata .
" If we take a general view of the geological relations of this part of Greenland , as described in the foregoing extracts , we find that on both sides of the Waigat the crystalline rocks are covered by a succession of Miocene deposits pierced by volcanic rocks *It may be so , but as no marine miocene animals and plants were found either at Disco or at Atanekerdluk , it is more probable that the fossil stems were drifted by a river , and that the lignlites of the brown coal issued from trees of the moors , in which they sank .
At present times this occurs frequently on the moors .
The fact that they are lying in every direction and enveloped by coal accounts for it.-OSWALD HEER .
which appear in places as thick beds of basalt and trap .
Most unfortunately there was no opportunity afforded to this expedition of visiting the cretaceous strata on the north side of Noursoak ( near Kome ) which have revealed to us the existence of the interesting chalk flora , described in my ' Flora Arctica .
' I shall now proceed to give some particulars respecting the plants brought home by Mr. WHYMPER .
I. Fossil Plantsfrom Disco .
The collection contains fourteen species from this island ; six are from Ujararsusuk , and twelve from Kudliset , four are common to both localities , viz. Aspidium Meyeri , Seqzoia Coztttsice , Platanus Guillelmce , and Magnolia Inglefieldi .
The plane and the Sequoia are the commonest trees at both places .
Plane leaves of various sizes and of great beauty have been found ( cf. Plate XLVII .
&amp; XLVIII .
) , and prove to us that two species of this tree occurred in the Miocene deposits of North Greenland .
Both of them have been found at Atanekerdluk , but only one ( P. Guillelmnw , Gopp .
) occurred at Disco .
The Sequoia exhibits not only long twigs in a good state of preservation , but also the cones ( Plate XLI .
&amp; XLII .
) .
It appears therefore that at the Miocene epoch the woods of this part of Disco Island were chiefly composed of planes and Sequoias .
In addition there were a Widdringtonia , a Liquidanbar , and a MIagnolia with very large evergreen leaves .
The leaves of this Magnolia have been found at Kudliset and Atanekerdluk , the fruit at Ujararsusuk .
I had previously known only the leaves of this remarkable tree , which were described in my ' Flora Arctica ' ( p. 120 , pls .
iii .
, xvi .
, xviii .
) .
The two cones found at Ujararsusuk are accordingly among the most important results obtained by this expedition ; they corroborate the determination of the tree effected by means of the leaves alone , and they prove to us that this splendid evergreen ripened its fruits so far north as on the parallel of 70 ? .
A J)ryandra , an Aralia and a Paliurus probably constituted the brushwood of the forest , while several ferns ( Aspidiumrz Meyeri , A. Heerii , Ett .
, A. ursinum ) covered the ground .
The Phragmites and the Sparganiumn point to the existence of a river or a lake .
Seven out of these fourteen species occur also at Atanekerdluk .
Eight of them agree with those of the Lower Miocene of Europe .
The flora belongs therefore to that epoch .
II .
Fossil Plants from Atanekerdluk .
In the sandstone and ironstone of Kudliset and Ujararsusuk , the fossil plants are rather rare , but at Atanekerdluk they are found in the greatest profusion , at times occurring in dense conglomerated masses .
The collection contains 73 species from this locality ; 48 of these are described in my 'Flora Arctica , ' and 25 are new .
Of these latter 5 are found in the Miocene Flora of Europe , viz. Poacites Mengeanus , Smilax grandifolia , Quercus Laharpii , Corylus insignis , and Sassafras Ferretianum .
Of these the Smilax and Sassafras present points of peculiar interest .
The Smilax grandifolia represents the Smilax Mauritania of the present Mediterranean flora , and at the lower Miocene epoch was distributed over the whole of Europe .
It is found in Italy , Switzerland , 457 and Germany up to the coasts of the Baltic , and we now know that it occurred even in Greenland , hanging probably in festoons from the trees .
The Sassafras has hitherto only been found at a few localities , which are however are so far apart ( Menat in France , and Senegaglia in Italy ) that it is very probable that the plant ranged over a large part of Europe .
This type of plants must have had a very large distribution as to time and space , for we find it in the Cretaceous formation of the United States ( Sassaifas cretaceum , Newb .
) as well as in the Eocene of Europe ( S. 2rimigenia , Sap .
) .
At present it is only found in America .
As interesting new species we have to notice a Yiburmlu ( y. Whymperi ) resembling the V. Lantana of Europe and the V. dentatzin of America ; an Aralia with leathery leaves , a Cornus , an Ilex with very large leaves , two Rlhs , a Sorbt6s , a Nyssa , and two Pterospermites .
The collection gives us also much information about species already known .
It contains many fine leaves of 1M'Clintoclcia which extend our knowledge of this remarkable genus .
It is true that even now its systematic position cannot be determined with certainty , but it probably belongs to the family of Menispermaceae .
The appearance of a fruit from Atanekerdluk confirms this opinion , which can also be based on the leaves .
IOf the Segqoia Langsdorfii I found the male and female flowers , and the ripe and opened cones are not rare .
They and the long shoots which are occasionally found , :show us that the climate and soil must have been very favourable for the growth of this tree .
Of the Salisburea we knew formerly merely the form with entire leaves .
This collection contains a portion of a leaf which shows us that the fossil species had at times bilobate leaves like the living ones .
It is therefore probable that the Miocene tree belongs to the same species as the living S. Adiantiftlia of Japan .
The oaks appear very frequently at Atanekerdluk .
To the eight species which we knew formerly , a new one ( Quercus Lahzarpii , Gaud .
) has been added , while among the former ones we obtained more perfect leaves of Q. Lyellii and Q. platania .
The same is the case with Juglans , Planera , and two remarkable ferns ( IHemitelites Torelli and Woodwardites ) , differing very widely from all species both of the temperate and frigid zones .
The discovery of the fruit and flowers of the chestnut ( cf. Plate XLV .
figs. 1 , 2 ) lying beside a leaf of Fagus castanecefolia , Ung .
, confirms the opinion which I expressed in my 'Flora Arctica ' ( p. 106 ) of its identity with Castanea .
They prove to us that the deposits of Atanekerdluk were formed at different seasons ; in spring when the chestnut is in flower , as well as in autumn .
The discovery of the fruit of Menyantles ( Plate L. fig. 16 ) is a further confirmation of a species founded only on the leaves .
Mr. WI-IYIPER'S collection contains on the whole 80 species of plants from North Greenland ; 32 of these are new for this flora , and 20 are quite new .
The Miocene plants of North Greenland have thereby reached the number of 137 species , and those of the Arctic Miocene flora 194 .
Of these 137 species from Greenland 46 species agree with those of the Miocene of Europe .
Of these the following species have their Southern limits determined .
On the coasts of the Baltic , 6 , viz.:Sequoia brevifolia , Poacites Mengeanus , Populus Zaddachi , Salix'Raeana , Andromeda Saportana , and Fraxinus denticulata. .
In Switzerland , 10 , viz.:Aspidium Meyeri , A. lIeerii , Osmunda HIeerii , Pteris CEningensis , Sparganium stygium , Widdringtonia helvetica , Platanus Guillelmai , Corylus insignis , Rhamnus Gaudini , and Colutea Salteri .
In Austria , 7 , viz.:Lastraea Stiriaca , Quercus Lyellii , Fagus macrophylla , Alnus nostratum , Cornus ferox , Myrica acuminata , and Dryandra acutiloba .
In France ( Armissan and Menat ) , 4 , viz.:Thujopsis massiliensis , Sequoia Couttsiae , Populus sclerophylla , and Corylus M'Quarrii .
In Italy , 17 , viz.:Salisburea adiantoides , Taxodium , Smilax grandifolia , Phragmites ( Eningensis , , Liquidambar europaeum , Platanus aceroides , Fagus Deucalionis , Castanea Ungeri , , Quercus Drymeia , Q. Laharpii , Carpinus grandis , Diospyros brachysepala , Ilex longifolia , Juglans acuminata , J. Strozziana , Rhamnus Eridani , Sassafras Ferretianum .
In Greece ( EKumi ) , 6 , viz.:Sequoia Langsdorfii , Glyptostrobus europaeus , Planera Ungeri , Quercus furcinervis , Andromeda protogaea , and Rhamnus brevifolia .
TWe find 4 species common to North Greenland and Bovey Tracey in Devonshire .
It is remarkable that among these is the tree most common at the latter locality , Sequoia Couttsim , while the fern most frequently found at Bovey ( Henitelites lignitzmn ) is represented in Greenland by a species ( H. Torelli ) very closely related to it .
It is certainly very interesting that so many species extend to Italy and Greece .
Almost all of these may be referred to the country situated between these two extreme limits , and we thereby see that our knowledge respecting the Miocene Flora of Europe , at least the forest plants , is no longer so imperfect as heretofore .
This review proves to us the extensive distribution of the Miocene plants , and also that the same types have ranged over a wider area than the homologous living species .
These indeed reach as far southwards as the Miocene ones , but do not advance so far in a northerly direction .
Amber has been brought by Mr. WHYMPER from Atanekerdluk and from Ujararsusuk .
At Atanekerdluk it is found in the brown coal , and also in the fossil plant-beds .
In some stones grains of aimber are seen beside twigs of Taxodium ( Plate XLIII .
figs. 4 , 6 ) .
It is , however , much more4 abundant in the brown coal of Ilare Island ( cf. Flora Arctica , p. 7 ) .
The Segqmoias and the Taxodliztm being the commonest conifers of Greenland , it seems likely that the amber was produced by them .
I pointed out in my 'Flora Fossilis Arctica ' ( p. 13 ) , that the formation containing the Tertiary plants of Greenland is Lower Miocene in age .
The species which have 459 been newly discovered do not affect the truth of this statement .
Platanus Guillelmce and Quercus Lazarpii have certainly been only found in the Upper Miocene of Europe ; while Snilax grandifolia , Widdringtonia helvetica , Dryandra acutiloba , Aspidiu2n Heerii , and Corylus insignis occur only in the Lower Miocene ; and Sassafras Ferretianum , with Aspidium Meyeri and Liquidambar Europwurn , have been met with in both divisions .
In conclusion I beg to offer a few remarks as to the amount of certainty in identification which the determination of fossil plants is able to afford us .
We now that the flowers , fruit , and seeds are more important as characteristics than the leaves .
There are many genera of which the leaves are very variable , and would consequently be likely to lead us astray if we trusted to them alone .
However , many peculiarities as to the form and nervation of leaves are well known to be characteristic of certain genera , and can therefore afford us indications of great value for their recognition .
Most fortunately in the case of fossil plants we are not always dependent on the leaves alone for purposes of identification .
Of many plants we know other organs which , taken in connexion with the leaves , justify a determination as absolute as that of a living plant .
If a species has been once thoroughly identified in this manner we are able to recognize it in other localities where the leaves alone are found .
The same is true of living plants in many cases .
We recognize at first glance a fir , a beech , a maple , &amp;c. if we see the leaves only , without looking to the flowers or fruit .
On the whole , then , the following are the grounds on which the determination of the plants belonging to the Miocene Flora of Greenland has been based respectively .
I. Species identified by means of leaves , flowers , fruit , and seeds .
Sequoia Langsdorfii , Castanea Ungeri , and Diospyros brachysepala .
II .
Species identified by means of leaves and fruit .
Taxodium , Sequoia Couttsiae , Sparganium , Myrica , Populus IRichardsoni , P. Arctica , Ostrya , Corylus M'Quarrii , Menyanthes , Magnolia , and Paliurus .
III .
Species identified by means of leaves and seeds .
Vitis and Prunus .
Accordingly the leaves and organs of fructification of 17 species have been described .
IV .
Ten species are only represented in Greenland by their leaves , while their fruit , and in some cases their flowers and seeds , have been found elsewhere .
Glyptostrobus europseus , Pinus polaris , Widdringtonia helvetica , Liquidambar europmum , Planera Ungeri , Platanus aceroides , Andromeda protogaea , Carpinus grandis , Juglans acuminata , Populus Zaddachi , and Quercus furcinervis .
V. The remainder of the Phanerograms is only known to us by means of their leaves .
The leaves of many of the species have , however , such well-marked characteristics , that their generic determination may be considered as complete .
These are Salisburea adiantoides , Smilax grandifolia , Salix Rseana , S. Gronlandica , Alnus nostratum , Fagus Deucalionis , Quercus Greenlandica , Q. Olafseni , Q. Lyellii , Q. * Notice of the fruits of Qtercus and Fcatgs is omitted in default of complete identification .
Drymeia , Platanus Guillelmoe , Sassafras Ferretianum , Hedera MacClurii , Viburnum Whymperi , Cornus hyperboreus , Rhamnus Eridani , Crataegus antiqua .
VI .
To these may be added 5 Cryptogams , of which the position in the vegetable kingdom is quite certain , viz.:Aspidium Meyeri , Lastraea Stiriaca , Pteris CEningensis , Osmunda Heerii ( Gaud .
) , and Equisetum arcticum .
It must be allowed that the systematic position of a number of plants from North Greenland is as yet uncertain .
The families to which Dap2nogene Kanji , the MiClintockrias , and Pterospermites are to be assigned are not satisfactorily determined , while the remains of the plants described by me as Dryandra , Ficus , llex , Araliat , Rhus , and Nyssa are questionable .
However , the number of species which have been positively identified is so large , that it enables us to give a sketch of the Miocene Flora of North Greenland .
II .
List of the Plants , and descriptions of the New Species .
I. FILICES .
1 .
Aspidizumn eyeri , HIeer , Plate XXXIX .
figs. 1-3 .
Fronde pinnata , pinnis patentibus , lanceolato-linearibus , profunde pinnati-partitis vel pinnatisectis , laciniis oblongis , apice rotundatis , integerrimis , nervis tertiariis furcatis ; soris biseriatis , indusio orbiculato .
Hr .
Fl .
Tert .
Helv. i. p. 36 , pl. xi .
fig. 2 .
cab .
Ujararsusuk ( figs. 1 , 2 ) .
Kudliset ( fig. 3 ) .
This remarkable fern seems to have been very common in Disco .
The best specimens ( Plate XXXIX .
fig. 1 ) are from Ujararsusuk .
Rachis pretty thick , leaflets numerous , lying in all directions .
On most of the pinnules are traces of sori , sometimes very well preserved .
Pinnules pretty close-set , of considerable length ( fig. 1 c ) , deeply pinnately lobed , the lobes contiguous at the base or remote .
Pinnules of the largest leaves are 5-1 millims. broad , and 12 long ; shorter , smaller , and somewhat bent upwards at the apex ; near the base they spring from the rachis almost at a right angle .
Lower pinnules oblong , rounded at the apex , which is not the case with the upper ones .
Secon .
dary nerves contiguous , and mostly forked ( fig. 1 , magnified ) .
Sori in two lines of 3-5 each along the principal nerve ( fig. 1a a , magn .
) halfway between the midrib and the margin .
Fig. If ( l1ff , magn .
) shows two ranges of sori .
With the lens we perceive in them a great many small round impressions left by the capsules .
Fig. 1a ( magn .
a , a ) represents a fine portion of a leaf with the indusia , which are circular , and seem not to be emarginate .
In fig. 2 the pinnules are united higher up at the base ; nevertheless this specimen from Ujararsusuk probably belongs to the same species ; the pinnules being also obtusely rounded .
These Greenland leaves agree with the molasse plant from Lausanne and Euppen .
It differs from Aspidiuzm Escheri , I-Ir .
, in the obtuse pinlnules and forked secondary nerves .
Aspidium Heerii , Ett .
, Plate XXXIX .
figs. 4 , 5 .
K. von Ettingshausen , die Farm krauter der Jetzwelt , p. 199 .
A. elongatum , Hr .
Fl .
Tert .
Helv. i. .
36 pI .
xi .
fig. 3 .
Hab .
Kudliset , Ujararsusuk .
Fragments of pinnules , agreeing well with the fern of the Hohe Rhone .
It differs from the preceding species in the pinnules , which taper at the apex , and the secondary nerves , which are apparently not forked .
Figs. 5 &amp; 5b represent the pinnatisect ends of the pinnules .
The pinnules are bent upwards , and the secondary nerves spring at acute angles .
Fig. 5b shows traces of sori .
3 .
Aspidimnm ursinum , Hr .
, Plate XXXIX .
fig. 6 a. Foliis bipinnatis ( ?
) pinnulis oblongis , subpinnatifidis , lobis rotundatis .
Hab .
Kudliset .
A portion of a pinna .
Rachis slender , bearing alternate , oblong-oval , and on the upper part obtusely rounded pinnules .
'Margin with large teeth , or rather short obtuse lobes , separated by shallow sinuses .
Nervation obliterated , but only one undivided secondary nerve seems to run to each lobe ( fig. 1a a , magn .
) .
4 .
Woodwardites arcticus , Hr .
, Plate XL .
fig. 6 .
Hr .
Fl .
Foss .
Arct. p. 86 , pl. i. fig. 16 .
Hab .
Atanekerdluk .
Fig. 6 .
Fragments of pinnatifid pinnules , lobes obtuse .
Nervation well preserved , agreeing with pl. i. fig. 16 of my ' Flora Arctica .
' 5 .
IHemitelites Torelli , Hr .
, Plates XL .
figs. 1-5 a ; LV .
2 .
Fronde bipinnata , pinnis pinnatifidis vel pinnatipartitis , apice attenuatis , lobis integerrimis , apice obtusiusculis , nervis tertiariis furcatis , inferioribus sinum attingentibus .
Pecopteris Torellii , Hr .
Fl .
Foss .
Arct. p. 88 , pl. ii .
fig. 15 .
Hab .
Atanekerdluk .
Formerly I had but a small fragment of this species .
Mr. WH AMPER'S specimens are much better , and give a good idea of this interesting species , but the sori are wanting .
Stipes furrowed , pinnules alternate , tapered downwards and decurrent ( Plate XL .
figs. 1 , 2 ) , long , deeply cut , entire , lobes rounded or obtuse , midrib pretty stout .
Secondary nerves forming acute angles more or less curved , and bearing on each side 4-6 tertiary nerves ; lowest strongly curved , always entering the sinus between two lobes .
The lowest tertiary nerves do not generally join those of the neighbouring pinnules ( figs. 2 , 3 ) , but this is the case in fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 a. Portion of a very large pinnule , which belongs , I believe , to the same species .
In the collection at Copenhagen is a remnant of this species showing that the leaf is bipinnate ; the rachis communis is large ( 11 millims. diam. ) , the pinnie approximate .
( Plate LV .
fig. 2 .
) This must have been a very large and luxuriant fern .
It is very near Pecopteris ( Hemitelia 3 ) lignitum , cf. Lignites of Bovey Tracey , p. 29 , pls .
iv .
figs. 4-6 ; v. 1-11 ; vi .
,

