On the Affections of Light transmitted throug/ i crystallized Bodies .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.S.A. Edin .
In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. Read December 23 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 187 .
] The present experiments , to which the author has been led by discovering the singular property of agate described in his former communication to the Society , have been attended with results which he considers so extraordinary , that they appear to lead to the very mysteries of physical optics , and exhibit , he says , a series of appearances , which far surpass in splendour and variety all other phenomena of light .
This paper treats , first , of the polarizing power of the agate ; secondly , on that structure of the agate on which its properties depend ; thirdly , on peculiar colours exhibited by it ; fourthly , on the depolarization of light ; and fifthly , on certain elliptic coloured rings produced by obliquely depolarizing crystals .
With respect to the polarizing power of the agate , Dr. Brewster has before shown that a ray of light transmitted t.hrough a slice of laminated agate , cut at right angles to its laminae , may be transmitted through a prism of Iceland spar without being subdivided , being refracted ordinarily in one direction , and extraordinarily when the principal section of the spar is transverse to the laminae of the agate .
The author observed at that time a nebulous light that accompanied the bright image of a luminous object seen through the agate , consisting of rays that were not similarly affected .
He now adds , that this nebulous light is oppositely affected , being refracted like the extraordinary rays transmitted through Iceland spar , and accordingly disappearing when the bright image is most discernible , and vice versed .
But though the polarization of these rays be different , the refraction of both is the same .
In order to convey , as accurately as may be , an idea of the structure of the agate having these properties , the author assists his description by delineations of the appearances which the substance itself presents in consequence of the variations in fineness of the laminae , their curvatures , or opacity .
Some of the laminae are white , others transparent ; some straight , others variously curved ; and where finest and most transparent , exhibiting an appearance of small waves on a surface of water rippled by a gentle breeze , and depending on small variations of the inclination of the laminie .
In this communication the author again notices certain coloured images , seen on each side of the flame of a candle , or other luminous object seen through the agate , one at 10- ?
, and a second at 21 ?
, but which he is not yet able to explain , and supposes to be a new case of production of colours .
Dr. Brewster next gives the result of experiments on the transmission of light previously polarized , through various substances , and notices those positions of crystallized bodies in which the polarization continues unchanged , and those intermediate positions at which complete depolarization takes place ; and adds , that such effects are also occasioned by plates of horn , gum-arabic , glue , tortoise-shell , and even plate glass .
In addition to these properties , which mica , topaz , and rock crystal possess in common with other crystallized bodies , Dr. Brewster observes , that they have the power of depolarizing in certain oblique positions , which he considers peculiar to them .
And at the same time these bodies have certain oblique positions in which they do not de .
polarize , and which he terms neutral .
In the preceding experiments depolarization has been effected by the interposition of a second body , through which the rays are transmitted after having been previously modified by some polarizing substance ; but the author observes that these effects may both be produced by the same crystals , if the direction of the light be such , that after reflection from the posterior surface it will coincide with the oblique depolarizing axis .
It was in attending to the affections of light thus polarized and depolarized by a plate of topaz -^1th of an inch in thickness , that the author observed certain elliptical coloured rings , which he considers entirely new ; and as he thinks them important , he takes much pains to describe their various dimensions and successions of colours , and represents them in coloured drawings .
When a doubly-refracting substance is employed to view these rings , the two images seen of them are differently coloured , the colours of one set being complementary to those of the other .
When a plate of agate , or a plane reflector at a specific angle of inclination are employed , then only one or the other set is seen , according to the relative position of the planes of incidence ; and it is in the instance of using the plane reflector , that these rings appear with such peculiar brilliancy on account of the absence of all foreign light , which can , in this mode of making the experiment , be completely avoided .
In addition to the above experiments , of which the author gives a detailed account , he remarks , that light reflected at a particular angle from the surface of blue steel is polarized , and thence infers that the oxide is a thin transparent film ; that light is partially polarized by reflection from all metallic surfaces .
That light from white clouds or blue sky is partially polarized , but that no part of the moon 's light has suffered any degree of polarization .

