C 127 ] IV .
A Study of the Phenomena and Causation of Heat-contraction of Skeletal Muscle .
By T. G. Brodie , M.D. , Lecturer on Physiologyand S. W. F. Bichardson , B.S. , Demonstrator of Physiology , \lt ; Sfe .
Thomas 's Hospital Medical School .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) Communicated by W. D. Halliburton , F.P.S. Received March 2 , 1897 , \#151 ; Read March 11 , 1897 , \#151 ; Revised January , 1899.* In the course of some experiments !
to determine the influence of a rise of temperature upon the length of muscle stretched by different loads , we observed in a few cases that as the temperature rose , the ordinary heat contraction was followed by a second .
This second contraction was less in extent than the first , and exerted only a slight force , for it was readily cut out , or even replaced by an elongation , when the tension was increased .
In all these early experiments the muscle preparation employed was a frog 's gastrocnemius , or a combined semitendinosus and gracilis preparation , and we were at first unable to obtain the same result when using the sartorius .
We accordingly determined to investigate fully the conditions under which it was to be observed .
At first we directed our attention to differences in anatomical structure , which might explain the difference in behaviour of the two muscles , and of these the most notable is the presence of a large tendinous insertion , arranged in a typical manner on the surface and in the interior of the gastrocnemius .
The shrinkage of tendon when a piece is dropped into boiling water is a well-known phenomenon .
It is limited to a shortening of the fibres in the direction of their length , and has been studied by Engelmann^ and by Hermann .
S We soon found , however , that this could not explain the difference found , for in muscle the second contraction commences between 47 ' C. and 50 ' C. , whereas the contraction of tendon does not commence until about 62 ' C. is reached .
The true cause of the discrepancy was soon found to lie in the instrumental defects of the apparatus we were using for magnifying the contractions .
When we were dealing with a comparatively powerful muscle like the gastrocnemius a certain * * * S * MS .
returned to authors for compression 18 June , 1897 , and received back January 13 , 1899 .
f ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1897 , vol. 21 , p. 353 .
X Pfluger 's ' Archiv , ' 1873 , vol. 7 , vide footnotes on pp. 177 and 179 .
S Idem , 1873 , vol. 7 , p. 417 .
4.9.99 amount of friction did not prevent the production of the second contraction .
When , on the other hand , a sartorius is experimented upon , the force that this second contraction exerts is much weaker , and is soon prevented from producing any effect if too much friction be present .
We at once obtained a similar result with the sartorius by making apparatus where the inertia of the moving parts was brought to a minimum , and friction , as nearly as possible , abolished .
We have attained this result and at the same time retained the power of magnifying the movements to any degree we wished , by making use of a photographic method of recording , and by applying the necessary tension by means of a weak spiral spring , whose weight was supported from above .
The main details of the apparatus employed in most of our experiments are shown in fig. 1 .
Fig. 1 .
The lower end of the muscle is firmly pinned down to a small cork base fitted to the lower end of a brass rod .
The upper end is attached , by a waxed thread , to the extremity of a short lever , L , which is made to exert an upward pull upon the muscle by means of the weight , W. By this arrangement the tension of the muscle could be reduced , if required , to almost any extent .
Resting on the lever , L , immediately above the point of attachment of the muscle , is a second very light lever , whose other extremity is fixed perpendicularly to the centre of a small circular mirror , M. This mirror moves round a horizontal axis in the plane of its reflecting surface .
Any change in length of the muscle thus produces a proportionate rotation of the mirror .
The movements of the mirror , and therefore of the muscle , are then recorded in the ordinary way .
For this purpose a narrow horizontal slit , S , is brightly illuminated by means of a projecting lantern , and the light passing through it is collected by a lens , K , and falls on the surface of the mirror , whence it is reflected to fall across a vertical slit , V , placed at some distance from the mirror A photoTHE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
graphic plate , held vertically , is driven across the slit , V , at any convenient rate , and only the strip of plate immediately behind the slit is thus exposed .
The image of the slit , S , is carefully focussed on the plate and all light , other than that reflected from the mirror , M , is thoroughly screened from the plate .
The mirror is set at an angle of 45 ' to the direction of the rays passing through the slit , S , and the rays are thus reflected at right angles to their first direction .
In those experiments in which we wished to employ high tensions , we have used a spiral spring fixed vertically above the muscle , to which it was attached by a fine wire .
By varying the extension of the spring , or by using springs of different strengths , the tension on the muscle could be conveniently varied .
The tension throughout any experiment remained constant , for we employed long springs , and the shortening of the muscle in our experiments was negligible in comparison to the length of the spring .
The metal L-piece and the muscle are surrounded by fluid by bringing up a small beaker containing the fluid .
This small beaker is in its turn held in a larger beaker , which acts as a water-bath , and is heated by a gas-burner or by the passage of an electric current through it .
The temperature at any given time is recorded upon our tracings by blocking out the light at the slit , S , for a short time , and therefore appears as a break upon the continuity of the line forming the tracing .
As a rule we have recorded each rise of either two or five degrees .
We have in all cases employed a sartorius preparation on account of its thinness , so that we might feel sure that the temperature was the same throughout the whole thickness of the muscle .
We have also ensured the same result by making the temperature rise very slowly .
In some cases a rise of 50 ' C. has been brought about in half-an-hour , in other cases it has been so slow as to extend over 2^ hours .
Of fluids in which to immerse the muscle , we have employed either a 0'75 per cent. NaCl solution or defibrinated ox-blood diluted with four times its volume of the above NaCl solution .
As is known from the researches of Locke* and others " physiological salt-solution " is by no means an indifferent fluid to frog muscle , so that in all the tracings we are reproducing here the diluted blood solution has been employed .
In a few preliminary experiments we determined that muscles kept in this fluid for , in some cases , longer than an hour , retained their irritability perfectly and produced a " simple muscle-curve " of a perfectly normal character .
As a typical curve , illustrating the various contractions , we have observed , when experimenting upon fresh and excitable frog 's muscles by this method , we may take that of Exp. 23 , fig. 2 .
In this record there are four distinct contractions :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The first contraction commences at 28 ' C. , its rate is much accelerated at 32 ' C. , and it is completed shortly after 40 ' C. is reached .
It is then followed by a fairly rapid and extensive relaxation .
* Pfluger 's 'Archiv , ' 1893 , vol. 54 , p. 501 .
VOL. CXCI.---B .
s ( 2 .
) The second commences at 44 ' C. , its main effect is produced at a slightly higher temperature , and it is completed at about 50 ' C. ( 3 .
) The third begins at 55 ' C. and is complete soon after 60 ' C. ( 4 .
) The fourth commences at 63 ' C. , and , in this tracing , is not very prominently marked .
Fig. 2 .
I i I Experiment 23 .
Freshly prepared sartorius of frog .
Each break in the curve represents a rise of 2 ' C. Total duration of experiment 32 minutes .
Magnification , 10-fold .
Length of sartorius , 17*5 millims. Temperature limits .
Amount of shortening .
'C .
millims , First contraction . . . .
29-40 8-7 Second " ... .
44-50 2*0 Third " ... .
55-62 1-7 Fourth " ... .
63-64 0*4 Total shortening 10*7 millims. Of these contractions the first is the one which has been chiefly studied by previous workers at this subject .
THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
Pickford* found that if the gastrocnemius of a frog were immersed for a few seconds in water at 82 ' C. , or for several minutes in water at 37'*5 C. , it passed into a condition of heat-rigor , and completely lost its excitability .
If now the muscle were removed from the warm water , he described the irritability as returning completely after a few minutes , and that a complete resolution of the rigor occurred .
SchiffI also stated that if the lower limb of a frog he immersed for 1 minute in water at 45 ' C. it became perfectly rigid , but recovered in about 4 minutes after cooling .
Wundt| was able to confirm these observations only so far as the production of rigor was concerned , hut was never able to obtain recovery .
KuhneS criticises these results , especially because these observers had immersed the muscle in water , a medium which was shown to exert a very harmful effect upon muscle , and , by itself alone , to lead to a contraction .
Like Wundt , Kuhne was never able to observe any recovery of irritability after heat-rigor had been completely established .
He showed11 that a muscle kept for some time at 37''5 C. , until its irritability was quite lost , never recovered on cooling .
If kept still longer at this temperature it became acid , and he considered that this latter change was in reality the onset of rigor-mortis , which had been accelerated by the higher temperature .
He showed IT that the legs of a living frog became rigid if they were immersed for a time in a fluid kept at 40 ' C. The circulation through the muscles , as judged by that of the web , became slowed , hut was not stopped by this immersion .
If the frog were kept for some days the circulation quite recovered , the muscles were found alkaline to litmus , but never regained4 their excitability .
Kuhne found that muscle-plasma , prepared from the frog , gave a coagulum when heated to 40 ' C. , hut he regarded the process as practically the same as that produced much more slowly in muscle heated to 30 ' C. He supposed that the same was the case with living muscle , and considered that the main difference between a muscle which had passed into rigor-mortis and one which had become rigid due to the action of heat , was that , in the latter case , the rigidity and opacity were rather more pronounced .
He further stated that a muscle which had already passed into rigor-mortis became more opaque when it was heated to 45 ' C. Alsothat a muscle which had gone into rigor at 40 ' C. became more stiff and opaque when heated a short time to 45 ' C. The conclusion** he ultimately arrives at is that rigor-mortis and the rigor occurring suddenly at 40 ' C. are to be considered as identical in nature , and that only the coagulation occurring at 45 ' C. could be termed a heat-rigor .
* * * S ** * ' Zeitschr .
fiir rat .
Medicin .
' N. F. I. , p. 110 .
f * Lehrbuch der Physiologie , ' p. 44 .
J Wundt , ' Die Lehre von der Muskelbewegung , ' p. 66 .
S ' Myologische Untersuchungen .
' Leipzig , 1860 , p. 173 .
|| Loc .
tit .
, p. 179 .
U Loc .
tit .
, p. 180 .
** Loc .
tit .
, p. 193 .
S 2 In a series of papers , Schmulewitsch records some experiments bearing upon this question .
He used a gastrocnemius preparation immersed in a bath of 0*65 per cent , sodium chloride , which was gradually warmed .
He describes# two distinct processes as being set up :\#151 ; ( a ) A physical change .
If the solution surrounding a muscle be warmed from 2 ' C. to 28 ' C. the muscle shortens , and again lengthens when the solution is cooled .
This change was only obtained with muscles still retaining their irritability .
If this were lost the reverse effect was obtained , .
, it behaved as an inorganic body .
( b)A physiological change .
This expresses itself as two contractions .
If a muscle be heated to 28 ' C. , and kept at this temperature for a time , a contraction followed by an elongation occurs .
The whole change at times lasted 4 minutes , the muscle remaining irritable the whole time .
If the temperature be raised to 35 ' C. , a second contraction occurs , but of shorter duration than the first .
The muscle still remains irritable .
At 40 ' or 41 ' C. the muscle enters into heat-rigidity , and its irritability is lost .
Schmulewitsch assigned the contraction to a specific action of the temperature at the two points named , and only obtained them from irritable muscle .
In another series of experiments Schmulewitsch shows f that the power a frog 's muscle possesses of performing work is increased as its temperature is raised to about 33 ' C. , but that with a further rise is diminished , until at a temperature varying from 38 ' C. to 41'*5 C. for different preparations the power is completely lost .
MareyJ examined the condition of frog 's muscle warmed to about 35 ' C. He found that they still remained excitable to electrical stimuli , though with each single twitch the relaxation remained incomplete .
These results he explained as caused by the coagulation of " myosin .
" BoudetS found a contraction in a frog 's gastrocnemius commencing at about 27 ' C. and reaching its maximum when the muscle had passed into rigidity .
As the temperature was raised he found the elasticity to increase and to become more perfect .
MoRiggia|| found that if heat-contraction be checked soon after its commencement an almost complete recovery took place in about half-an-hour .
An important paper dealing with this question has been published by Gotschligh.1T * * * S * ' Count .
Rend .
, ' vol. 68 , p. 936 , 1869 , and 'Ccntralbl .
f. d. med .
Wissenschaften , ' vol. 5 , p. 81 , 1867 .
t 'Medizin .
Jahrbucher , ' vol. 15 , p. 3 , 1868 ; Wien .
' Journ. de l'Anat .
et de la Physiol. , ' vol. 5 , p. 27 , 1868 .
| ' Du mouvement dans les fonctions de la vie , ' p. 354 , fig. 3 .
Paris , 1868 .
S " De l'elasticit^ musculaire , " ' Th6se pour le doctorat en M^decine , ' p. 31 .
Paris , 1880 .
|| Moriggia , Moleschott ' Untersuchungen , ' vol. 14 , p. 386 , 1892 .
IT Gotschlich , Pfiiiger 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 54 , p. 109 , 1893 .
THE HEAT-CONTKACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
He employed exclusively the sartorius of the frog , loaded with 2 to 3 grams , and suspended in an air-chamber , the temperature of which could he raised by heating an outer water-jacket .
He states that heat-rigor ( Warmestarre ) can be brought about in two ways\#151 ; either by heating for a short time to a temperature between 45 ' and 50 ' C. , or by heating for a longer time at 35 ' C. As soon as the contraction was once obtained no further contraction resulted on considerably prolonging the time in the second case , nor by raising the temperature a little higher in the first .
At a temperature of 65 ' to 7 5 ' C. he at times observed a second shortening , which he thought was due in all probability to a coagulation of the serum proteids contained in the muscle .
In opposition to Schmulewitsch , he was never able to observe a contraction by keeping a muscle at 27 ' or 28 ' C. , even when the temperature was kept at this point as long as half-an-hour .
If the muscle were cooled after it had been completely brought into a state of heat-rigor , it showed no tendency to elongate , and a second warming to 45 ' or 50 ' C. caused no further shortening ; the length of the muscle remained absolutely unaltered.* In the next place Gotschlich enters largely into the consideration of a condition which he speaks of as " thermal persisting-contraction " ( thermische Dauerverktirzung ) .
He notes that a frog 's muscle begins to contract at a temperature " far below that at which rigidity is produced , " and proceeds to inquire as to what would happen if the muscle were cooled after being allowed to partially shorten .
We may briefly summarise his main conclusions upon this state in the following statements :\#151 ; 1 .
The muscle is more or less shortened .
2 .
The muscle slowly , but in the end completely , returns to its original length .
3 .
That on re-warming the muscle behaves exactly as an intact muscle , and , moreover , the condition may be repeated a number of times .
The recovery of length is much accelerated by increasing the load .
4 .
Irritability is considerably diminished during the heat-shortening but can be tolerably retained even when marked shortening is present .
If cooled and stretched the muscle is still irritable , and may still remain so if the process be repeated ( in one case three times ) .
The loss of irritability need not be very marked .
5 .
The extensibility and elasticity are markedly altered and differ according to the length of time the warming has been continued .
6 .
The condition may be brought about in two ways : ( a ) by allowing a relatively high temperature , about 40 ' C. , to act for a short time ; ( b ) by exposing the muscle to a lower temperature , viz. , about 35 ' C. , for a longer time .
7 .
The muscle is not , however , brought into quite the same condition by these two methods .
It shows differences in extensibility and in the time required to elongate .
8 .
The important factor to be considered in the production of this state is that of * Loc .
cit. , p. 124 .
134 DR. T. G. BRODIE ANY ) MR. S. W. F. RICHARDSON ON time ; but that the action of a temperature of 40 ' C. for a few seconds produces practically the same result as a stay of some minutes at a lower temperature .
( It is important to note in this connection that , by the method Gotschlich uses , in order to expose a muscle to a temperature of 40 ' C. the rise must be gradual , for the muscle is suspended in air .
) 9 .
He ultimately concludes# that this condition is of the same nature as heat-rigor , i.e. , it is qualitatively an incomplete rigor , and that the processes underlying the two conditions are chemical in nature , the one being an earlier phase of the other .
Before we proceed to a discussion of the results we have obtained , it will be convenient to consider the different proteids obtainable from muscle , for their temperatures of coagulation play an important part in the interpretation we place upon our results .
Our knowledge is chiefly derived from the experiments of KuhneI and Halliburton , ] ; which have recently been extended and modified in many important particulars by v. Furth .
S These proteids , for the case of frog muscle , may be arranged in a series as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) An albumin ( myo-albumin of Halliburton ) , which coagulates at 73 ' C. This is only present in small quantities , and by v. Furth is considered as an impurity due to admixture with a little blood-serum or lymph .
( 2 .
) Myoglobulin ( Halliburton ) .
This again is only present in small quantities , v. Furth considers that it is in reality a small quantity of the next proteid remaining in solution after most has been precipitated .
( 3 .
) Myosinogen ( Halliburton ) , or myogen ( v. Furth ) .
This is the most important proteid .
It is chiefly coagulated at a temperature of 56 ' C. The limits given by v. Furth || for the coagulation temperature of a salt-free solution are from 55 ' to 65 ' C. , with a maximum precipitation at about 58 ' C. Weak solutions require a rather higher temperature .
( 4 .
) Paramyosinogen ( Halliburton ) , musculin ( Hammarsten ) , or myosin ( Kuhne and v. Furth ) .
Forms a high proportion of the total proteid and coagulates at about 47 ' C. The temperature limits found by v. FurthII are , from 44 ' to 47 ' C. an opalescence and clouding , and a precipitate from 47 ' to 50 ' C. ( 5 .
) Soluble myogen-fibrin ( v. Furth ) .
This proteid is present in considerable quantities in frog 's muscle-plasma .
Its solutions begin to cloud when a temperature of 30 ' C. is reached , and give a coagulum between 32 ' and 40 ' C. * * * S * Loc .
cit. , pp. 154 , 155 .
t 'Myologische Unter suchungen , ' 1860 .
'Ueber das Protaplasma und die Contractilitat/ Leipzig# 1864 .
Muller 's 'Archiv , ' 1859 .
| ' Journ. of Physiol , ' vol. 8 , p. 133 , 1887 .
S 'Arch .
f. exp .
Path .
u. Pharm. , ' vol. 36 , p. 231 , 1895 .
|| Loc .
cit. , p. 243 .
U Loc .
cit. , p. 238 .
THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
The maximum effect is produced at 35 ' C. The coagulation-temperature is markedly affected by the quantity of salt present in the solution .
( 6 .
) A nucleo-proteid ( Pekelharing# ) which is only present in small quantities .
In the muscle-plasma of the rabbit there is one very important difference , viz. , that soluble myogen-fibrin , if present at all , is only present in quite minimal quantities .
The main proteids , if not the only ones characteristic of muscle , are then myogen and myosin ( v. Furth ) , and in addition for frog 's muscle-plasma , soluble myogen-fibrin .
Another important point relates to the formation , from these proteids , of coagulated varieties , i. e , , forms of proteid insoluble in the ordinary saline media .
According to v. Furth , the change which myosin ( paramyosinogen ) undergoes is directly into an insoluble form , which he terms myosin-fibrin .
For myogen ( myosinogen ) the change is more complex .
Apparently myogen , in the first instance , becomes changed into a soluble proteid , viz. , the soluble myogen-fibrin we have already described .
This change is remarkably rapid at about 40 ' C. , but much less so at a slightly lower temperature .
Soluble-myogen-fibrin , in its turn , is converted into an insoluble proteid , myogen-fibrin , and thus the series of changes of myogen are completed .
In addition to these proteids there are still other chemical substances in muscle to be taken into account when we are studying the effect of heat upon muscle .
These are the fibrous tissue forming the peri- and endo-mysium and the sarcolemma sheaths .
The sarcolemma is a substance which has been shown by EwaldI to closely resemble elastin in its solubilities .
Halliburton describes a proteid of the globulin class , giving a heat-coagulum at 75 ' C. , as being present in the ground-substance of connective tissue .
With regard to the influence of heat upon tendon and upon elastic tissue , we have in the first place the work of Hermann , | who found that tendon began to contract at 65 ' C. and finished at 75 ' C. In this connection we reproduce a tracing we have obtained from a thin tendon taken from the mouse 's tail ( fig. 4 ) , from which it is seen that the contraction begins at 60 ' C. , is complete at about 64 ' C. , and is followed by a rapid elongation terminating in rupture soon after 65 ' C. The load in this experiment was about 1 gram .
The influence of heat upon elastic tissue has been studied , among others , by Gotschlich , S who found that a piece of ligamentum nuchae shortened on heating and lengthened on cooling for all temperatures up to 65 ' C. Between 65 ' C. and 75 ' C. another contraction occurs which does not disappear on cooling .
A closely analogous behaviour was observed by him|| in a muscle which had been previously brought by heat into a condition of heat-rigor .
* ' Zeitschr .
f. Physiol. Chem. , ' vol. 22 , p. 245 , 1896 .
t ' Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 26 , p. 1 , 1889 .
\ Loc .
cit. S Loc .
cit. , p. 116 .
|| Pfluger 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 55 , p. 339 , 1894 .
If we examine the tracing ( fig. 2 ) which we have given as a typical result of our experiments , bearing in mind the different proteids present in frog 's muscle and the temperatures at which they coagulate , we immediately note an exact correspondence between the two results .
At each of the three temperatures where the proteids soluble myogen-fibrin , myosin , and myogen coagulate , we find a corresponding contraction of the sartorius .
And , moreover , this contraction corresponds in all its minutiae with the range of temperature for each proteid-coagulation .
At a temperature at which the coagulation commences , and v. Furth obtained a clouding of his solutions , we find a contraction occurring , small in amount and slow in progress , Exp. 38.\#151 ; Mouse tendon .
Each break on the curve records a rise of 5 ' C. Total duration of experiment 29 min. 5 secs .
Magnification , 10-fold .
Length of tendon , 19 millims. Contraction commenced at 60 ' C. , but chiefly occurred when 63 ' C. was reached .
Total shortening , 9-4 millims. and as the temperature rises to that at which proteid-coagulation is rapid , so too our tracings show a rapid contraction , which gradually falls off as all the proteid becomes coagulated .
This is true for each of the three contractions observed .
With regard to the fourth contraction , which is frequently more apparent than in fig. 2 , we find that it exactly corresponds with the behaviour of white-fibrous or yellow-elastic tissue similarly heated .
We consequently draw the following conclusions :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The different contractions given by a muscle as its temperature is gradually THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
raised from 30 ' C. to 80 ' C. are caused by the successive coagulations of its proteids .
( 2 .
) This is the cause not only of the contractions occurring at 47 ' and 58 ' C. but also for that produced in frog 's muscle at 34 ' C. , and to which the term heat-contraction or heat-shortening is usually restricted .
This view requires consideration and criticism from many directions .
In the first place it gains strong confirmation from the study of\#151 ; The Behaviour of Muscles of Warm-hlooded Animals Heated .
Bernard* found that the muscles of a rabbit became rigid when the chamber containing the animal was heated until its temperature rose to about 50 ' C. KuhneI Fig. 4 .
x/ O Exp. 52.\#151 ; Fresh gastrocnemms of mouse .
Each break on curve represents a rise of 2 ' C. Total duration of experiment , 40 mins .
1 sec. Magnification , 10 .
Length of muscle , 13-0 millims. Temperature limits .
Amount of contraction .
' C. millims. First contraction ... .
43-51 1-7 Second " ... .
58-63 2-4 Total shortening , 4*1 millims. found that the muscles of a rabbit or dog did not become rigid until the temperature reached 49 ' or 50 ' C. , a temperature which , as he pointed out , corresponds with that necessary to produce the first coagulation in the muscle-plasma of these animals .
* Quoted by Kuhne , 'Myologische Untersuchungen , ' p. 194 , f Loc .
eit .
, p. 194 .
VOL. CXCI.\#151 ; B. T He found further that in the case of the pigeon the temperature necessary was still higher , viz. , 53 ' C. On testing mammalian muscle by the method we have described we find that it only gives two contractions , the first commencing at 44 ' C. and the second at 58 ' C. Mammalian muscle therefore differs from frog 's muscle in not giving a contraction at 34 ' C. This exactly coincides with the fact that fresh extracts of mammalian muscle contain no soluble myogen-fibrin .
The two contractions which are obtained correspond in their temperatures to the coagulations of the two proteids obtainable from mammalian muscle .
This is shown in fig. 4 .
The Meaning of the Variability in the Occurrence and the Amount of the Contractions Obtained at Temperatures above 40 ' C. In examining the tracings given by frog 's muscle it is observed that the second and third contractions are much smaller than the first , although we know that Fig. 5 .
Exp. 24.\#151 ; Sartorius of frog .
Each break on curve represents a rise of 2 ' C. Total duration of experiment , 23 mins .
Magnification , 10 .
Length of muscle , 21 millims. This tracing shows a contraction of 10'8 millims. from 33 s to 41 ' C. , an elongation from 51 " to 53 ' C. , followed by a slight contraction and a second elongation at 59 ' C. THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
the amounts of proteid coagulating at those temperatures are even greater than that at 34 ' C. In attempting to explain this result there are at least two factors to be taken into consideration .
In the first place the forces producing the second and later contractions are acting on a tissue which is already in a state of strong contraction .
In many cases , for instance , the sartorius has shortened to one-half its original length during the first heat-contraction .
In the second place the forces producing the later contractions are very feeble , and in many cases are even unable to Fig. 6 .
Exp. 25.\#151 ; Frog 's sartorious .
Each rise of 2 ' C. recorded as a break on the curve .
Total duration , 21 mins .
Magnification , 10 .
Length of muscle , 19 millims. This tracing shows a contraction of 9*4 millims. from 30 ' to 39 ' C. , a second contraction from 41 ' to 50 ' C. , and a relaxation from 52 ' to 55 ' C. overcome the slight tensions we have employed in our experiments .
We have invariably found that when the first contraction is well marked the later ones are only slightly shown or even absent altogether , unless the tension acting on the muscle has been sufficient to produce an elongation after the first contraction has ceased .
That the first mentioned is the chief cause of the small amount of these later contractions is proved by the fact that when the first contraction does not occur , a condition which , as we shall see , may be brought about in two ways , the later contractions then produce a marked effect ( see figs. 7 and 9 ) .
There is yet another condition , set up by the first contraction , which modifies the T 2 appearance of the later ones , namely , an increase in the extensibility caused by the proteid coagulation .
This change has already been recorded by Gotschlich and others , and we have been able to show , by experimenting with higher loads , that a very decided increase in extensibility occurs with each proteid coagulation.* The contraction , therefore , in each case is the resultant of two changes in condition , the one tending to shorten , the other , the increase in extensibility , tending to result in elongation .
With small loads the result is , as a rule , a shortening , unless the muscle be already in a marked degree shortened , when elongation may occur .
This we see for the second and third contractions in figs. 5 and 6 .
This increase in extensibility also accounts for the elongation observed as following the first contraction in many of our tracings ( see figs. 2 and 5 ) .
As we should expect , this elongation is completely absent when the rise of temperature has been very gradual .
( Compare fig. 2 with fig. 8 .
) Fig. 7 .
o |p M Q *0 / x/ 0 Exp. 58.\#151 ; Frog 's sartorius , which had been heated to 34 ' C. for 65 mins .
24 hrs .
previously .
It was then kept in cold dilute blood , and on the following morning was distinctly opaque .
it gave a distinct but slight contraction on tetanisation .
It was passively stretched , and the tracing ( fig. 7 ) taken .
Each break on the curve records a rise of 2 ' C. There is a contraction commencing at 33 ' C. , though much less than that given by a fresh muscle .
A second contraction begins at 48 ' C. , and is much more marked than in the case of a fresh muscle .
The First Contraction may he Completely Effected at the Temperature at which Solutions of Soluble Myogen can he Coagulated .
If the explanation of heat-contraction we offer is the correct one , it must be possible to cause the whole of the first contraction at the lowest temperature at which soluble * ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1897 , vol. 21 , p. 353 .
THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
myogen-fibrin will coagulate , and we have accordingly tested this experimentally .
We find that the onset of the first contraction is in complete accordance with what we know of the coagulation of proteid solutions when they are heated .
It is known that a proteid may be completely coagulated at the temperature-at which its solution first shows a clouding .
With this point in view we have examined saline extracts of frog 's muscle , and have found that the lowest temperature at which soluble myogen-fibrin can be completely coagulated is 34'"5 C. , though solutions from different muscles show slight individual differences .
This precisely coincides with the results we have Fig. 8 .
x/ O Exp. 59 a.\#151 ; Frog 's sartorius .
The breaks on the record represent intervals of 10 mins .
Total duration , 2 hrs .
17 mins .
This experiment , taken with Exp. 595 , shows that the whole of the first contraction can be brought about at 35 ' C. , though it requires some time .
There is no recovery on allowing the muscle to stand 24 hrs .
At G , the muscle was passively stretched to D. At E , the experiment was broken off for 24 hrs .
, when the muscle was found to have elongated to F. It was then passively stretched to G , and the tracing , fig. 9 , taken .
obtained with frog 's muscle when experimenting to determine the lowest temperature at which heat-contraction can be produced .
We show two tracings illustrating this .
In the first , fig. 7 , the muscle had been previously heated for 65 mins , to 34 ' C. At the end of that time it still gave a slight contraction on tetanisation , though it had become opaque .
The proteid had not been completely precipitated at this temperature , and a small contraction occurred when the temperature rose above 34 ' C. , and simultaneously an increase in the opacity was observed .
In the latter part of Exp. 59 ( fig. 9 ) the first contraction is completely cut out , the muscle having been kept at about 35 ' C. for more than 2 hours .
In these two tracings we would call attention to the marked contractions caused by the later proteid coagulations .
We have confirmed these results in several other experiments .
The muscle invariably behaves as if the proteid coagulation were the sole cause of the heat-contraction .
If exposed to a temperature at which soluble myogen-fibrin coagulates quickly the contraction is Fig. 9 .
'SoV x/ 0 Exp. 59b.\#151 ; Completion of the preceding experiment after 24 hrs .
interval .
The muscle during this time was kept in dilute blood at 10 ' C. The interruptions on the tracing record intervals of 10 mins .
The upper tracing follows on the lower one .
The tracings are to be read from left to right .
No contraction occurs till a temperature of 47 ' C. is reached ; a second is recorded at 55 ' C. rapid and conversely .
We have , moreover , found that the final loss of excitability coincides with the completion of the first heat-contraction .
These experiments enable us to explain satisfactorily the results Gotschlich obtained on exposing muscles to conditions producing partial heat-contraction .
He thereby only caused partial coagulation of the soluble myogen-fibrin , and thus the muscle retained its normal properties to a corresponding degree .
Are Heat-rigor and Rigor-mortis Identical ?
We have in the next place to consider Kuhne 's view that the first heat-contraction is in reality rigor-mortis , the onset of which has been accelerated by the high temperature .
The constancy of the temperature at which this contraction occurs is greatly against this view , for it is highly improbable that a contraction which takes many minutes , even hours , to occur at temperatures just below 30 ' C. should have precisely the same physical causation as one which commences instantly at a temperature only 4 degrees higher .
On the other hand , the ascription of this contraction to the heat-coagulation of soluble myogen-fibrin entirely does away with THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
our difficulties in this direction .
We have already seen that Kuhne considered the opacity produced in muscle exposed for a time to a temperature of 45 ' or 46 ' C. to be due to the production of a heat-coagulum , so that , at any rate for the second contraction , we are forced to the conclusion that the cause is the formation of a heat-coagulum .
Another fact which is against the rigor-mortis view lies in the marked difference in time required to bring about complete heat-contraction when the muscle is exposed to the two temperatures of 34''5 C. and 38 ' C. This difference in time is immediately explicable by the known influence of these two temperatures upon solutions of soluble myogen-fibrin ; whereas , if rigor-mortis were the process at work , it would simply stand out as a curious fact without any immediate and simple explanation .
There is a further difference of great significance which is , that where a muscle is passing into rigor-mortis there is a previous loss of excitability before any contraction occurs , whereas , in the case of heat-contraction , excitability may persist for some time after a marked contraction has been produced .
Loss of excitability from heat appears to progress synchronously with the increase of opacity , which accompanies heat-contraction .
That a muscle , which has been exposed to a temperature of 340,5 C. , for a time sufficient to produce marked heat-contraction , is in quite a different physical state from one in rigor-mortis , is proved by a variety of circumstances .
( 1 .
) It is much more rigid than a muscle in rigor-mortis .
A thin sartorius may be held by one end in a horizontal position , with its flat surfaces presenting upwards and downwards without the slightest tendency to bend .
( 2 .
) It is very opaque , quite white , and without any sign of translucency .
A fresh , carefully-prepared sartorius exhibits a most beautiful iridescence when held up to the light , and it is easy to observe a change in this produced by quite a short stay in a fluid at a temperature sufficient to cause heat-contraction .
( 3 .
) The opacity produced during rigor-mortis is of quite a different character .
It has more the appearance of finely-ground glass than the dense white opacity of a muscle that has been heated .
Moreover , in rigor-mortis the distribution of the opacity is in patches , and it is very rare to find a muscle that does not show this patchy appearance , even after it has been kept for days .
( 4 .
) The behaviour of these muscles to dilute hydrochloric acid ( 0'2 per cent. ) is quite different to that observed with fresh or with rigor-mortis muscles .
There is jnoduced a distinct lessening of the opacity , which is readily observed at the thin edges ; but even after prolonged action there still persists a good deal of opacity , much more so than remains in the case of rigor-mortis or fresh muscles .
( 5 .
) A muscle that has passed into rigor-mortis , when treated as in our experiments , will give heat-contractions , though , as we shall show in a paper we hope to publish shortly , the form of those contractions is greatly affected hy the stage which the muscle has reached in rigor-mortis .
In connection with the production of opacity when a muscle is heated , we must point out that as soon as any contraction takes place some opacity is to be observed , but the amount of opacity by no means runs parallel to the extent of the contraction .
If the muscle be examined as soon as marked contraction has occurred , only a slight degree of opacity can be detected ; whereas , when the full extent of the heat-contraction at 35 ' C. has been brought about , the opacity is most decided .
The first precipitation of proteid apparently produces the greatest shortening .
v. Furth showed that at 30 ' C. myogen was converted fairly rapidly into soluble myogen-fibrin , and we are inclined to account for some of the opacity at the end of the first heat-contraction as being due to a further formation of soluble myogen-fibrin and its subsequent coagulation .
This supposition is confirmed in that the third contraction , which we consider to be due to coagulation of myogen , is never well marked , and this is especially the case when the first contraction has been brought about slowly .
The amount of contraction at 56 ' C. is small , even when the muscle is passively extended just before that temperature is reached .
Does a Muscle Show any Recovery from Heat-rigor ?
We may now turn our attention to the question of the amount of recovery which has been observed after a muscle has been caused to contract by heat .
Gotschlich* apparently regards it as fairly complete , but we have never been able to observe the return of so large a proportion of the original excitability as he appears to have found in muscle which has been exposed to 35'*5 C. We have found that if the temperature be kept at the point at which it just causes contraction , the muscle remains excitable for a considerable time , but that the amount of possible contraction , as measured after a return to a lower temperature , gradually diminishes .
If the experiment be broken off at any time before excitability disappears , the amount of contraction with maximum induced shocks does increase , but never in any degree attains to that given by the muscle before heating .
In this connection some experiments recorded by SchmulewitschI are of considerable interest .
In one experiment ( No. 23 ) a gastrocnemius was loaded with a tension of 50 grams , and the heights of contraction with maximal induction shocks recorded .
It was immersed in a bath of normal saline solution at 16 ' C. , a twitch recorded , then heated quickly to 36 ' C. and another twitch , very much smaller , recorded .
It was then rapidly cooled to 15 ' C. * See his remarks in his first paper , p. 133 .
t ' Mediz .
Jahrbiicher , ' vol. 15 , p. 13 , 1868 ; Wien .
THE HEAT-CONTRACTION OF SKELETAL MUSCLE .
and again stimulated .
This warming and cooling was repeated three times .
On examining his records we noted that after each warming the height of contraction was markedly diminished , showing that recovery was far from complete , a conclusion confirmed by several other experiments of the same nature .
The best explanation of these various results seems to be that , on the one hand , soluble myogen-fibrin is not rapidly precipitated at a temperature of 34''5 C. , and , on the other hand , that the fact that some of it is coagulated in a muscle does not prevent that muscle from contracting when stimulated , though the amount of the contraction becomes distinctly restricted .
The presence of soluble myogen-fibrin appears to be a necessary condition of the contraction of frog 's muscle , for we have always obtained a heat-contraction at 35 ' C. in those cases where a small amount of irritability persisted after the previous application of heat , which was sufficient to produce incomplete heat-contraction .
Heat-contraction is a process quite distinct from the ordinary Contraction of Muscle .
That heat-contraction and the normal contraction of muscle are quite distinct processes , is well brought out by studying the effect of heat upon a fatigued muscle .
We found that a completely fatigued muscle , when heated , gave contractions quite corresponding to those yielded by a fresh muscle .
The total amount of heat-contraction as a rule exceeded that obtained by tetanising a muscle with maximal stimuli .
If , moreover , a muscle be gradually heated whilst it is being tetanised , though fatigue very rapidly sets in as the temperature rises , and in spite of the rapid elongation thus occurring , as the temperature reaches 35 ' C. heat-contraction takes place in the usual manner .
As further confirmation of the complete difference between the two processes , we found that muscles which had lost their excitability to electrical , chemical , or thermal stimuli gave heat-contractions in no way distinguishable from those given by excitable muscles .
Curarised muscles also give the same results as non-curarised .
The Cause of the Shortening .
In considering the mode in which the production of a heat-coagulum could determine a contraction , we have to consider two possibilities .
Either the physical coagulation is simultaneously accompanied by a chemical change similar in nature to that underlying a normal contraction , or the proteid coagulation may set up a fresh series of physical conditions which in themselves are sufficient to determine a contraction .
We shall not be in a satisfactory position to fully answer this question until we know more of the structure of a muscle from the mechanical point of view .
There is , however , a method of producing proteid precipitation in a muscle which may aid in throwing light upon the process .
Kuhne# observed that a solution of * ' Myologische Untersuchungen , ' p. 130 .
VOL. CXCI.\#151 ; B. U potassium sulphocyanide caused a strong contraction of a muscle when applied directly to it , and that this contraction was accompanied by a precipitation of the proteids as evidenced by the production of opacity .
We have employed this salt and confirmed Kuhne 's observation .
The muscle shortens greatly on being immersed in this solution , and becomes very opaque .
It presents exactly the appearance of a muscle which has been heated to 40 ' C. If , now , that same muscle be gradually heated , as in our experiments , we find that practically no heat-contractions occur , and such as do occur are probably due to quite small quantities of proteid still uncoagulated .
Ammonium sulphocyanide we found to exert no effect upon the production of heat contractions .
Thus the action of potassium sulphocyanide favours the view that heat-contraction is caused by the purely physical precipitation of a proteid by heat .
Other facts which also point to the same conclusion are : ( l ) The heat-contraction produced in rigor-mortis muscle ; and ( 2 ) The contractions produced in fresh muscle at about 47 ' C. and 58 ' C. It is , moreover , probable that the precipitation of the proteids in one insoluble form during rigor-mortis is the sole physical cause forming the basis of that contraction .
On the other view , viz. , that the physical is accompanied by a chemical change which latter is the true cause of the actual contraction , we have the series of observations with regard to the production of an acid reaction during heat-contraction .
This change was first observed by Du Bois Reymond , and confirmed by Kuhne# in many particulars , though he notes that a muscle in heat-rigor need not show an acid reaction .
He moreover found that with the heat-coagulation of frog 's muscle-plasma the reaction might or might not become acid .
In our experiments we have found that commonly the muscle gives an acid reaction when heat-rigidity is well established , though cases in which an alkaline reaction is found are far from rare .
In one case in which we examined the reaction of frog 's muscle-plasma dissolved in 0'75 per cent. NaCl as it was gradually heated , we were quite unable to determine any change whatever in its reaction to litmus .
In conclusion , we would point out\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That our experiments lend strong support to the results obtained by v. Furth as to the proteids of muscle .
( 2 .
) That they tend to show that the different proteids are actually present as such in living muscle .
That when we are examining a saline extract of muscle we are examining proteids actually present in living muscle , not disintegration products of more complex bodies .
( 3 .
) That they offer valuable evidence in a positive direction as to the much-vexed question of fractional heat-coagulation .
* Loc .
cit. , p. 184 .

