{ 1871 .
] - On the Computed Lengths of Waves of Light .
21 I phosphorus indicate that the carbon groups contained in codeia are in an I eminently " unsaturated " condition , being capable of taking up several molecules of HI and of HaO , forming compounds not decomposed at 100 ' , 2 equivalents of hydrogen for every C17 being also added on in every case .
III .
" On a Periodic Change of the Elements of the Force of Terrestrial Magnetism discovered by Professor Hornstein .
" Communicated by the Foreign Secretary .
Received July 1871 .
[ From the Anzeiger der k. Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien for June 15 , 1871 .
] Professor Hornstein , of Prague , has communicated to the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna a paper entitled " On the dependence of the ' Earth 's Magnetism on the Rotation of the Sun .
" He shows that the changes of each of the three elements of the force of terrestrial magnetism ( declination , inclination , and horizontal force ) indicate a period of 26^ days .
The periodic change of declination for Prague ( 1870 ) amounts to 0*705 sin ( j ?
+190 ' 20r ) , where #=0 ' at the commencement of 1870 , and a ?
=360 ' at the commencement of 1871 .
For Vienna the range is a little larger .
The range of inclination is nearly one-third of that of declination , that of the intensity nearly 24 units of the 4th decimal ( the intensity in June 1870 was nearly 2*0485 ) .
Professor Hornstein regards these changes of the earth 's magnetism as the effect of the sun 's rotation , and by a mean of several determinations finds for the duration of the period 26*33 days .
This number may con- , sequently be regarded as the result of the first attempt to determine the synodic period of the sun 's rotation by means of the magnetic needle .
The resulting true periodic time of the sun 's rotation is 24*55 days , almost exactly agreeing with the time of rotation of the sun-spots in the .
sun 's equator deduced from astronomical observations ( according to Sporer 24*541 days ) .
IV .
" Corrections to the Computed Lengths of Waves of Light published in the Philosophical Transactions of the year 1868 .
" By George Biddell Airy , C.B./ Astronomer Royal .
Received October 2 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after adverting to the process by which in a former paper he had attempted the computation of the Lengths of Waves of Light , for the entire series measured in the Solar Spectrum by Kirchhoff , from a limited number of measured Wave-Lengths , and to the discordances between the results of these computations and the actual measure of numerous wavelengths to which he subsequently had access , calls attention to his remark that means existed for giving accuracy to the whole .
The object of the present paper is so to use these means as to produce a table of corrections

