]\gt ; molecular volume and , following the usual notation , , being respectively the molecular volumes , and the axis normal .
to the interface .
Then on Young 's hypothesis , that molecular attraction is a .
force which is of constant value over the range , we have for two similar chemical substanoes , for which therefore is the same , That is to say , the would be proportional to the molecular volume .
The alternative assumption , that the attractive force of a molecule of A for one of falls off according to some power of the distance which separates them , yields result that for similar chemical substances , since is equal , the molecular volumes vary inversely with this power .
Thus , if the attractive force be put then The Tension of Composite Fluid .\mdash ; No. II .
By W. B. HAliDY , F.R.S. ( Received October 19 , 1912 , \mdash ; Read January 16 , \mdash ; Revised hIarch 11 , 1913 .
) With the Figures in Table III of the preceding paper ( p. 311 ) as a uide the problem of the spreading of one fluid over the face of another may be approached with some sense of security .
In an earlier ) the equation of a composite surface was found to be when is the tension of the composite surface , and a term depending upon gravity .
Putting , it is seen that spreading will occur only when and , at the limit , that is to the tension of pure water in the experiments under consideration .
Taking , the tension of pure water , we have from the last paper Table I. TA .
TAB. Cyclohexane Octane Oil " " Carbon tetrachloride * Boy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 610 .
When the fluid A is a pure chemical substance , or when it is composed of spreadingarealwaysofthesimplest .
Thefirstaddedsubstanceshavingidenticalinfluenceuponthetension'thefluidforms.aphenomenaof .
continuous sheet on the surface of the water ( B ) , which may be thickened until spreading ceases , when the excess remains as a single lens .
I have met no exception to rule that , when pure A spreads on water , the equilibrium state is a single lens in tensile balance with a uniform composite sheet of A spread evenly on B. This follows from experiment and also from a consideration of vapour pressures ; for let the space above be enclosed , and * Cantor ( ' Wied .
Annal 1895 , vol. 56 , p. 492 ) is wrong in his conclusion that the vapours of fluids which do not " " wet\ldquo ; the surface of water will not condense on to the surface .
Ths saturated vapours of the substances mentioned in Table I will condense on to tap water at the same temperature , as a dew of fine lenses , though in the case of carbon bisulphide owing to the high value of the dew forms only with .
difficulty .
same curvature could co-exist , but the equilibrium would probably always be .
unstable .
The condition of equilibrium therefore is twofold , that the lens and the plane surface are in tensile equilibrium according to tha equation , and 2 ) that the vapour tension of the lens and of the plane surface shall be the same .
When a large lens of a fluid whose vapour pressure is negligible is placed : on water if it is capable of spreading the lens is at once extended to form an irregular sheet , which then proceeds to contract to one or more lensea which are in tensile equilibrium with a composite surface .
] ibrium is reached quickly when salts are present in the water and slowly when the water is of low conductivity .
Taking , for instance , ricinolic acid as an example , equilibrium is reached with tap water in 20 seconds , and with distilled water only after perhaps 20 minutes .
When distilled water is there appears to be a large tangential viscosity which impedes contraction of the excess oil .
As I have already pointed out*the film is at a different .
electrical potential to the underlying water , and the viscosity may be due to the low conductivity of distilled water cklaying the dissipation of electrical energy .
Whatever be the true explanation the contrast is remarkable .
When distilled water is the viscosity is so .
great as to allow the sheet of acid to develop wrinkles and folds as though it were a solid .
What we may picture as happening in all cases is that since the lens is at once pulled out to form a sheet .
From the visible edge of the sheet fluid is spreading on to the surface of , at first rapidly , then more slowly , the flow being impeded by the viscosity of the film and possibly by other causes .
As a consequence of this streaming from the edge the tension of the plane composite surface falls , and as it does so the extended lens contracts .
The sheet formed by the first rapid extension of the lens of frequently is unstable and ruptures .
Circular spaces appear which are occupied by a composite surface similar to the composite surface outside the lens .
The chief features on which I would insist here are ( 1 ) .
the relatively formation of the composite surface by increase in the mass of A per unit area until it is in tensile equilibrium with a convex lens of and ( 2 ) the fact that when a lens of A is extended form a sheet , the sheet is unstable if its thickness fall below a certain quantity .
When the fluid A has a sensible vapour tension\mdash ; such as benzene or ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 84 , p. 220 ; also 1912 , .
, p. 608 .
occupied in forming the lenses , and the relative duration of particular stages depend upon the ratio of the components of , upon their nature , and upon the concentration of electrolytes in the water .
Increasing the i number of components as a rule lengthens the total time and the complexity the phenomena , and the vivid play of Newtonian colours is then very beautiful .
By increasing the number of components a composite sheet may be formed of films of different thicknesses which pass abruptiy into each $ other .
The whole surface shows sharply determined coloured areas , red , blue , green , bronze , etc. , which enduoe for days .
The Tension of Composite Fluid .
317 The phenomena ultimately depend upon the accumulation by diffusion of the most active constituents at the interface , and their complexity and durability are due to ths slowness with which tangential diffusion can occur owing to the small depth of the film .
The phenomena , occurring as hey do on the surface of water , may be said to take place in two S dimensions .
If they occupied the mass of the fluid , that is to say , if they were in three dimensions , the unstable sponges , films , and lenses would yield the phenomena of the colloidal state , and especially of gelation .
The horizontal networks which appear , and which are in an unstable state so far as surface eIlergy is cerned , must represent in a crude way the mechanism of a muscle reduced to two dimensions , for there can be .
little doubt now that the force of muscular contractionl is derived from in the energy of surfaces in the interior of each muscle fibre .
Curves of the change of tension produced by the spreading of A upon water , obtained by Wilhelmj 's method of measuring surface tension , were given in an earlier paper ( loc. cit. ) and it was noticed that , when disturbanoe due to hysteresis of the surface is avoided , the curve for certain substances consists of a series of straight lines .
I add here the curve for pure oleic acid ( fig. 1 ) .
The vapour pressure is so low as to render the error due to FIO .
1 .
vaporisation from the surface negligible , but , unfortunately , the acid leaks past the barriers used to contract the film by diffusion through the body of the water , so that the observed tension tends always to be too high .
In time , the oleic acid completely escapes from the control of the barriers , thus a contracted surface of tension was left overnight , two barriers close VOL. LXXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 2 stl'aight line .
the fuller knowledge now in my possession I regard FIG. 2 .
such curves as characteristic of films composed of two substances at least , an effect on the tension of the surface less than that of the } Measnrenlents of the tension throw some upon the singular features of these curves .
Let it first be supposed possible by the formation of a lens ( as .
by allowing vapour to condense on the surface iu the absence of nuclei ) continuously to increase the mass of per unit of surface area , a point will be reached when an independent surface of pure A is formed .
The therefore at and ends at Ts , both points determinable by experiment .
Of the intervening curve the first portion AB is horizontal or slightly undulating .
Lord Rayleigh interpreted it to be the region in which the quantity of A placed on the surface is insufficient to form a continuous * The sample of cymene used previously was found to contain a small percentage of an impurity with a high boiling point .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 623 .
The Tension of Composite Fluid .
319 sheet .
The objection to this interpretation is the sions of the molecule which follow from experiment .
Taking , for instance , pure oleic acid , the * : depth of the film of acid at the point is of the order cm .
Putting as the diameter of the hydrogen atom , a molecule of the acid regarded as a sphere would have by the Barlow-Pope theory a diameter of only cm .
Perhaps a way out of the difficulty may be found ultimately .
by the point as a critical point in the electric polarisation of the surface , also the calculated thickness of the film of A may be largely in excess of the real thickness , for complete immiscibility of A and cannot be postulated , and some loss must occur owing to diffusion into the mass of B. Lord Rayleigh remarks that " " an essentially different result would seem to require a repulsive force between the molecules ( of oil ) , resisting\ldquo ; contraction film .
There have already ointed out , evidence to show that : the oil spread on the surface is at a different electrical potential to the water .
A repulsion due to the charge on each molecule of oil must therefore exist .
: But this only increases the difficulty , since such a tangential repulsion would , if it operated alone , bring about a fall in the tension before a continuous layer of oil was formed on the surface .
It is open to us to suppose that one of the first effects of the oil is to undo a state of affairs at the surface of the water , namely , an average orientation of the water molecules themselves under the influence of the inwardly directed force of attraction , and thereby to increase the tension of the water , but a hypothesis which goes so far beyond ascertained fact cannot be so satisfactory as the direct explanation offered by Lord Rayleigh .
The significance of the inflection at fig. 1 ) is , I clear .
It is the point where the continuous uniform sheet of A spread on ceases to be stable and any further added quantity gathers into a lens .
This occurs when the tension of the composite plane surface is equal to .
The following table confirms this conclusion .
is the tension at the point as measured by Wilhelmj 's method .
Castor oil. .
Oleic acid Ricinohc acid Ethyi hydrocinnama .
( between and ) Benzene *Camphor is still active on a surfaoe on which a lens of this ester is standing , th6 space above being saturated with the vapour .
lbyleigh fixes the camphor point at order to maintain the surface against loss by evaporation it is necessary to have a flat lens of benzene , th refore Kg has a sensible value , and the tension observed is slightly lower than Tc .
The slope of the line CD is determined partly by the form of the lens or lenses on the surface , that is to say , by the quantities , and the density 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 630 .
' The Tension of Composite fluid Surfaces .
321 satisfied .
This would make equal to the range of the attractive force between the fluids and A if the density of A on the composite surface be put equal to that of A in mass .
is the mass of A per unit area of surface .
The part of the curve , of unknown slope , would then relate entirely to the work expended in forming a layer of a new phase , namely pure and the process is complete at when the tension of the upper face becomes , and that of both faces .
The two tensions are now equal to the tension at , which , however , is that of a single true composite surface .
The diagram ( fig. 3 ) serve to make the explanation clearer .
On it are shown curves for four substances , the point being in each case put equal to .
The scale of the abscissae and the slope of the lines is entirely arbitrary .
At the point on each curve the tension of the composite surface has fallen to the equality , save in the case of the chemically saturated substance , when is always From to the composite surface is stable with resp to infinitesimal variations of the mass of A per unit area , but unstable with respect to finite variations .
That is to say , a lens cannot form spontaneously , because any tendency to a local accumulation of the fluid A will be resisted by the tension of the surface .
But if suitable nuclei are present , or if a lens of A be placed on the surface , condensation must occur .
If the curve from to be a straight line we have , as the equations of this part , ( 1 ) and , ( 2 ) being the mass of A per unit area of surface .
The part is a region of complete instability , hence , as has already been pointed out , when a lens of A is extended to form a sheet , the sheet ruptures when its depth is diminished below a certain minimum .
The form and slope of this part are entirely unknown .
The changes of the vapour pressure of A in equilibrium with the composite surface cannot be followed with any certainty , though something may be said about them .
At A on the curve the vapour pressure of the fluid equation which can be integrated only if we know the form of the function 4 ! .
Equations connecting the vapour pressure with the tension of the cpmposite surface are given by Warburg and Cantor , they cannot be trusted owing to faulty reasoning .
In both cases they are derived by equating the balance of work gained to the change in the potential of the surface when fluid is evaporated from A and condensed on to the surfaoe of , the series of operations performed upon A being essentially those used by HelmholtzS in his calculation of the change of free energy when a quantity of water is evaporated from the plane surface of a mass of pure water , and condensed into a solution of salt in water .
In the final process , when the water vapour is condensed into the salt solution , Helmholtz puts the pressure constant , and the work therefore simply equal to .
This is correct only if the mass of the salt solution be infinite .
Warburg and Cantor follow the procedure of Helmholtz in that they put the pressure of the vapour of A constant while it is being condensed on to the surface of B. This is equivalent to putting constant throughout the operation , and is obviously wrong .
Something may be said in answer to two questions , namely , ( 1 ) at what 'Trans .
Conn. Acad 1878 , vol. 3 , p. 398 .
'Ann .
Physik .
Chem 1886 , TOU .
, 1895 , vol. 66 , p. 492 .
S 'Mem .
Phys. , Part II .
Since is necessarily positive the curve would begin to ascend when becomes negative\mdash ; that is , when for any further addition of A to the surface its vapour pressure falls .
This would happen along ; and \amp ; the fall in vapour pressure would be strictly analogous to that which occurs when spheres of fluid in equilibrium with vapour about them fuse ; to form a larger sphere or a plane sheet .
At therefore , the vapour pressure of A would be maximal .
It vould also be supersaturated with reference to a plane surface of , since along it is falling to the pressure of saturated vapour at E. ; Passing backwards from towards the vapour tension of A at the composite surface is at first greater than the vapour pressure of pure and the surface would be in both tensile and vapour equilibrium with a convex lens of A. At some point the tension of the vapoul at the composite surface falls to an equality with that of a plane surface of pure A. The point at which this happens will depend upon the pressure of the saturated vapour and , since changes only slowly with temperature , the point would fall lower and lower on the line CE ' as the temperature rises .
: That this is so appears from measurements made by Clark* of the tension at the interface of ethyl ether and glycerine , and of a surface of glycerine in contact with a vapour space in which the vapour was maintained in equilibrium with the pure ether .
The quantity is always except near the critical point of ether , when it is .
It is interesting that in both cases the curves which connect temperature and and respectively are sensibly straight lines .
The curve for is at ordinary temperature high above that of but , falling more rapidly , it cuts the latter at about \mdash ; the critical temperature of ethyl ether being The way in which vapour is as it were flung off a surface during spreading points very decisively to a large rise in the tension of the of A at some stage in the process .
Ethyl hydrocinnamate boils at according to Beilstein , and as it is immiscible with water I hoped this ester would serve for measurements of the change of tension produced by thin films spread on water .
It proved , however , to be quite impossible to obtain any measurements owing to the fact that quite large quantities of the ester 'Proc .
Amer .
Acad. of and Sciences , ' 1906 , vol. 41 , p. 361 .
lenses being formed by and cast off from the edge of the main sheet .
The result in the main is that the potential energy of a lens of ester standing on 44 ; : a surface of high tension is partly expended in boiling the ester off the surface .
Any explanation of the variation of tension with the varying depth of the film of A to be adequate must include an explanation of the kable movements of e.g. a pair of lenses of carbon bisulphide on a clean water surface .
To exhibit the movements to perfection the lenses must be small and highly convex .
If they come within about 1 or 2 cm .
of each other they are violently attracted and move directly towards each other until the edges are nearly in contact , when equally violin ropulsion occurs .
In this way rapid alternate attraction and repulsion ocours , always , if undisturbed , accurately along a line joining the centres .
The explanation is I think as follows :Consider each lens when out of the sphere of influence of the other .
Vapour is being condensed on to the water face to form a film which spreads as a film centrifugally until it is destroyed by evaporation .
The lens is thus the centre of an area of lowered tension , which therefore forms a depression .
When two lenses come sufficiently close together these depressed areas fuse and a trough is formed between the centres along which they move\mdash ; the trough deepening as they approach .
With the near approach of the lenses the vapour sheet is thickened until and a repulsion .
The obstacle to the fusion of the lenses which is so obvious is the portion of the curve and a pair of lenses must acquire S a critical quantity of kinetic energy before they can break through it .
A relation found by Antonoff from measurements of interfacial tensions would , when it holds , fix the vapour pressure of the fluid A at the point on the curve as very near to that of a saturated solution of A in B. Using partially miscible substances , Antonoff*finds that the interfacial tension is equal to the difference between the tensions of the two phases .
That is , in !
our notation , , ( 4 ) ; and at the limit when the fluids are immiscible Clearly the relation is not universal , nor even a very common one , for , ffiking fluids sensibly immiscible with water , we have Table II .
Cyclohexane 65 Carbon tetrachlol : id 50 Octane 5 } 53 Castor oil 23 Oil " " \ldquo ; 61 Ethyl cinnamate 24 Carbon bisulphide 56 hydrocinnamate 24 It be noted that cyclohexane , oil " " and carbon bisulphide are exceptions to Quincke 's that TAB is always less than I am at a loss how to criticise Antonoff 's values , since they purport to be ealoulated by the erroneous equation .
This would results 40 to 50 per cent. wrong , but his figures with mine in the very low value for the quantity for alcohols , and in the value found for benzene .
The values for calculated from his figures also with those found by me for alcohols . .
It is possible that though the faulty equation is quoted with approval , the experimental results were obtained with tubes standardised by measuring the tension of some pure fluid whose tension is known .
The explanation of Antonoff 's relation is simple , and its theoretical significance not great .
If water is saturated with a fluid which causes the tension of water to fall , the surface will also become saturated with this fluid .
When this happens is reduced to the tension at on the curve , 'Journ .
de Chim .
Physique , ' 1907 , vol. 5 , p. 372 .
show that the more accurately and rapidly the series of measurements are made the more closely does the curve approximate to a straight line .
The most successful series I was able to obtain with oleic acid is plotted in fig. 4 , and the constants are given in the third column of Table III .
barriers were used to c*ontain the film and , as far as possible , kept touching each other throughout .
The water used was carefully cleaned tap water .
The readings were taken rapidly and were very steady until the first inflection of the curve at ; here , owing to some unknown cause , leakage occuroed , !
the tension rising while the weight was being recorded .
At the tension rose abruptly to owing to the formation of exceedingly fine lenses , each of which appeared under a hand lens as little more than a point .
A further slow rise from to occurred in nine minutes , and during this nine minutes some lyoopodium dust drifted .
away from the barriers on the side 4 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , [ 6 ] , vol. 48 , p. 331 .
Ibid. , 1892 , vol. 3$ , p. 468 .
6 Ts .
26188 27892 28652 67 .
27460\mdash ; 65.4 26503\mdash ; 20046 56.5 55.0 54.6 58 .
49.9 44 .
\mdash ; 40.9 ' Composite Fluid Surfaces .
327 lm of oleic acid .
The rise OP therefore was the bal'riers .
Table IIL 15.658 15.127\mdash ; 15180 15.562 15830\mdash ; 15198 15262 16.694 15.587 16.796 15.486 \mdash ; \mdash ; 14.831 14.467 refer to three separate measurements made with pure oleic acid .
to castor oil .
, the constants are in arbitrary units .
, the units are dynes per linea centimetre and cm .
and we have and But therefore .
and , ( 6 ) ; ( 7 ) and , since is by aeriment equal to a constant , , ( 8 ) where is another constant .
constant the form of these functions must be the same .
We may perhaps proceed a further .
Laplace assumed that the .
function of the attractive force between matter at minute distances is the same in all cases , " " the attraction differing merely by coefficients to densities in the theory of gravitation On this assumption we may write 3 equation ) and is then seen to be a constant , a result which is in agreement with :cS the suggestion of Young that molecular attraction is a force which is constant .3 in magnitude over the very minute range through which it acts .
But the range.in question must be less even than the thickness of the films of oil .
which when spread upon water reduce the tension , for , if be constant , then since ) this last function is equal to .
The physical significance of this last relation would be that each layer of molecules of A spread on the surface is attracted only by the layer of molecules previously there with which it comes into contact , a result not inconsistent with many aspects of this difficult question but altogether inconsistent with the view that the attraction of for A ceases only at the point in the curve .
Though such conclusions , based as they are upon an assumption of uniform density throughout an interface , cannot have great value , they are interesting as pointing to an unexpected simplicity in molecular forces .
The simple spatial relations which are the essence of the Barlow-Pope theory of the molecular structure of close-packed forms of matter also seems to demand some simple law .
If there were , for instance , alternating zones of attraction and repulsion about each molecule , more than one arrangement in space would satisfy the condition of minimal potential , and it would be possible by adequate pressure to compress a fluid to a } which it would continue to occupy when the pressure was lowered .
The unexpectedly simple relation a constant would appear to hold for an interface between solid and fluid .
A large amount of work has shown that when a solute such as iodine is condensed on bo the surface of , for instance , animal charcoal , the equilibrium reached is given by the empirical equation , where is the mass of the solute condensed on to the surface , the final concentration of the solution , and and are parameters .
Putting the area of the surface of the solid as unity , this may be written attraction of for A. When the structure is complete the tension is reached and any further addition of molecules of A to the surface does $ not disturb the architecture .
But , just as there are in many cases two arrangements of the same molecules in the solid state , that of the glass , and , that of the crystal , the former containing the greater quantity of energy per unit of mass , so in the formation of these films of matter the architecture actually reached may not always be that of least potential .
iption of Figures.\mdash ; Save for the diagram fig. 3 the scale of the ordinates is dynes per linear centimetre , that of the abscissae 1 ?
cm .
Lord ( ' Phil. Mag 1892 , vol. 38 , p. 309 ) has shown that the deviations irom Fresnel 's formula for the reflection of light at a liquid surface may be traced to the presence of a fllm of impurity on the surface .
The residual deviation which persists when all such films are swept away may , perhaps , be attributed to the real surface film the pure fluid .
to say with the purest acid which Kahlbaum prepares , further purified by fractional crystallisation .
The line BC has been followed by Miss Pockell 's method into the unstable region , until the end of the continuous line .
The izontal line through marks the tension which is equal to the sum of the tension of the pure acid and that of the interface between acid and water or .
Fig. 2 illustrates a prolonged experiment with oleic acid .
The curve is interrupted at one point where there was an accident to the the result being to alter the slope of the curve .
The curve was : followed without pause , save for the accident just alluded to , to the point [ when the barriers were left in position .
The tension rose in 10 minutes to first dot , and 20 hours later it was found to be at the top of the vertical line .
By again concentrating as much as possible of the oleic acid on to the same area the tension fell to the point marked with a thick cross .
The contraction of the surface from to was made very rapidly .
The ringed dot marks the tension when mgrm .
of oleic acid was spread on to a surface of clean distilled water c in extent .
For this tension therefore grnL and .
The scale of the cissae is based upon this measurement .
The remaining ures are adequately explained in the text .
1.\mdash ; In a previous paper*I pointed out that the mechanical stability of a composite surface is maximal just beyond the point in the curve when the tension begins to fall .
The measure of mechanical stability was the time which elapsed between the formation and bursting of bubbles of a particular size on the surface .
The rise in mechanical stability from zero to a maximum was found to occur at a point some distance lower on the curve than B. The reason for this displacement is simple .
When a film is formed at the surface by allowing a bubble of air to ascend from below , the surface is stretched and the quantity , that is the conoentration of the fluid A spread upon the water , thereby diminished .
The effect is to put the state of the surface backwards along the curve towards the inflection at B. If the film is sufficiently stretched , that is if the bubble is large enough to make , the bubble at once bursts .
The amount of displacement of the rise of mechanical stability forwards along the curve is thus a function of the radius of the bubble of air .
With infinitely small bubbles it would coincide with the inflection at , where theory would place it .
Appendix 2.\mdash ; An attempt to measure the tension of a composite surface in 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 627 .
a convex lens which slowly flattens out .
The flattening cannot be due to an increase in above since the condensed vapour lowers the tension , as is readily seen by admitting a little air sO as to relieve the concentration of the vapour of , when the flattened lens at once contracts .
Append 3.\mdash ; The arguments employed in this paper throw light upon a suggestion put forward by Laplace , and incidentally on that vexed point .
$ the physical significance to be attributed to the term " " density\ldquo ; as used by Laplace .
By the Young-Laplace theory we have for the intrinsic pressure and the surface tension of a fluid respectively ( 10 ) and .
( 11 ) Laplace assumes that , like gravity , is a function depending only on the density of the substance , and we may therefore write ( 12 ) and .
( 13 ) From ( 10 ) and ( 12 ) follows It has been objected that the facts do not accord with this relation .
This The Tension of Cornposite Fluid Surfaces .
833 is true , but the cause may lie either in the fact that is constant only for similar fluids\mdash ; that is for fluids of the same chemical type , or in the difficulty in identifying the density of Laplace 's theory with a particular physical property .
Comparing equations ( 3 ) of the paper preceding and ( 12 ) we get If the density be taken as a molecular quantity then and .
From this we can derive equation ( 4 ) of the preceding paper as the expression for the interfacial tension .
The expression is now seen to be wrongly derived , the false assumptions being the identity of with , and of with \amp ; .
And for a similar reason the expression is inadmissible .
A- VOL. LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A.

