1893 .
] The Menstruation of Semnopithecus entellus .
169 vertebrae , which appear to be not fewer than nineteen , and may have numbered twenty-six .
The sacral vertebrae are deeply cupped , and the sacral ribs are developed as in Nothosaurus andPareiasaurus .
The sacral ribs form part of the articular face of the first sacral vertebra .
The pelvis is imperfectly known ; the ilium is not so extended as in Dicyn-odonts , and conforms to the type of which is regarded as Theriodont .
The pubis and ischium are united together on the Dicynodont plan , but are only moderately developed .
The scapular arch is completely known , and is formed of scapula , coracoid , and pre-coracoid as in Dicynodon and Pareiasaurus .
The humerus and bones of the fore limb were relatively short , and only fragments have been preserved which appear to be referable to ulna and radius .
The hind limb is known from several examples of the femur , which resembles that of Pareiasaurus in the proximal end , but at the distal end is more like the type described as Saurodesmus .
The tibia is known from its proximal and distal ends ; it has a general resemblance to that of Pareiasaurus , but is more slender .
These types are regarded as , constituting a distinct group , named Deuterosauria , which is in many respects intermediate between the Placodontia and Theriodontia , but in skull structure appears also to ; approach Nothosaurs and Plesiosaurs .
XIV .
" The Menstruation of Semnopithecus .
" By Walter Heap , M.A. , Balfour Student at the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster Sec.- R.S. Beceived May 16 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The specimens used in the following investigation were collected in Calcutta in 1891 .
The phenomena attending menstruation are grouped into four periods , and these are subdivided into eight stages : A. Period of rest .
Stage I. The resting stage .
B. Period of growth .
Stage 11 .
The growth of stroma .
Stage III .
The growth of vessels .
C. Period of degeneration .
Stage IV .
The breaking down of vessels .
Stage V. The formation of lacunae .
Stage VI .
The rupture of lacunae .
Stage VII .
The formation of the menstrual clot .
D. Period of recuperation .
Stage VIII .
The recuperation stage .
The body of the uterus consists of an internal mucosa and external muscle layers .
The mucosa is composed of uterine and glandular epithelium , blood vessels , a few radial muscles , and stroma .
The yj0 Mr. W , Heap , \#163 ; June 15 , stroma has the appearance of embryonic mesoderm , the internnclear protoplasm is drawn out into very delicate processes forming a continuous network ; .there is no intercellular substance to be seen , and a few long radial fibrils are present during the lasting stage only .
It is a very primitive tissue .
Period A. Stage I.\#151 ; The uterine epithelium is a single row of cubical cells ; its outer edge is sharply defined in section but the protoplasm of the base of the cells is continuous with the protoplasmic processes of the stroma .
The glandular epithelial cells are columnar ; they rest on a basement membrane but have no sheath .
Round nuclei are embedded in the protoplasmic network of the stroma , which is evenly disposed for one-third of the depth of the mucosa , while below that a few radially arranged fibrils occur .
The blood vessels are small and fairly numerous .
Period J5 .
Stage II.\#151 ; An increase in the number of the nuclei of the stroma by amitotic division and probably by fragmentation , causes swelling and increase of density in the upper third of the mucosa\#151 ; hyperplasia .
Owing to pressure the nuclei become fusiform .
An enlargement of vessels takes place .
No decidual cells are formed .
Stage III.\#151 ; The mucosa is further swollen .
The epithelium is stretched and becomes thinner .
Hyperplasia of the vessels directly below the epithelium takes place and they are congested .
The size of many of the nuclei of the stroma is reduced .
Period G. Stage IV.\#151 ; Hypertrophy of the uterine epithelium of the stroma and of the walls of the vessels appears all over the mucosa : followed by degeneration in the superficial region , where the dilated , congested capillaries break down , the blood contained therein being extravasated amongst the stroma .
The degeneration is probably amyloid or hyaline , not fatty degeneration .
A considerable increase in the number of the leucocytes in the superficial vessels takes place .
There is no migration of leucocytes and no diapedesis of red blood corpuscles , but where vessels are ruptured a few leucocytes are swept out together with red blood corpuscles , into the surrounding tissue , many leucocytes , however , remain attached to the remnants of the walls of the broken-down vessels .
1893 .
] The Menstruation of Semnopithecus entellus .
Stage V.\#151 ; The extravasated blood now collects into lacunae which are first formed within the stroma but gradually extend superficially , displace the intervening stroma elements and lie directly in contact with the epithelium .
The vessels in the deeper mucosa remain intact ; there is no trace of diapedesis and no red blood corpuscles or leucocytes in the stroma in this region .
Stage VI.\#151 ; The lacunae increase in size .
The uterine epithelium and superficial stroma shrivel up and exhibit signs of degeneration .
The epithelium ruptures and the blood contained in the lacunae is poured into the uterine cavity .
Stage VII.\#151 ; Denudation follows .
All the uterine epithelium , a portion of the glands and in some places a whole gland , and a depth of about one-third of the layer of the stroma is cast away , together with ruptured vessels , red blood corpuscles and leucocytes .
Of these substances the menstrual clot is formed .
This is a severe , devastating , periodic action which is very remarkable .
A ragged surface is left behind and the remaining stroma contains , at or near the surface , masses of extravasated blood .
In the deeper parts of the mucosa there is no further change .
Period D. Stage VIII.\#151 ; The recuperation consists of the re-formation of the epithelium , partly from the torn edges of the glands and partly by means of the transformation of stroma elements into flat epithelium ; of the formation of new capillaries in the superficial region out of the stroma cells which surround the intercellular spaces in which the extravasated blood lies , and in the return of this reclaimed blood to the circulatory system ; of the return of the vessels in the deeper mucosa to their normal size and consistency , and of the return of the stroma to the condition of rest ( Stage I ) .
The new epithelium , at first flattened , becomes cubical , and new glands are formed from folds of this epithelium .
The numerous leucocytes left with the extravasated blood are returned to the circulatory system with the latter ; they do not migrate , they do not form new tissue in situ or pus on the wounded surface .
Ovulation .
Out of the ovaries of forty-two specimens of menstruating S. entel-lua only two were found in which recent discharged follicles were seen .
Such a result appears to be sufficient to warrant the statement that\#151 ; Prof. F. 0 .
Bower .
Studies in the [ June 15 , 1 .
Ovulation does not necessarily occur during each , menstrual period , and 2 .
That menstruation is not brought about by ovulation .
The two corpora lutea seen occurred in specimens of Stage III and Stage IV ; during these stages the first great increase of the blood supply to the mucosa takes place , and it therefore appears possible that the increased supply of blood to the generative organs during* the early stages of menstruation may possibly induce ovulation when a sufficiently ripe ovum is present in the ovaries ; there is direct proof , however , that an ovum is not dehisced at each menstrual period .
Conclusion .
Recent observations show that periods of growth and degeneration occur in the mucosa of the bitch when rutting , but denudation is not described .
There is good reason to believe that the period of growth is invariably present in the mucosa of rutting animals , and , as ovulation and rut are stated to be coincident , it appears highly probable that the period of growth during menstruation represents the preparation of the mucosa for the reception and retention of an ovum , while the degeneration period represents the result of failure to fertilise the ovum or failure of ovulation .
I venture to express the belief that the function of menstruation may be thus expressed , but I fail to find any evidence of the origin of menstruation .
Note.\#151 ; Since the above was written , I have seen Marshall 's book on 'Vertebrate Embryology ' ( 1893 ) , in which he also divides the phenomena of menstruation into four stages , identical with my four Periods A , B , C , and 1 ) .
The arrangement was arrived at independently .
XY .
" Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
Part I. Equisetinese and Lycopodinese .
" By .
F. 0 .
Bower , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Received June 9 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Two preliminary statements have already been communicated on this subject ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 , and vol. 53 , p. 19 ) , dealing with some of the observations made during work extending over more than four years .
The paper which I now submit to the Society includes the'detailed statement of results acquired from the Equisetineee and Lyco-podinero .

