246 Mr. O. Thomas .
\#171 ; A Milk Dentition in Orycteropus.'1 ' By Oldfield Thomas , Natural History Museum .
Communicated by Dr. A. Gunthee , F.R.S. Received December 12 , 1889\#151 ; Read January 9 , 1890 .
[ Pl/ ATE 8 .
] Of the few Mammalia in which no trace of a milk dentition has been found , Orycteropus , the Aard-Vark , has always occupied a prominent place , owing partly to the peculiar structure of its prominent teeth , and partly to its very doubtful systematic position .
An opportunity has now fallen in my way of proving that it has after all two sets of teeth , those of the first , or milk set , being rudimentary , and probably quite functionless , but nevertheless so far developed as to be all completely calcified , and to be for the most part readily distinguishable by form and position from those of the second or permanent set .
Among the collections in the Natural History Museum there are two very young females of Orycteropus afer in spirit , presented by Sir Richard Owen , and it is in these that the milk teeth now to be described occur .
The larger of the two measures 18 inches in total length , and the smaller 14 inches .
Each of these specimens has a complete , although rudimentary , set of milk teeth , extending the whole length of the maxillary bones above , and along a rather shorter portion of the mandible below .
None , however , are observable in the premaxillse , or in the corresponding anterior part of the mandibles .
The teeth are all quite minute , and it is-very doubtful whether they would ever have cut the gum .
Specimens rather older than those before me are needed to determine this point .
In the upper jaw there appear to be normally no less than seven milk teeth ( PI .
8 , fig. 1 ) .
Of these the most posterior ( figs. 4\#151 ; 6 ) is by far the largest , has a rudimentary crown , and two distinct roots , anterior and posterior .
The second , proceeding forwards , is far smaller , and is simple and styliform .
The next , the third from the back , is also simple , but is far larger in section , and its base is not closed up in either of the specimens ; on this account there seems to be just a possibility that this particular tooth is not a milk tooth at all , but only the tip of one of the smaller anterior permanent teeth* * These small anterior permanent teeth fall out before the animal is adult , and are absent in the great majority of Museum specimens .
There is , however , an immature skull in the Cambridge Museum which shows the alveoli for no less than ten teeth above ( at least on one side ) and eight below , some of the minute styliform teeth , belonging to these alveoli being still in position .
For the loan of this skul have to thank Mr. J. W. Clark , director of that Museum .
Oldfields ThsOrrucus .
Proo .
Roy .
Soc. Voh.4l.Pl.8 .
Barjea-U del .
etlitk MILK-TEETH OF OEYCTEROPIfS .
West ; Newman imp .
A Milk Dentition in Orycteropus .
247 which it resembles closely in size ; on the other hand , however , its complete calcification is in marked contrast to the soft condition of the other permanent teeth , and therefore it seems safer for the present to call it a backward milk tooth rather than a precocious permanent one .
This question again will be easily settled when rather older specimens are available for examination .
In front of the three posterior teeth there are normally four very minute styliform ones , similar to , and equidistant from , each ether , the most anterior placed close to the premaxillo-maxillary suture .
Their shape is as shown in fig. 3 .
On one side of one of the specimens , however , there is an additional minute tooth near the suture , so that there are eight , instead of seven , milk teeth present in the jaw .
Below , the dentition appears to be in a rather more advanced state of development , so that in the larger specimen the germs of the permanent teeth are distinguishable as well as the milk teeth ( PI .
8 , fig. 2 ) .
The latter are here apparently only four in number ; the posterior one , as in the upper jaw , is large and two rooted , and is placed directly over the germ of what appears to be the fourth tooth from the back in the adult animal .
The three teeth in front of this large one are minute , pointed , about equidistant from one another , and apparently placed in relation to the permanent teeth as is shown in the drawdng .
Between the two most anterior of these teeth there is a larger one , equally elevated in the jaw with them , but as yet quite uncalcified , and therefore no doubt merely the tip of one of the small anterior permanent teeth .
As to the structure of the milk teeth , a horizontal section of the last upper one , ground down in the dry state , presents the appearance shown in figs. 5 and 0 .
The numerous large openings seen in the sections are obviously the sockets into which pulp-papillae have extended , and it is evident that if further material w'ere available , and the teeth were properly prepared and cut into sections , a commencement of the remarkable histological structure characteristic of the permanent teeth would be found in the earlier dentition .
Since then it appears that the three large posterior teeth of Orycteropus , already distinguished by their more molariform shape , do not have milk predecessors , while all the small teeth anterior to them do , and in addition the last milk tooth is markedly different from those in front of it , we ought apparently no longer to look upon this animal as homodont , but instead to consider it as an originally heterodont form in which the incisors and canines have been suppressed to allow free play to the mobile vermiform tongue .
But important as a knowledge of the presence of a milk dentition in Orycteropus is , it does not at present render any easier the difficult questions as to the phylogeny and systematic position of that animal .
248 A Milk Dentition Orycteropus .
Although called an Edendate , it has always been recognised as possessing many characters exceedingly different from those of the typical American members of the order.* It has in fact been placed with them rather on account of the inconvenience of forming a special order for its reception than because of its real relationship to them .
How , as they are either altogether toothless or else homodont and monophyodont + ( apart from the remarkable exception of Tatusia % ) , it seems more than ever incorrect to unite with them the solitary member of the Tubulidentata , toothed , heterodont , and diphyodont , and differing from them in addition by its placentation , the anatomy of its reproductive organs , the minute structure of its teeth , and the general characters of its skeleton .
But if Orycteropus is not genetically a near relation of the Edentates , we are wholly in the dark as to what other Mammals it is allied to , and I think it would be premature to hazard a guess on the subject .
Whether even it has any special connection with Manis is a point about which there is the greatest doubt , and unfortunately we are as yet absolutely without any palaeontological knowledge of the extinct allies of either .
Macrotheriumeven , usually supposed from the structure of its phalangeal bones to be related to Manis , has lately provedS to have the teeth and vertebrae of a Perissodactyle Ungulate , and one could not dare to suggest that the ancestors of Manis or Orycteropus were to be sought in that direction .
Lastly , as the numerous fossil American Edentates do not show the slightest tendency to an approximation towards the Old World forms , we are furnished with an additional reason for insisting on the radical distinctness of the latter , whose phytogeny must therefore remain for the present one of the many unsolved zoological problems .
* * * S * On this subject see especially Flower , " On the mutual Affinities of the Animals composing the order Edentata , " ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1882 , p. 358 , et -j* I have had the opportunity of examining specimens , apparently of a suitable age , of JBradypus , Cholcepus , and Dasypus , and can find in them no trace of a milk dentition , while in each case the tips of the permanent teeth are already formed .
So careful has this examination been that I feel sure none of these genera ever have calcified rudiments of milk teeth , although the possibility remains that uncalcified germs of such teeth may be present in still younger specimens ; and these may yet be discovered by means of section-cutting and thorough microscopical search , a method that I hope will be employed by anyone having the opportunity of doing so .
Nor can I find any rudiments of calcified teeth ( which would in that case be of the permanent set ) in a young specimen of Manis .
X The tooth-change of this Edentate is so peculiar , so very different from that of all other Mammals , including Orycteropus , that it has been supposed to be a recently acquired and not an inherited characteristic at all .
Its presence is , therefore , no evidence of a near relationship between Orycteropus and the true Jtden-tates.\#151 ; January 3rd , 1890 .
S See Osborn , ' American Naturalist , ' vol. 22,1882 , p. 728 .

