]\gt ; March 7 , 1889 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\mdash ; Aitken , John .
Anderson , William , M.I.C.E. Armstl.ong , Robert Young , LieutCol .
, R.E. Ballard , Edward , M.D. Basset , Alfred Barnard , M.A. Bosanquet , Robert HoIford Macdowall , M.A. Brown , Horace T. , F.C.S. Burbury , Samuel Hawkesley , M.A. Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Cameron , Sir Charles Alexander , Carnelley , Professor Thomas , D. Sc. Clark , Latimer , ] ] Conroy .
Sir John , Bart. , Corfield , William Henry , M.D. lnningham , Professor Daniel John , M.D. Cunningham , Professor David Douglas , M.B. Dawson , George }fercer , D.Sc .
ibdin , W. J. , F.C.S. Dickinson , Howship M.D. Dreschfeld , Professor Julius F.R.C.P. Dresset , Henry Eales , F.L.S. Eaton , Rev. Alfred Edwin , M.A. Elgar , Professor ncis , LL. D. wart , Professor J. Cossar , N.D. eming , George , C.B. etcher , Lazarus , M.A. rankland , Professor Percy Fara day , B. So .
Jalloway , SVilliam .
ilchrist , Percy C. Gordon , James Edward Henry , B.A. Hammond , James , M.A. Harcourt , Leveson Francis Vernon , Hemsley , William Botting , A.L.S. Hind , George Jennings , Ph. D. Howortb , Henry Hoyle .
Hudson , Charles Thomas , M.A. Hughes , Professor Thomu McKenny , M.A. King , George .
Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. ydekker , Richard , B.A. MacMahon , Percy Major , R.E. MaitIand , Major-General Martin , John Biddulph , Miall , Professor Louis C. Mond , Ludwig , Ord , William Miller , M.D. Palmer , Henry Spencer , General , R.E. On the Composition of Fater .
Peddler , Professor Alexander , F.C.S. PouIton , Edward B. , M.A. Roberbs , Isaac , F.R.A.S. Ross , James , M.D. Sankey , lvIatthew Henry P. R. , Capt. , R.E. Saunders , Howard , F. L. S. Seebohm , Henry , .L .
S. Sharp , David , M.B. Shaw , William Napier , M.A. Smith , Willoughby .
Sollas , Professor William Johnson , D. Sc. Stebbing , Rev. Thomas Roscoe Rede , M.A. Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Stewart , J. H. M. Shaw , Gen. , R.E. Sutton , J. Bland , F.R.C.S. Thin , George , M.D. Thompson , Professor Silvanus Phillips , D. Sc. Thomson , ofessor John Millar , .
R. S.E. Tidy , Professor Charles Meymott , M. B. Todd , Charles , M.A. Tomlinson , Herberr , Weldon , Walter rank R M.A. Vhitehead , Ch arles , F. L. S. , Professor Gel'ald F. , M.D. The following Papers were read : \mdash ; I. " " On the Composition of lVater.\ldquo ; By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received February , 1889 .
During the past year I have continued the work described in a former communication on the relative densities of bydrogen and oxygen , the hope of being able to prepare lighter than was then found possible .
To this end val.ious modifications have bectl made in the generatiug apparatus .
Hydrogen has been prepared from potash in place of acid .
In one set of experiments the gas was liberabed by aluminium .
In this case the cousisted of a large closed tube sealed to the remainder of the apparatus ; and the aluminium was attached to an iron armature so arranged by means of an external -magnet it was possible to lower it into the potash , or to remove it therefrom .
The liberated gas passed through tubes containing liquid potash , sublimate , Powdered solid potash , and , lastly , a long length of phosphoric allbyBut the ] was disappointing ; the hydrogen proved to be no lighter than that formerly obtained fro sulphuric acid .
I have tried to purify hydrogen yet further by absorption in palhdium .
In hi lecent important memoir , ' On the Combustion of weighed ntities of Hydrogen and Abomic Weight of Oxygcn , \ldquo ; ' Roy .
Proc ]iebruary , 1888 .
Oi course this tube as superfluous in the prescnt case , but it was more Olil e nient to rotain it .
$ ' Amer .
Journ vol. fstl@ \ldquo ; ?
saqYl saqo@ 9 .
uaaq aq$ sueam ) utxtm s $ ; 'sase@ qqtAL poqqau1 a{ paqS St so epsm poqqam .
sodmoo aq $I sasoe@ Snq .
eq 04 @t11qusJdaJ $ ?
S puno5 } uIqmoo ( .
pu Seq.suap suotq q AOJdmt ou uuwm @ os ; .
qou On the Composition of Water .
From the quantity of that gas which proved to be in excess , the calcnlated weight of the residue is subtracted .
This gives the weight of the two gases which actually took part in the combustion .
In practice , the operation is more difficult than might be supposed from the above description .
The efficient capacity of the eudiometer being necessarily somewhat limited , the gases must be fed in out in very nearly the equivalent proportions ; otherwise there would soon be such an accumulation of residue that no further progress could be made .
For this reason nothing could be done uutil the intermediate mixing chamber was provided .
In starting a combustion , this vessel , originally full of mercury , was charged with equivalent quantities of the two gases .
The oxygen was first admitted until the level of the mercury had dropped to a certain mark , and subsequenlly the hydrogen down to a second mark , whose relatively to the first was determined by preliminary measul.ements of volume .
The mixed gases might then be drawn off into the eudiometer until exhausted , after which the chamber might be recharged as before .
But a good deal of time may be saved by replenishing the chamber from globes simultaneously wibh the exhaustion into the eudiometer .
In order to do this without the proper proportiozl , simple mercury manometers were provided for indicating the pressures of the gases at any time emaining in the globes .
But even with this assistance close attention was to obviate an accumulation of residual gas in the eudiometer , such would endanger the success of the experiment , or , at least , etltail tedious delay .
To obtain a reasonable control , two sparking places vere provided , of which the upper was nearly at the top of the eudiometer .
This was employed at the close , and whenever the course of the combustion the residual gas chanced to be much reduced in quantity ; but , as a rule , the explosions were made from the lower sparking point .
The most convcnient of things was attained when the tube contained excefis of oxygen to a somewhat below the lower sparking wires .
Under these circumances , each bubble of explosive gas readily found its way to the sparks , and there was no tendency to a dangerous accumulation of mixed gas before an explosion took place .
When the gas in excess hydrogen , the manipulation was difficuIt , on account of the greater density of the explosive gas retarding its travel to the height .
In spite of all precautions several } mpted determinations have failed from various causes , sucl } as fracture of tho eudiometer and others which it is not necessary here to , leading to the loss of much labour .
Five results only can at PreSellb be and are as foUows:\mdash ; Lord Rayleigl ] .
JJecember 24 , 1888 . . . . . . . . . .
15.93 January 3 , 1889 . . . . . . . . . .
21 , 15.98 , February 2 , . . . . . . . . . .
15.93 13 , Mean . . . . . . . . . .
This number represents the atomic ratio of oxygen and hydrogen as deduced immediately from the weighings with allowance for the residue .
It is to the correction for buoyancy rendered necessary by the shrinkage of the external volume of the globes when internally exhausted , as explained in my former commu .
nication .
* In these experiments , the globe which contained the hydrogen was the same ( 14 ) as employed for the density deter .
minations .
The necessary correction is thus four parts in a thousand , reducing the final number for the atomic weight of oxygen to 15.89 , somewhat lower than which I formerly obtained use of Mr. Scott 's value of the volume ratio .
It may be convement to recall that the correspouding number obtained by Cooke and Richards ( correc.ted for is , while that of Keiser In the present incomplete state of the investigation , I do not lay much stress upon the above number , more especially as the reement of the several results is not so good as sou hold be .
The principal source of error , of a non-chemical character , is in the estimation of the veight of the hydrogen .
Although this part the work cannot be conducted under quite such favourable condltlon8 as in the case of a density determination , the error in the fference of the two weigbings should not exceed gram .
The whole vell ht of the en used is abont gram ; so that the error shou not exceed three in the last figure of the final number .
It is scarcely possible to explai1l the variations among the five numb } due lnel'ely to erl'ors of the weighings .
, necessity of this correction was recognised at an early stage , and , if 1 remember rightly , was one of the reasons which led me to think that aredetermD tion of the density of hydrogen was desirable .
In the meantime , , $4 question was discussed by Agamennone ( ' Atti ( Rendiconti ) .
R. Accad .
Lind ' ircumstances tched mWhen writing m have made inquil.y , and take this opportunity of pointing out that the oredit publication isual tcombustion from two-thirds to contents of the globe .
@89 .
] On the Composition of Water .
The following are the details of the determination of February 2 , chosen at random:\mdash ; Before combustion . . . . .
pointer After , , . . . .
Hydrogen taken Before combustion . . . .
pointer After , , . . . .
pointer Oxygen taken gram .
At the of operations the residus in the eudiometer WttS oxygell , occupying .
This was at a total pressure of inches of mercury .
Subtracting inch for the pressure of the water vapour , we get as representing the oxygen pressure , .
The temperature was about C. Thus , taking the weight of a cent. of oxygen ab C. and under a pressure of cm .
of mercury to be gram , we get as the weight of the residual oxygen gram .
The weight of oxygen burnt was , therefore , gram .
Finally , for the ratio of atomic weights , In several cases the residual gas was subjected to analysis .
after the determination of ebruary 2 , the volumc was reduced by additions of hydrogen to .
On introduction of potash there was shrinkage to about 0.9 , and , on addition of pyrogallic acid , to 01 or .
These volumes of gas are here ured at a of atmosphere , and are , therefore , to be divided by 3 if we wish to estimate the quantities of gas under standard conditions .
The final residue of ( say ) .
should be nitrogen , and , even if originally mixed with the hydrogen\mdash ; the most unfavourable \mdash ; would involve an error of only the final result .
The 0 . .
of carbonic anhydride , if originally contained in the hydrogen , would be more lmportant ; but this is very improbable .
If originally mixed with the oxygen , or due to leakage through india-rubber into the combustion , it would lead to no appreciable error .
The aggregate impurity of , here indicated , is tolerably sabisfaotory comparison with the total quanti of gas dealt with\mdash ; 430 Dr. W. Huggin .
On the of the '2000 .
It is possible , however , that nitrogen might be oxidq thus not mallifest itseIf uuder the above tests .
In meant the water of combustion was examined for acidity , but definite indications of nitric acid .
The slight reddening appeared to be rather that due to carbonic acid , some of whioh , it must be remembered , would be dissolved in the water These and other matters demand further attention .
The somewhat complicated glass blowing required for the combm .
tion apparatus has all been done at home by my assistant , Nr .
Gordon , on whom has also fallen most of the rather tedious work conuected with the evacuation of globes and other , and with the of the gases .
II .
' .
On the Wave-length of the Principal Line in the Spectrum of the Aurora By WILLIAM HUGGINS , D.C.L. , .D .
, F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1889 .
Notwithstanding the large number of determinations by different observers , since Angsbrom in 1867 , of the wave-length of the prin .
cipal ( and frequently the only ) line in the spectrum of the Aurow this value has not yet been accepted as delinitely fixed with degl.ee of accuracy which is required for a final into its chemical .
The uncertainty within rather wide limits , which seems still to obtain , has arisen mainly from the circumstanoe that in nearly all cases the observations have been made with a small vision spectroscope , and under conditions which do not admit of an accurate determination of the value sought for .
About half the number of some twenty-four observers agree pretty well , but among the results given by the others the differences are very large in relation to the accuracy which is required , though they are nol greater , perhaps , than was be \ldquo ; cted from the circumstanor under which the observations were made .
I think it is very desirable , therefore , that I should put on some observations of the spectrum of the Aurol.a which I the year 1874 , but which up to the present time have remaid unpublished .
These observations were made with a powerful speoW scope , and under conditions which enabled me to determine wave-length of the principal line within narrow limits of error .
Tb spectroscope was made by Sir Howard Grubb on the principle of his father , Mr. Thomas Grubb .
It is fur1Jished with " " Grubb\ldquo ; compound prisms ; each has 5 sqnare inches of base , gives nearly twice the dispersion of a single prism of ; about from A to H. The object-glasses of the collimator and telescope are inoh

