A paper was also in part read , entitled , " On the Thermal Changes accompanying Basic Substitutions .
" By Thomas Andrews , M.D. , M.R.I.A. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Belfast Institutiong Communicated by M. Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The author gives an account of a series of experiments which he made on the heat evolved during the mutual reaction of acids and bases upon one another , from which he draws the general conclusion that when the influence of all extraneous circumstances is eliminated from the result , the change of temperature is determined by the nature of the base , and not by the acid element of the combination .
Hence he deduces the general law that , when one base displaces another from any of its neutral combinations with an acid , the heat evolved or abstracted is always the same , whatever the acid element may be , provided the bases are the same .
The base employed in the first set of experiments for displacing others was the hydrate of potash in a state of dilute solution of known strength ; this was rapidly mixed , in a suitable apparatus , with an equivalent solution of the salt to be decomposed ; the change of temperature which resulted was accurately determined , and the due corrections for the influence of the vessels and the specific heats of the solutions and of the precipitates produced , were applied .
The experimental results are stated in various tables , from which it appears that the changes of temperature , referred to 1000 parts of water , were , with salts of o0 Lime ... . .
from 0-33 to 0-38 Magnesia ... 0'10 , , 015 Barytes , ... O0 Strontia ... , , 0O 0 0 O Soda ... from + 0-4 to + 0-14 Ammonia. .
, , + 0*72 , , + 0'73 Manganese. .
, + 104 , , + 1.15 Proto-salts of iron .
, + 1'58 , + 1P63 Zinc ... .
, + 1-71 , + 182 Mercury ... , + 181 , , + 189 Lead ... , , + 2*77 , + 2-90 Copper. .
, , + 290 , + 3*18 Silver ... + 3'90 , , + 394 Sesquisalts of iron .
, , + 4-25 , , 4-28 The differences in the results of experiments with different acids , the author observes , are not greater than usually occur in chemical reactions , in consequence of the uncertainty that exists with regard to the accurate proportions of chemical equivalents .
He points out various circumstances in experiments of this nature , which tend to affect the results and lead to inaccurate conclusions , if care be not taken to guard against these sources of error .
One of the principal of these is the heat which is generally evolved by the separation of a base , or new compound , in a solid form : and the author discusses the influence of this change on the results deduced from his experiments .
He considers that these experiments sufficiently establish the general principle announced in the beginning of his paper .
A supplementary note is added on the determination of the Specific Heat of Fluids .

