III .
" On the Uncliminated Instrumental Error in the Observations of Magnetic Dip .
" By CHARLES CHAMBERS , Esq. , Superintendent of the Government Observatory , / Bombay .
Communicated by Lieut.-General SABINE , R.A. , President .
Received April 15 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) A single reading of one end of a dipping-needle placed in a dip-circle provided with microscopes for observing is liable to a variety of instrumental errors , which are eliminated by taking the mean of the sixteen readings of the two ends in the eight different positions included in a complete observation .
Nevertheless it is found that with the best modern instruments a mean value results from these sixteen observations different for each different needle , and that the difference between the results obtained with two different needles is not the same at all times .
The irregularities in the values of the dip observed at Bombay with two needles of excellent character made by Barrow of London , led the author to investigate the effect of a hypothetical irregularity in the shape of the axle of the needle , such that a section of the axle by a plane perpendicular to its axis would be elliptical instead of circular in form .
Another source of error , which was brought to the notice of the Royal Society many years ago in a paper published in the Proceedings , is the displacement of the centre of gravity of the needle from the centre of the axle , combined with inequality in the magnetization of the needle when the poles are direct and reversed .
Experience has led the author to the conclusion that the usual method of magnetization , by a definite number of passes of the same pair of bar-magnets , communicates magnetism to the needle very unequally when the one end of the needle is made north and when the other end is made north .
Consequently it is advisable to investigate the effects of ellipticity of the axle and of displacement of the centre of gravity at the same time , which the author proceeds to do .
As each of these errors depends upon two independent unknown quantities , suppose the excentricity and the azimuth of the major axis of the elliptic section of the axle for the first , and the two coordinates of the centre of gravity , referred to axes in the plane of motion of the needle and passing through the centre of the axle , for the second , the equation connecting the true and apparent dip , in any one position of the needle and of the face of the dip-circle , will involve four unknown quantities depending on the above errors .
If we suppose the instrumental errors small , so that the apparent dip does not much differ from the true dip , these four unknown quantities will appear as coefficients respectively of the sine and of the cosine of twice the dip for the elliptic error , and of the sine and the cosine of the dip for the error of excentricity of the centre of gravity , and will be divided in each case by the magnetic moment of the needle .
On taking the mean of the apparent dips in the four usual positions of the needle and of the dip-circle before the magnetism of the needle is reversed , two of the terms , one for each error , disappear , and there results for the difference between the true dip 0 and the mean of the four apparent dips ( 0 ' ) an equation of the form n'(-B ) = ( ')- , ... ... .
( 1 ) where n ' is the reciprocal of the magnetic moment of the needle , and A and B are the constants depending on the errors of the pivot and of the centre of gravity respectively .
These two quantities are constant only for the same place , the first involving as a factor the sine of twice the dip divided by the total force , the second the cosine of the dip divided by the total fo:rce .
Now let the poles be reversed in the usual way , and let n " be the reciprocal of the magnetic moment , and ( 0 " ) the mean apparent dip in the four positions after remagnetization ; then n"(A+tB)-=(0")--0 ... ... . .
( 2 ) The equations ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) contain three unknown quantities A , B , 0 ; but if we repeat the observations with the difference that this time the needle is magnetized as weakly as is consistent with the condition that the apparent shall not greatly differ from the true dip , we shall obtain two more equations of the form n " ' ( A-B)=(0 ' " ) -0 , n".(A + B)=(0'd"")--0 ; and these four equations , when suitably combined , will determine the values of the three unknown quantities A , B , 0 .
The magnetic moments involved in these equations may be determined with little trouble , and with sufficient accuracy , by placing the needle as a deflector on a unifilar magnetometer , and observing the angle of deflection produced thereby upon the suspended magnet .
A series of observations has been commenced by the author with the view of testing whether the true dip can be determined exactly with a single needle by the method above described , the results of which he hopes to communicate to the Royal Society hereafter .

