1877 .
] Sir G. B. Airy on the Tides at Malta .
December 6 , 1877 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents:\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. Abel .
Dr. Earr .
Prof. Henry Smith .
Dr. Allen Thomson .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
* The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Tides at Malta .
" By Sir G. B. Airy , K.C.B. , Astronomer Royal .
Received July 14 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) , a self-registering tide-gauge had been erected in the harbour of La Valetta , and records had been made with it continuously from 1871 , March 31 , to April 28 , and with interruptions through other days , under the care of Admiral Sir Cooper Key , Naval Commander at Malta ; and the register sheets were placed in the hands of the Astronomer Royal .
They form a band about 60 feet long .
I The first step required to make the observations available was to eliminate the effects of frequent non-tidal undulations , whose period is approximately 2Lm .
This was done by carefully bisecting the intervals between adjacent elevations and depressions in about 1100 instances , and drawing a pencilled curve through the points of bisection .
I It then became necessary to consider the best plan of reduction .
It was determined to commence by comparison , in respect of times , with the predicted tides at London , as given in the Admiralty Tide-Tables , which are generally recognized as accurate , and are free from diurnal tide .
The times of London high-water were therefore laid down on the register-sheets ( without regard to difference of longitude ) ; each tidal day was divided into 48 equal parts , and for each dividing point the ordinate of the tidal curve was measured .
The number of measures is about 1900 .
These measures were collected in groups of 6 measures for each group ( or 8 groups for each tidal day ) , and the mean of each group is exhibited | in a Table .
I The method of treating these means of group-measures is then ex-f VOL. XXVI .
^ M 486 Sir G. B. Airy on the Tides at Malta .
[ Bee .
6 , plained .
The object is to express every height on each separate day by the following formulae , in which 0 is the tidal angle , increasing from 0 at the beginning to 2t , or 24h , at the end of the tidal day:\#151 ; For mean height , M ; For semidiurnal tide , P. sin 20 +Q .
cos 20 ; For diurnal tide , .
sin 0+ q .
cos 0 .
The mathematical process is investigated , and an easy practical rule is found for its application .
Thus the numerical values of M , P , Q , y\gt ; , q are found for every day .
The two tidal expressions are without difficulty converted into the following\#151 ; Half semidiurnal range X cosine of ( 20 \#151 ; 2 retard of semidiurnal high-water on the zero of tidal time ) , Half diurnal range X cosine of ( 0\#151 ; retard of diurnal high-water on the zero of tidal time ) , By the formulae , Half-range = a/ ( P2 + Q2 ) or= a/ ( p2+q2 ) for the two tides respectively , .
p Tan 2 retard for semidiurnal tide=\#151 ; , Tan retard for diurnal tide=- .
q Thus the retard of each tide on the zero of tidal time is found for every day .
The adopted zero of tidal time , for a reason given in the paper , is 16m earlier than the tabular time of London high-water : and thus the real time of each of the Malta high waters for , every day is found .
This is then compared with the time of moon 's transit in the Nautical Almanac ; and thus the retard of each high water on the moon 's transit is found .
For more distinct view of the changes the lunation is divided into eight equal parts , and the means of the several classes of results are taken for each eighth part , by a process explained in the paper .
The following are the principal results :\#151 ; 1 .
The value of M , the mean height for each day , has a regular and well-defined luni-menstrual change connected with the moon 's declination .
It is suggested that , viewing the extreme slowness of the change , it is probable that this inequality differs little in magnitude and epoch from the corresponding inequality on the oceanic shores of Spain and Morocco , and that perhaps it gives the best measure of that inequality .
2 .
The semimenstrual inequality in time of the semidiurnal tides is very well marked .
In magnitude it is sensibly the same as that at London , but its epoch is about three days earlier .
3 .
The semimenstrual inequality in height of the semidiurnal tides is also very well marked .
Its epoch is earlier than that for London by about three days ; but the proportion of its coefficient in height to the coefficient of semidiurnal tide in height is greater than at London .
( It is curious that these results should be deduced with such certainty ill S fl p III Si f ip II $i ' i I lj 1877 .
] Prof. Tyndall on Hermetically-sealed Flasks . .
487 and accuracy from tides in which the greatest single coefficient is 3\#163 ; nches .
) 4 .
The mean retard of semidiurnal high water on the moon 's transit is ibout 16h 4m , which may be taken as the establishment at Malta .
5 .
The results for the diurnal tides ( whose coefficient in the mean is ibout 03 inch ) are somewhat discordant , but appear to exhibit a periodical law of coefficients , such as is proper for them .
, The last point for examination is , the character of the non-tidal undu-ations already mentioned .
These , in many cases , far exceed the tidal mediations .
Similar undulations at Swansea had attracted attention many years ago ( ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitan , ' " Tides and Waves " ; and private correspondence with J. W. G. Gutch , Esq. ) .
Lately , however , the undulations of the same character in the Swiss lakes , called Seiches , have been carefully examined by Dr. Eorel ; and there appears to be no room for doubt that the non-tidal oscillations at Malta are genuine Seiches .
They appear to be formed by waves reflected from opposite shores , producing stationary waves between them .
The shores concerned in forming the Seiches of Malta seem to be those of Africa and Sicily .
A Table , exhibiting the principal elements of their intervals and their magnitudes , is given in the paper .
II .
" Observations on Hermetically-sealed Flasks opened on the Alps .
" In a Letter to Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. By Professor Tyndall , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received September 21 , 1877 .
Alp Lusgen , 18th September , 1877 . .
My Dear Huxley , \#151 ; Though the question of " Spontaneous Generation " is , I believe , practically set at rest for the scientific world , you may possibly deem the following facts of sufficient interest to be communicated to the Royal Society .
| I brought with me this year to the Alps sixty hermetically-sealed flasks , containing infusions of beef , mutton , turnip , and cucumber , which had been boiled for five minutes in London and sealed during ebullition .
They were packed in sawdust , and when opened at the Bel-alp the drawn-out and sealed ends of six of them were found broken off .
These six flasks were filled with organisms , the remaining ones were pelluci and free from life .
1 Two or three of them were subsequently broken by accident , but tor six weeks fifty of the flasks remained perfectly clear .
^ \ At the end of this time I took twenty-three of them into a shed containing some fresh hay , and there snipped off their sealed en s wit a pair of pliers .
The air of the hay-loft entered to fill the vacuum produced by the boiling in London .
Twenty-seven other flasks were taken immediately afterwards to the edge of a declivity , which might almost be

