Structures formed in drying Fluid w Particles Suspension .
217 On certain Structures formed in the drying of a Fluid with Particles in Suspension .
" By Catherine A. Raisin , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 1(5 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1898 .
( Plate 2 .
) Past I.\#151 ; 1.Origin and Method of Experiments .
2 .
Classification of Forms produced .
3 .
Conditions and Causes of Formation .
4 .
Possible Applications in Nature .
Part II.\#151 ; 5 .
Results affected by Crystallisation .
Part I. 1 .
Origin and Method of Experiments .
I have frequently had to mount in water , for examination with the microscope , the powder of various rocks .
Certain of the slides , when accidentally dried , exhibited rather interesting forms .
These I showed to Professor Bonney , who encouraged me to try for farther results , so the experiments were continued with various powdered substances\#151 ; many pigments ( vermilion , indigo , sepia , \amp ; c. ) , chalk and other more or less finable rocks .
At first , ordinary microscope slides were used , but afterwards , larger pieces of glass , in each case , generally with a cover-glass placed over the mud .
The results seem to be worth describing , as affording familiar , almost homely illustrations which may throw some light on the origin of certain minor structures in rocks .
2 .
Classification of Forms .
The chief effects produced may be shortly described .
One form shown by the dried powder is that of a winding network ( Plate 2 , fig* 1 ) , which is formed of bent stems , fairly uniform in thickness , giving rise to short branches in different directions , but generally at high angles .
The whole makes a kind of maze in which the broader winding spaces often average from y\#165 ; inch to \ inch in width .
This form arises from desiccation of a fairly dense* mass .
Where it is densest , a coarser maze is developed and the coarser part is earlier formedf ( fig- 1 towards a and fc ) .
* I use this term for a mass where the water is distinctly muddy , mhere the proportion of the suspended particles to the water is relatively high .
t Sometimes the denser mud has been carried forward apparently by the squeezing along of more suspended material ( fig. 1 ) .
Sometimes a greater amount of the solid substance has been left behind , while a less dense mass vwis presstu forward .
In slides left to dry in a tilted position , gravitation carried the gi eater amount of particles towards the lower end .
218 Miss C. A. Kaisin .
On certain Structures The meshes in the network may be occupied by a finer dep arranged in successive curves .
Within a coarser maze , the cm are closer , and the finer material forms a more conspicuous patte ' In other examples , the thick streaks become less bent ( c/ .
fig also fig. 2 ) , and finally straight , sometimes with a terminal kr sometimes forked or branched , generally at a rather acute an From these axes , finer pattern-marks seem to diverge on eit side .
Certain materials usually formed straight axes*\#151 ; these w also developed in other substances under certain conditions , t when the mud was thin , or when its boundary was within the e\lt ; of the cover glass , or when a corner of the cover was upraised : allow quicker escape of the moisture .
Thus the straight axes se to be the result of a more ready retreat of the rim generally due\gt ; a freer evaporation .
While , if the cover was sealed down w Canada balsam , or if denser mud had spread beyond the edge al caked , so as to check evaporation , f a maze was produced .
A fine pattern may be formed either in connection with the thick aggregates , or where these are wanting .
It generally arises from sorting of the material\#151 ; the finer feathers and tufts are built of sm grains , the thick coarse axes of larger .
The fine particles may spread almost continuously ( e.g. , ivory black , light red ) , the depo then becoming more concentrated towards a series of curving lint Similar wave patterns may become fan-like from development crossing radial curves ] : ( fig. 3 ) .
Transverse bars , also curved , extend between straight axes , when these are near together , and where the fine material is abundant somewhat granular substancesS ( fig. 2 ) .
The predominance radial or of concentric or wave pattern is mainly due to the form the area and mode of retreat , since they are shown in the san material .
Feather forms are developed within confined areas , as ovoid bubbles which are contained in the margin of a deposit of vai dyke brown ( fig. 4 ) .
This example ( fig. 4 ) also illustrates other forms .
The mud driet or partially dried , along part of the edge and water from tl included mass then tried to escape .
Thus , bubbles were formed generally elliptical or ovoid , and elongated transversely to tb * Gamboge , Upper Ueadon marl , boulder clay , pipe-clay , some slides of chall a tendency in Vandyke brown , sepia , vermilion , \amp ; c. f This was shown in one slide of Vandyke brown .
In another slide of ths material the cover was not sealed , and although the mud caked at part of the edg ( the part figured in fig. 4 ) , the water escaped along most of the sides , and straigb axes were produced .
+ V andyke brown , Prussian blue , crimson lake , ultramarine , vermilion , sepw chalk .
S Like chalk , pipe-clay , \amp ; c ; not smooth uniform substances , as vandyke brown gamboge , \amp ; c. in the drying of a Fluid with Particles Suspension .
219 3ge , like vesicles towards the surface of an igneous sheet or yke .
Still more interesting are tapering pointed canals , some of hich radiate from the bubbles or from a central point .
Others are enerally branched , often slightly curved , and have a central granu-ir streak .
Near the sealed edge , canals are numerous and vesicles re large and few ; while beyond this part , the canals diminish in umber and finally almost entirely give place to numerous but small esicles .
The intervening mud exhibits various contraction cracks which originated in drying .
Thus , the structures may be classified as :\#151 ; 1st .
Those of coarser threads , ( 1 ) where these form a maze ; ( 2 ) where they produce straight axes usually with terminal ( or nitial ) knobs ; 2nd , the finer pattern , ( 3 ) consisting of concentric or wave-lines ; ( 4 ) forming feathery or fan-shaped tufts ; 3rd ( 5 ) vesicular structures , ificluding rounded vesicles , or tapering canals ; 4th ( 6 ) contraction structures , cracks .
This classification is somewhat artificial and intended to indicate the chief types , between which gradations may be found ; and by combination and aggregation of different forms numerous varieties arise , as may be seen in the few figures reproduced .
3 .
Conditions and Causes of Formation .
It is not always easy to describe concisely the exact conditions that govern the formations since they include at least three variables .
First , the nature of the material , its specific gravity , adhesive character , and the size of the grains ; second , the relative amount of the material , i.e. the muddiness of the fluid mass ; third , the form of the area occupied and the direction of retreat during subsequent drying .
As an example of the influence of the last-named condition .
in one case , when indigo was carried in by a current , the coarser particles were deposited over a triangular or semicirculai aiea , while the finer material spread over the whole space* Further , any pressure or force acting upon the mass during drying may influence the form assumed ; thus bubbles sometimes exercise a resistance on the part surrounding . !
Materials which consist of grains too large and heavy to be easily moved may give rise to a rude attempt at a pattern , thus , oidinary fine sand exhibited a dendritic form , a deep channel or gutter extend-* The corner of the cover-glass was propped up with a few bristles , t Included bubbles sometimes are surrounded by concentric bands of the finer material , as if the bubble favoured a uniform evaporation .
220 Miss C. A. Raisin .
On certain Structures formed ing as an axis , and shallower narrower furrows forming , branches .
In materials which consist of very finely divided particles , variation in the size of the grains is too slight to produce any eff and the result is a uniform pattern .
Thus indigo generally form typical example of a maze .
If , however , the material is smooth a oily , like gamboge , it is very slow in drying , and the general fo : which it assumes is that of knobbed straight axes .
In powders of medium grain the difference in the size of t particles causes marked effects ( e. , chalk , prussian blue , sepia , \amp ; .
If the mud is dense , drying uniformly , a mazy network is usual formed .
A thinner mixture may produce knobbed straight ax .
An intermediate condition in the drying mass gives rise to feathe or fan shapes , or to parallel generally curving bars .
The mode of formation can be understood by tracing successi stages , and by comparing different examples .
When the water begi : to evaporate , the retreating edge of the film drags back the coars particles , leaving behind some of the finer material in a moist co dition .
This afterwards dries , not however quite uniformly , so th it is ranged in wave-like lines , between which clear spaces or unifor thinner material may intervene .
If the boundary is wide the lint will be almost straight , if the margin is narrow they will curve wil smaller radius .
The film of finer material , after retreating , some times advances again in a slightly different direction as was seen i watching it , and two sets of curving lines are thus formed , which partly cross one another .
Meanwhile as the thick film retreats , its rim becomes concai between certain points .
Then the boundaries of adjacent concavitu approach , and in this way the intervening material is gradual ] reduced to a streak .
Inequalities , however , exist within the filn and , where coarser grains occur , or a clot adheres closer to the gifts* these scrape away the finer material , thus clearing paths and leavin intervening streaks , which are radial , often curved and transverse t wave-lines .
The clearer furrows may terminate at a knot of coarse grains , when the force no longer suffices to move these back , so tba they remain isolated or form the initial knob of a thick stem .
Thi may extend as a straight axis , or , if the film of air broadens as i indents and pushes back the muddy fluid , the curving margin inaj form the beginning of a maze or network , such as was describee above .
Between the thick axes fine stuff is distributed on similar principles to those which caused the forms near the edge .
The two dominant structures are the nearly parallel or concentric wave-lines and the radial streaks .
But in this case the finer material if deposited within limited areas by which the forms are modified .
in the drying of a Fluid with Particles Suspension .
221 wave-lines only are strongly marked , they may extend as curving f nsvei'se bars ; if the radial streaks are the dominant feature they i m radiating curves or feathery or fan structures .
A thick mass .
its final desiccation may show cracking like the hexagonal flakes mud at the edge of a pond , or the thick axes of a slowdy drying vterial ( like vermilion ) maybe jointed transversely .
Sometimes llate cracks may form within a mass , as in the example already scribed ( fig. 4 ) .
4 .
Possible Applications .
We have now to consider the possible applications of these simple periments to structures which occur in Nature .
Water , carrying e suspended material , will often penetrate into rocks along a plane .
discontinuity , and drying may then give rise to a " pattern .
" * lstly .
Dendritic forms upon joint or other surfaces are generally garded as the results of crystallisation , and this undoubtedly is oen the case , as frost spreads on a window pane .
But if the .mation takes place under the constraint of a narrow space , it may caused simply by desiccation in the way described above .
It will t be easy in all cases to infer which has been the exact mode of igin ; sometimes the angle at which the branches diverge in the ndritic structure will prove that the formation was governed by ystallising forces ; but it is clear that both conditions often may -operate.f 2ndly .
If no cavity exists along the plane of weakness , and the arser axes are adherent and imbedded within the mass , they might .pear to represent tubular structures\#151 ; to be , as it were , flattened .linders .
In course of time the molecular and the mineral charac-r might be changed , and crystallisation even might take place there in the original or the replacing substance .
Is it not possible lat this may be the explanation of certain puzzling structures .metimes placed as doubtfully organic , such as some of the so-called fucoid " markings , or the peculiar forms in certain limestones P J 3rdly .
These last speculations lead us to consider the possibility of milar contractions taking place in space of three dimensions , as we lay call it , instead of two\#151 ; in the mass of a rock , instead of along its irface .
Thus the principle governing the formation of the land-jape marble , as described by Mr. B. Thompson , S presents some * In some experiments I used surfaces of rock , and obtained results on a slab of ondon clay , of 6late , \amp ; c. , only , as might be anticipated , the forms were coarser ad less regular than on smooth glass , t See note by Professor Bonney appended .
X 'Phis is not intended to refer to the Girvanella forms described by Mr. V'ethered ( \lt ; Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , ' 1890 to 1895 , vol. 46 , p. 270 ; vol. 47 , p. 550 ; ol .
48 , p. 377 ; yoI .
49 , p. 236 ; yoI .
51 , p. 196 ) nor of necessity to Eozoon .
S ' Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , ' 1894 , yoI .
50 , pp. 393 410 , VQh hXW .
B 222 Miss C. A. Raisin .
On certain Structures formed similarity , although there it is the rise of gas hindered by mateu instead of the lateral spread of air , causing the retreat of the wai film which opposes it .
Many peculiar forms assumed by concreti may be similarly explained .
The deposit of an opaline layer with cusped points around a cav*-might be caused by the uniform drying of a smooth , homogene , material .
Modified by crystallisation , it might help in the format .
of agates and chalcedonic deposits.* Igneous rocks have formed from a molten mass which may ge rally be considered ( as pointed out by Lagorio ) like a solution of 1 less fusible in the more fusible constituents , or in some cases it-consist actually of two magmas imperfectly mixed .
As it becon solid the two parts may mutually react in a manner analogous* the phenomena already discussed .
The forms shown in the seconds silicification of certain rocks ( e.g. cherts , silicified rhyolites , \amp ; perhaps afford another illustration .
Though this process is r exactly comparable with the deposits of sediment described abo yet colloid silica might penetrate in different directions , a encountering constant obstacles , give rise to an irregular , almc felsitic structure .
4thly .
In the specimens which show cracking and expansion cracks to canalsy or bubbles , we may see a resemblance to oth forms in igneous rocks ( fig. 4 ) .
Some of the stellate or crucifor cracks remind us of the kind of contraction which , in a semi-solidifi* pyromeride , develops fissures and inlets , afterwards filled by chf cedonic or other deposits .
Further , the grouping of cracks ai bubbles in the drying film of mud , imitating roughly some of tho found within spherulites , would suggest that in certain of these crust may be formed before their complete development .
This wou accord with the view which Professor* Bonney has often advanced , i conversation with me , for certain Boulay Bay pyromerides , J an with the hypothesis which seemed to be suggested by certain Weis pyromerides and variolites : S that the spherulite sometimes follow as it were , an initial formation of a nodule which has arisen by flow brecciation , or other process .
Thus it seems possible that in several points the simple forms * A comparison similar to that with the landscape marble might be made wit the process for the artificial formation of agates described by Messrs. J. I'Ansonan E. A. Pankhurst , ' Min .
Mag. , ' 1882 , vol. 5 , p. 34 .
I Compare with these the branched canals in gelatin described by Professc Sollas , as due to the formation of ice spicules ( ' Trans. Eoy .
Irish Acad. , ' 1890 vol. 29 , p. 427 ) .
+ I believe that this view has the support of Mr. J. Parkinson , F.G.S. , but 1 leave the sentence as it was written about two years ago ( see ( Quart .
Journ. Geol Soc. , ' 1898 , vol. 54 , p. 101 ) .
S ' Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , ' 1889 , vol. 45 , p. 268 ; and 1893 , vol. 49 , p. 152 .
in the drying of a Fluid with Particles Suspension .
223 hTe tried to record may help to throw light on certain structures l processes in rocks .
Applying the principles we have noticed f *e , we might anticipate ( even where crystallising materials are tisent)\#151 ; Lstly .
That mutual interactions may give rise to wriggling or , zy forms .
2ndly .
That greater freedom of molecular motion might cause ire rectilinear forms .
3rdly .
That the relative ease of transmission in different sub-.snces or conditions of a substance may govern the forms developed , fthe difference between the coarser and finer sediment .
4thly .
That the form of the external boundary influences the cuctures developed , so that streaks normal to a rectilinear figure , i radial within a sphere , are caused .
5tlily .
That much depends on the relative permeability of the rrounding magma ; and the solidification in a molten mass , first an external crust , would act similarly to a more impenetrable vironment .
Part II .
To have fully discussed experiments in which any effect of crystal-sing forces is shown would have unduly lengthened this paper , id on that subject some material has been published.* My main iject is to call attention to the results of mere mechanical rearrange-ent , on which I think no distinct notice is available .
But I may riefly refer to a few results of crystallisation .
I experimented ith solutions of various salts , mixed with gelatin , with muds f vermilion , \amp ; c , , and in other combinations .
\#171 ; When solutions of calcium sulphate and of gelatin were mixed i varying proportions , if the solution was weak , crystallisation enerally seemed to start at many scattered points .
At these there ormed small crystals or ovoid grains ( like potato starch-grains , often ompound ) or clusters , frequently spherulitic .
In the intervals was i gelatinous-looking deposit , which had no effect on polar isec i\amp ; * H. Yater , in ' Zeits .
fur Kryst .
und Min .
, ' 1892-6 , vol. 21 , p. 433 ; vol. - , .
209 ; vol. 24 , p. 366 ; vol. 27 , p. 477 .
O. Lehmann , in ' Zeits .
fur Kryst .
un lin. , ' 1877 , vol. 1 , p. 453 .
'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sc. , ' 1855 , vol. 3 , p. \gt ; \gt ; 1.13 , 14 ; and 1856 , vol. 4 , p. 203 , PI .
12 , by J. Glaislier ; vol. 4 p. 201 by J. Spencer ; 1861 , vol. 1 , n.s , p. 23 , by G. Rainey ; 1862 , vol. 2 , p. 128 , by T-Dav es ; .866 , vol. 6 , p. 137 , by R. Thomas ; 1872 , vol. 12 , p. 118 , by Professor Harting .
Roy .
Soo .
Proc. , ' 1866 , vol. 15 , p. 314 , by E. Montgomery .
' Trans. Brit. Ass L867 , p. 127 , by Dr. Heaton .
'Phil .
Mag. , 1878 , vol. 6 , p. 113 , by Guthrie ; Intellectual Observer , 1865 , vol. 6 , by H. N. Draper .
' Trans^Roy .
Micr .
So^ , 1871 , p. 50 , by H. S. Slack .
' On the Influence of Colloids upon Crysta me , \amp ; c. , ' by Dr. W. M. Ord , 1879 .
'Nature/ 1892 , vol. 47 , p. 162 , by r. .
Gladstone .
224 Miss C. A. Raisin .
certain Structures formed As we add a larger amount of the salt solution , the following efv .
were produced : first , the crystallised bodies all became lai'f more crystal-shaped grains formed , instead of the rounded bl , and then , beyond an irregular , clear space around each , the was occupied by a more distinctly dendritic deposit , which fai depolarised .
In a more watery medium , the ovoid grains are i , marked .
From a mixture of vermilion in a solution of the salt results are similar , but the vermilion is in clots or lumps , or s | .
tered granules , with intervening , irregularly shaped spaces !
In slide the clear spaces are rather definitely shaped and anger ' almost as if dominated by crystallising force , yet the crystallising li has formed only small , ovoid grains , clustered rather more thic near the central part of the space .
The formation of spherulitic structures has been described several authors .
Good examples were obtained in these experime with sodium phosphate mixed with gelatin .
A weak solution , o solution of the salt without the gelatin , gave spherulitic struct* though these were small and scattered .
From a stronger min solution the deposit consisted of rounded , gelatinous-looking global more or less aggregated , which , with crossed nicols , showed radi structure and a black cross .
Radial tufts of acicular crystals F calcium sulphate are well known among microchemical tests these were obtained from pure solutions of the salt , or from m tures with " mud , " or with gelatin .
One small isolated drop in across ) of a mixture of calcium sulphate solution and vermilic which dried on another slide , + exhibited spherulitic spheres or her spheres ( their centres being on , or just within , the circumference the drop ) , clustered like those which have been obtained in a sheet g ass w nch had been raised to a high temperature and then cooled n other drops , where definite crystals were formed , the crysfo projected inwards , often with branched , almost dendritic , or skeleto growt .
|| If in certain spherulites a radial ingrowth of crystallit takes place , as seems probable , it would be somewhat analogous this result of shrinkage or skin tension in the drop .
In ceitain examples , where a rather concentrated solution w\#171 ; * \amp ; Tater , ' Zeits .
fur Ilryst .
, ' vol. 27 , p. 489 .
f " Notes on the Micro-chemical Analjsis of Rock-malcing Minerals , " Licut.-Gcnera1 C A. McMahon , F.G.S. ( ' Min .
Mag. , ' vol. 10 , p. 110 ) .
' Man of Micro-Chem .
Anal./ Professor II .
Behrens , p. 7l .
4 , I failed to rejiroonce this structure again , although many variations in i conditions were tried .
S " Address of President/ ' Soc./ 1885 , vol. 41 .
p. 63 .
4 in an n and F. Butley .
by Professor T. Gh Bonney , ' Quart .
Journ. ( Jeoi Boy .
Soc. Proc./ 1885 , vol. 39 , p. 103 , by D. Her in II For the mode of growth and general form of the crystals , compare Lehmani Zeits .
fur Ilryst./ 1877 , voh 1 , PI .
21 , figs. 49 , 50\#171 ; PI .
22 , fig. 84 .
in the drying of a Fluid with Particles in Suspension .
225 ixed with material in suspension ( e.g. , calcium sulphate and ver-ilion ) , a mass of crystalline grains , separated by clear , narrow -terspaces , occupy a definitely crystal-shaped area .
The neigh-uring grains are related in form , the spaces between are bent or rved , the whole resembling micropegmatitie or pegmatitic struc- ?
re ( fig- 5 .
) In the formation of cbiastolite and other secondary minerals , the atrix is often partly included , but in these experiments the more fluid edium apparently separated from the vermilion , thrust it to the edge an initial , crystal-shaped area , and within that formed crystalline .ains separated by interspaces .
The grains generally depolarise liformly , but occasionally are built up of clustered prisms , and some-mes even of slender , tufted needles .
Lehmann , in his classic paper , jscribes the causes of irregular , or interrupted growth as due ainly to the viscosity of the medium or the presence of foreign ibstance* He points to spherulitic and dendritic forms as results , he micropegmatite seems to be one more possible development.f his wouid agree with the hypothesis advanced by Professor Bonney , lat it results in igneous rocks , when the magma is kept at a some-hat persistent , but not too high , temperature ; so that the material robably would be in a very viscous or partly solidified condition .
J While this paper was in progress , I received from Professor lonney the following interesting note ( drawn up by him some years go ) , S the more valuable as made upon one of nature 's experiments , .'he observation adds one more suggestion as to the possible forma-ion of " pseud-organic " structures , that they might originate from .
mixture of mechanical sediment and of a crystallising salt , and he forms in the mud might remain even if the salt were afterwards lissolved .
The note is as follows:\#151 ; " In walking along the pavements during ; he late frost , before the sun or the feet of the public had produced m effect , I was often struck with the forms of the ice crystals .
The pavements were dirty ; much fine mud , brought from the roads on the boots of pedestrians , had been pretty evenly distributed in a thin film .
During the night this had been arranged in rod-like crystals , often 3 or 4 inches long .
These formed groups , spreading like the sticks of a partly opened fan .
They were sometimes * * Zeits .
fur Kryst .
, ' 1877 , vol. i , p. 453 .
f Micropegmatite is closely related to the other forms .
t " On a Contact Structure in the Syenite of Bradgate Pari , Quart , ourn .
Oeol .
Soc./ 1891 , vol. 47 , p. 107 .
, S Of this note , written in December , 1892 , an abstract was sent to Mature ( December 15 , 1892 ) by the author in corroboration of a letter , which had appeared the previous week , from Professor Meldola , calling attention to same phenomenon .
Several letters ( from Dr. J. H. Gladstone and others ) on the same subject were printed at the same time .
' Nature , ' vol. 47 , pp. 125 , 162 .
226 Miss C. A. Raisin .
On certain Structures formed slightly curved , * perhaps about \#163 ; inch in diameter , and \#163 ; inch , thickest .
They differed from the ' frost ferns , ' in a much gref !
simplicity of structure , being more like little bunches of m arranged along a stem than those exquisite and intricate fabrics , !
the ice-world .
They reminded me sometimes of the groups !
actmolite crystals in certain crystalline schists , as for instance at St. Gothard .
These actinolites , on examination under the microscc prove to be not pure crystals , but much interspersed with granir of pre-existing minerals .
It occurred to me that the proba reason for the formation of these ice structures was the impedim* offered by the small grains in the mud to the growth of tiny erysts Only here and there , where circumstances were exceptionally favoi able , a crystal larger than usual would be developed , which , as advanced , gathered to itself other crystalline molecules , Th would be started a bunch of coarse crystals , springingfrom a comm centre , growing more easily in the direction of the axis of t rhombohedron , just as in the case of frost ferns , but they would l simpler , coarser , and arrested by the impediments , instead of delicate flexured by the almost imperceptible inequalities of the glass .
" I obtained on a later morning , strong confirmation of this vie Heavy rain fell all through the preceding day , followed by a cle night , with a ground-frost .
In many places the pavements hi been washed very clean .
On the clean paving stones I saw , n\#187 ; infrequently , early the next morning , fairly delicate frost fen ( though not equal to those on glass ) .
Where the surface had bee a little dirty , the forms were less intricate and coarser ; in sou rather dirty places the old types could be seen .
Postscript .
What is written here was my impression at the tim\lt ; but I have since doubted whether the crystals were not ' muddier than the part around .
It was not possible to examine the pavemen very closely ; also I noticed on a later occasion that the trampling o the film of mud ( prior to freezing ) , which produced a kind of con centi ation in an irregular network of wavy lines or bands , appearei to have something to do with the formation of the flowers .
" This note suggests that analogous processes may be traced ir schists , like those of the St. Gothard , and the mode of formation oi ceitain crystals in schists has been described in papers already published .
j " On this point , however , it is needless to enlarge , as we may hope to receive more results , since Professor Bonney has communicated a paper dealing with this subject to the Geological Society .
Similar forms were noticed on certain days in the winter , 189(1\#151 ; '7 .
^ t " On a Secondary Development of Biotite and of Hornblende in Crystalline Schists from the Binnenthal , " by Professor T. G. Bonney , ' Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , 1893 , vol. 49 , p. 104 .
Also " On some Schistose Greenstones , \amp ; c. , " by the same author , ibid. , p. 94 .
iGt .
2 .
F10 .
3 .
Gaisin .
Rot .
Soc. Proc. , Vol. 63 , Plate 2 .
Fia .
5 .
in the drying of a Fluid with Particles in Suspension .
227 EXPLANATION OP FIGURES ( Plate 2 ) .
'he results shown in figs 1\#151 ; 4 were obtained on glass plates , about 6 inches ) 3 inches , with cover-glasses about 3 inches by 2 inches .
The whole pattern is resented in figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , but fig. 4 shows a small part only of one slide ( magm-t ) .
In each experiment a drop of the mud was placed on the slide , and then ered , so that the mud spread out somewhat irregularly .
In other examples ular results were obtained , after running in material or keeping up a current .
a short time to carry the mud along .
Fig. 1 .
Prussian blue in water .
This was placed on the glass as a large drop , and a ,.y small one was accidentally deposited near by , in which the pattern at a has m developed .
The mud in a few minutes began to show indication of the jure pattern .
Very shortly the film retreated from two edges ( and 5 ) , where \#166 ; a mud was " denser , " and where it dried to a coarse maze .
Afterwards the fine tze formed , and was completely developed in twro or three days .
Fig. 2 .
Chalk mass , somewhat thin ; tilted so that the cloudy chalk gradually flowed \gt ; wn .
In this pattern the rods tend to become straighter , connected by curve ansverse bars .
( A pattern from denser chalk in several cases , not figured , was that ot a coarse aze .
) Fig. 3 .
Prussian blue .
The fine pattern near one edge ( a ) with concentric or wave-ties , and some clearer radial furrows was first developed .
Then coarser bent , ems were deposited , and towards the further margin these became smaller iterrupted , and finally reduced to isolated spots , while the fine material formed ather feathery tufts ( less distinct in the photograph ) .
Dried m about two days .
fine Figl 4 ( x 8 diameters ) .
' From a large slide of Vandyke brown , which formed straight axes and a wave " pattern ( an indication of this is shown at one side of the figure ) , -fart f the edge " caked " in drying , and within it , bubbles developed , often elonga e ransverse to the margin , and stellate cracks or series of cracks .
in 11 .
omewhat faintly marked in the figure , has formed roughly oval s lapec pa xie vesicles or a central streak in the cracks .
Note.\#151 ; Certain sharp lines , partly overlapping the pattern in figs. 3 and 4 , mark she edge of a film of Canada balsam , by which the cover was sealed down .
Fig. 5 ( x 25 diameters ) .
Mixture of a solution of calcium sulphate and vermilion dried on an ordinary microscope slide beneath a cover-glass . .
i The figure represents parts of two long skeleton crystals of calcium 1 ' and l ) in which a micropegmatitic structure has formed .
A small par o crystal ( c ) is shown , the substance of which extends more continuous y. vermilion partly borders the edges of the large skeleton crystals , an is opaque in the figure .
Other black patches in it are compose o a ^ crystallites of calcium sulphate with some vermilion .
The fine scatte radial tufts are similar crystalline needles of the salt .

