[ 443 ] VIII .
On the Development of the Skull in Lepidosteus osseus .
By William Kitchen Parker , F.R.S. S Received November 3 , \#151 ; Read December 8 , 1881 .
[ Plates 30-38 .
] In the early part of 1879 I received from Professor A. Agassiz a large series of eggs and embryos of Lepidosteus , which by the help of Mr. Garman he had obtained from the Black Lake the year before .
These specimens , carefully preserved in fifty-four small bottles , Professor Agassiz put into my hands to be worked out by Mr. Balfour and myself .
A few years before I had received from Professor Burt G. Wilder some larger young of this Fish , which extended the " stages " for us considerably ; and several adults obtained by Mr. Balfour , and one which I received from Professor Flower , made up the total of our materials .
The present communication is the result of my own researches into the growth of the skull and visceral arches .
Mr. Balfour , assisted by my son , Mr. W. N. Parker , has prepared an elaborate memoir on the embryology of this important type , to which are added observations on the structure of various organs in the adult .
When our work was scarcely begun I prevailed upon Dr. Traquair to work out the adult skull , and that piece of research is , I believe , nearly finished , so that this Holostean Ganoid will soon have had a fair amount of attention given to it .
My observations extend over a series of embryos and young from one-third of an inch to four and a-half inches in length .
The larger young are already quite like the adult ; but as Dr. Traquair 's paper has not yet been sent in to the Royal Society , I shall preface mine by a short description of the adult skull : it will give the same interpretation as the promised memoir by my talented friend , for we have had several discussions upon the nomenclature and meaning of the various parts , and are of one mind as to their names and nature .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
Agassiz , Professor Alexander .
" On the Development of Lepidosteus " Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences ( Presented Oct. 8 , 1878 ) ; pp. 65\#151 ; 76 ; plates 1\#151 ; 5 .
Balfour , F. M. 1 .
*Elasmobranch Fishes/ London : 1878 .
2 .
'Comparative Embryology , ' vol. ii .
London : 1881 .
Bridge , Professor T. W. 1 .
" On the Osteology of Amia calva .
" Jour , of Anat .
and Phys. , vol. xi pp. 605\#151 ; 622 ; plate 23 .
2 .
" On the Osteology of Polyodon folium ."Phil .
Trans. , 1878 , Part II .
, pp. 683733 ; Plates 55-57 .
Gegenbaur , Dr. Carl .
1 .
* Untersuchgen sir vergleichenden Anatomy der Wirbelthiere .
' ( Drittes Heft : Das Kopfskelet der Selachier .
) Leipzig : 1872 .
2 .
'Elements of Comparative Anatomy .
' Translated by Jeffrey Bell .
London : 1878 .
Gunther , Dr. Albert .
1 .
" On Ceratodus .
" Phil. Trans. , 1872 , pp. 511-571 ; Plates 30-42 .
2 .
' Study of Fishes .
' Edinburgh : 1880 .
Hubrecht , Dr. A. A. W. " Beitrag sir Kentniss des Kopfskeletes der Holocephalen .
" Niederlandisches Archiv ftir Zoologie , iii .
, taf .
xvii .
, pp. 1-22 .
Huxley , Professor T. H. 1 .
' Memoirs of the Geological Survey .
' London : 1861 .
2 .
'Elements of Comparative Anatomy .
' London : 1864 .
3 .
' Anatomy of the Vertebrated Animals .
' London : 1871 .
4 .
" On Menobranchus lateralis .
" Proc. Zool. Soc. , March 17 , 1874 , pp. 186-204 ; plates 29\#151 ; 32 .
5 .
" On Ceratodus Forsteri .
" Proc. Zool. Soc. , Jan. 4 , 1876 , pp. 24\#151 ; 59 . .
Muller , Dr. Joh. Vergleichende Anatomy der Myxinoiden , der Cyclostomen , mit durchbohrtem Gaumen .
" Berlin : 1835 .
Parker , W. K. 1 .
" On the Skull of the Common Frog .
" Phil. Trans. , 1871 , pp. 137-211 ; Plates 3\#151 ; 10 .
2 .
" On the Skull of the Salmon .
" Phil. Trans. , 1873 , pp. 95\#151 ; 145 ; Plates 1-8 .
3 .
" On the Skull of the Batrachia .
" Phil. Trans. , 1876 , Part II .
, pp. 601\#151 ; 669 ; Plates 54\#151 ; 62 .
4 .
" On the Skull of the Urodeles .
" Phil. Trans. , 1877 , pp. 529-597 ; Plates 2129 .
5 .
" On the Skull of Sharks and Skates .
" Trans. Zool. Soc. , vol. xii .
, part iv .
, 1878 , pp. 189\#151 ; 234 ; plates 34\#151 ; 42 .
6 .
" On the Skull of the Urodeles .
" Trans. Linn. Soc. , 2nd series , Zool. , vol. it , 1881 , pp. 165\#151 ; 212 , plates 14\#151 ; 21 .
7 .
" On the Skull of the Batrachia .
" Part III .
Phil. Trans. , 1881 , Part I*\#187 ; pp. 1\#151 ; 266 ; plates 1\#151 ; 44 .
" On the Skull of the Urodeles .
" Trans. Zool. Soc. , vol. xi .
, part vi .
, pp. 171\#151 ; 214 ; plates 36\#151 ; 41 .
8 .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
Traquair , Dr. R. H. 1 .
" On the Cranial Osteology of Polypteru Jour , of Anat .
and Phys. , vol. v. , pp. 166\#151 ; 182 ; plate 6 .
2 .
" On the Ganoid Fishes of the British Carboniferous Formation .
" Trans. Palseont .
Soc. , 1877 ( Part I. : Palseoniscidae ) , pp. 1\#151 ; 60 ; pJates 1\#151 ; 7 .
3 .
" On the Structure and Affinities of the Platysomidse .
" Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
, vol. xxix .
, pp. 343\#151 ; 391 ; plates 3\#151 ; 6 .
Wiedersheim , Dr. Robert .
fDas Kopfskelet der Urodelen/ Leipzig : 1877 .
The skull of the adult Lepidosteus .
This skull , which belongs to the long-beaked variety , is more than a foot long , and the foremost two-thirds of its length belongs to the " rostrum , " which is gradually attenuated from behind forwards , and then dilates gently at the fope end .
The olfactory sacs are very small , and instead of being placed close in front of the antorbital region , are carried to the end of the snout , and have on each side a pair of holes bounded by small bony plates .
The orbits are a little above half an inch across , and they are bounded by a perfect " circumorbital " series .
The auditory capsules are impacted into the walls of the hind skull , which at the sides is only about one-twentieth the length of the head .
The occipital condyle is behind the skull ; the condyles of the quadrate are in front of the orbits .
There is no fontanelle in the perfect skull\#151 ; that space is entirely covered by large ganoid scutes .
A. On the superficial plates or " .
" Beginning at the occipital roof , we find the hind skull covered with two large plates that represent the parietals ; here , at once , we see how variable these scutes are , which answer to much more than the investing bones in the higher types , for there is , on the left side ( in my specimen ) , an irregularly four-sided " dermo-occipital , " the inner edge of which passes over the mid-line a little .
Thus the right parietal is much larger than the left .
Outside each parietal there is a somewhat smaller scute\#151 ; the squamosal ; this bone finishes the roof .
The two or three small , irregular scutes behind the squamosal are " post-temporals , " and serve as fixing-points to the clavicular series of the shoulder-girdle ; they are post-cranial .
Outside the hinder part of the squamosal there are two smallish additional " temporal " scutes , wedged in above the " opercular .
" In front of the parietals and squamosals we see the frontals ; they interdigitate by large , sharp , sutural teeth , with those bones , and then run on over the orbital region , and over the hinder two-fifths of the rostrum .
They are elegantly narrow-waisted ( taken together ) in the orbital region , and they contract into sharp styles in front , where they embrace the next pair .
These next bones are the " ethmo-nasals , " or superficial splints of the ethmoidal region ; they are close together along the mid line , sharp and narrow between the fore part of the frontals , and then wider ; they reach , behind , within an inch and a-half of the orbits , and then run forward up to the nasals ( proper ) .
These latter are small , short , widely-crescentic plates , that lie on the small , distal , olfactory sacs ; they are the ossa terminalia of the upper mucous series .
The nasals finish the skull-beak above ; below , an oblique transverse plate of bone supports the prenasal pad or remnant of the larval sucking-disk ; it may be called the " prenasal bone .
" The nasal bone sends a process obliquely across the nasal opening ; this bone lies in the membranous bar , which was developed early , dividing the " nostril " into two holes .
Behind and under the prenasal and nasal bones we have the two short thick premaxillaries , which carry some very large , sharp teeth , as well as a rasp of smaller denticles .
These bones have a palatal as well as a dentary region ; and between the two the bone is punched with holes by the foremost teeth of the mandible , as in the Crocodile ; the palatine processes diverge a little , behind , to embrace the vomers .
The vomers are very long , thin styles of bone , closely co-adapted along the mid line of the palatal region of the rostrum up to its hinder fourth ; they have their lower face covered with a rasp of very small teeth .
Outside these there is on each side a larger splint , which reaches from the premaxillary to the antorbital space .
The outside of each bone is bevelled and helps to carry the large sub-marginal teeth ; these are the superficial palatines .
Outside these , on the margin , we have the " maxillary chain " of mucous bones , about fifteen on each side , but some of them are ankylosed together ; they increase in length from before backwards .
The preorbital ( prequadrate ) space is overlapped by the last two of this chain ; these are free ; the larger front bone answers to the free part of the " os mysta-ceum " of an Acanthopterous Teleostean ; the lesser scale to its jugal .
A large splint passes along by its sharp fore end , on the inside of the parosteai palatine , nearly to its middle ; it broadens rapidly at the prequadrate space and turns downwards , as a rounded wing .
It is notched below close in front of the quadrate condyle , and then passes backwards as a large lanceolate splint , which is closely applied to nearly all the inner face of the mandibular suspensorium ; this is the pterygoid bone , the osseous counterpart of the whole palato-quadrate arcade .
Above the broad hind part of that arcade , close in front of the basi-pterygoid articulation , there is a much smaller lanceolate splint , the meso-pterygoid ; it lies inside , but rises somewhat above the obliquely directed suspensorium .
An oblong splint , rather larger than the last , hes on the outside of the lower face of the suspensorium , and is dilated where it fits to the enlargement at the quadrate condyle ; this is the " preopercular " : a very different bone from its counterpart in the Teleostei , and like the lower part of a Frog s squamosal .
These four\#151 ; the superficial palatine , the pterygoid , the mesopterygoid , and the preopercular\#151 ; are the splints of the palato-quadrate arcade ; the rest of the mandibular splints are on the free ramus , and will be described soon .
There is a perfect circum OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
orbital " series of small , thick ganoid scutes , which run before and behind into other tracts , and are not separated as a mere ring .
The upper region is composed of a chain of larger bones than the rest , and this tract is continued forwards as three bones , narrowing forwards , in the preorbital region , over the " prequadrate space .
" Behind and above , these larger bones run backwards under the squamosal until they become the " post-temporals " to which the clavicular bones are attached .
They are the direct cephalic continuation of what in the Teleostei are known as the " lateral line " series .
A row of small scutes runs straight down in front of the orbit from the preorbital band ; the lowest of these binds on the quadrate , over the hinge , and over the foot of the preopercular .
From this angular bone there is an increasing number of scutes under the orbit , and those behind the orbit become a solid tesselated pavement ( part of which I have just described as lying directly beneath the squamosal ) , and this pavement lies on the edge of the lower part of the interopercular and covers all its ascending part .
This most remarkable " interopercular " is much like the preopercular of the Tele-osteans , and might easily be mistaken for it .
It is a huge plate bent upon itself at a right angle ; the ascending part is half the size of the lower region , and whilst covered by the facial " pavement , " itself covers the hyomandibular and symplectic , that part is pointed above .
The lower region of the bone is a large externally ganoid tract , pointed in front , ear-shaped behind , hollow within , and coiled inwards .
Behind the facial pavement , and articulated by a cup-like facet to the " opercular process of the hyomandibular , is the opercular bone ; it is four-sided , but narrow above where it articulates with the post-temporal .
Its broad lower edge is toothed and overlaps the subopercular ; its hind face is free and forms the upper half of the free edge of the operculum .
The " subopercular " forms the lower half of that edge ; it is a bioad plate with a rounded lower and hinder margin , and is uncinate in front and above , where it is wedged in between the interopercular and opercular .
These three bones the interopercular , the opercular , and the subopercular\#151 ; belong to the hyomandibular region .
The splints of the mandible are ganoid where they are exposed .
The main bone is the " dentary " ; it covers nearly all the outside of the ramus and the upper and lower edges within .
On the inside , between those edges , Meckel 's cartilage is hidden in its foremost two-thirds by a long , thin , narrow splint , the " splenial .
The rami of the mandible are close together , half-way , backwards , and then gently diverge .
The coronoid region is very high , large , and incurved .
The " coronoid " bone flanks the front of this part as an oblique splint , and the " supra-angulare " covers the smooth , convex outside , a short , thick , wedge of bone , the " angulare , " is set on to the angle of the ramus .
These five bones \#151 ; the dentary , splenial , coronoid , supra-angulare , and angulare are the normal investing bones of the mandible .
In the lower part of the hyoid arch there are three narrow flattened rays , from an inch to an inch and a-half in length , attached to the outer face of the " epi-hyal " ; these are the " branchiostegals , and they correspond in number to what we find in the Cyprinoid Teleosteans .
Under the skull there is a long beam of bone , reaching to the middle of the vomers lying there somewhat above them , and then escaping , showing a free keel ; this is the " parasphenoid .
" It runs backwards , gently broadening , and then narrowing again and gradually losing its keel , up to the basipterygoid processes , " it flanks them with a small pair of wings , and is then alate again , more extensively , under the " sac-culus " of the ear , and ends as two flat processes under the basioccipital , and nearly reaching to its end .
B. On the endo-cranial hones .
In the hind skull I fail to find a distinct supraoccipital under the roof , for the exoccipitals meet there , and are separated only by a narrow tract of cartilage .
The basioccipital is large , and projects beyond the arch ; its hollow articular face is transverse , and notched above and below .
The exoccipitals are large , and finish the arch above .
The auditory capsule is invested by four cartilage bones on each side , viz. : a large prootic , a middle sized epiotic , and a small opisthotic , and the sphenotic bone which is of the average size , and ossifies the post-orbital angle of the endocranium , where the fore part of the auditory capsules are imbedded .
I can find no " pterotic " under the squamosal .
There are two alisphenoids , and they ossify the basipterygoid processes , but I find no distinct basisphenoid , presphenoid , nor orbito-sphenoids ; although after the brain cavity has retreated , losing much of its front part , a bony plate is found in the presphenoidal region .
This plate is thin , fenestrate , and rests upon the parasphenoid .
I believe that it is formed by the coalescence of the once distinct lateral ethmoids , which were at first formed in the sides of the fore part of the chondrocranium , like the primary elements of the Frog 's " girdle-bone " ( see Plate 38 , figs. 2 , 3 , l.eth .
) .
The rostral part of the endocranium is , I believe , unossified , even in the adult .
The quadrate and metapterygoid bones occupy only part of the mandibular suspen-sorium ; the rest remains unossified ; the metapterygoid bone takes up the part which answers to the pedicle and rudimentary otic process ; a facet of cartilage covers it where it articulates with the " basipterygoid process .
" The hyomandibular is fenestrate and well ossified ; it is only half as large as the mandibular suspensorium .
A short tract of cartilage separates its upper from the slender long symplectic .
The articulare is a strong solid mass of bone , capped by a saddle-shaped condyle for articulation with the quadrate .
The small inter-hyal piece is not ossified , but the epi- , cerato- , and hypo-hyals are ; the long double basi-hyal ( " ento-glossal " ) does not become solid bone , but it is endosteally hardened .
The fore part of the basi-branchial series is slightly ossified , the arches are as well ossified as in the ordinary Teleostei ; thus there are in the first four arches a pharyngo , epi- , cerato- , and hypo-branchial piece , largely converted into bone , the fifth is ossified , but it only has the cerato-branchial element in it .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
First Stage.\#151 ; Recently hatched young of Lepidosteus , 2S to 4J lines long .
At this stage ( Plate 30 , figs. 1 , 2 ) the mesocephalic flexure is at its fullest development , but the angle formed by the meeting of the _para-chordal and pro-chordal regions is very open .
Moreover , the bend appears less than it is , for the snout is very large and dilated , and its axis is coincident with that of the cerebral hemispheres ( Cla .
) and of the mid brain ( C2 .
) .
The fissure , however , between the fore and hind brain ( C3 .
) , and below the mid brain , is very large , and is turned backwards considerably , above ; the notochord ( nc .
) seeks to ascend into this space , but only rises one-third of the way to the top ; the third nerve descends in this cavity to reach the orbital muscles .
In the sectional figures given to illustrate this stage , very little of the primordial cranium comes into view ; it is not yet formed into consistent cartilage , but the " embryonic cartilage " is sufficiently developed to show the cranial and facial rudiments .
The pituitary body ( py- ) is distinguishable from the palatal skin , and it is quite free above , the infundibulum ( inf .
) lying over it .
In both figures ( Plate 30 , figs. 1 and 2 , cZ1-4 .
) the clefts and visceral folds are visible on their inner or hypoblastic aspect ; in the more advanced specimen a rod of solidifying tissue was seen as cut through in six of these , namely , the mandible , hyoid , and four of the branchial arches ( mn .
, hy .
, hr1-4.)\#151 ; all but the ffth , which remains rudimentary .
The heart ( h. ) is seen impacted between the mandibular rudiment ( mn .
) and the yolk ( y. ) ; it thus lies as far forwards as the snout .
The notochord ( nc .
) is very large , and in the more advanced specimen ( Plate 30 , fig. 2 ) the terminal hook of this cephalic end of the rod is fixed in between the infundibulum ( inf .
) and the swelling antero-inferior part of the hind brain ( C3 .
) .
Second Stage.\#151 ; -Recently hatched young of Lepidosteus , to 5-jjr lines long .
In somewhat larger specimens ( about 11 millims. long ) I was able to make preparations of the whole chondrocranium ( Plate 30 , fig. 3 ) : a sectional view is given of a somewhat larger specimen ( Plate 30 , fig. 4 ) .
The section shows that the skull is rapidly straightening , but of course the great clinoid fissure is never obliterated .
This is formed by the primordial flexure , and is always permanent in the Vertebrata ; but the flexure itself is not so great in this type as in the Amphibia and the " Amniota .
" The notochord ( Plate 30 , fig. 4 , nc .
) is not traceable so far up in the clinoid region as it was ; the pituitary body ( pie .
) is still independent of the infundibulum ( inf ) .
In the dissected skull ( Plate 30 , fig. 3 ) the basal and facial parts alone are chondrified , the sides and roof are entirely membranous ; the cartilage is still very fragile , but quite differentiated from the surrounding connective-fibre cells .
The chondrocranium 3 m 2 MR. W. it .
PARKER ON THE DEVELOPMENT proper is at present composed of two bands of cartilage , which run from the atlas to the large suctorial snout ( s.d. ) ; the lateral structures are the auditory capsules and the visceral arches .
The basal pair of bands ( Plate 30 , fig. 3 , iv , , are thickest behind and at the fore end-for two-fifths of their length they embrace the notochord by their inner edge ; they then diverge from each other so as to form a large spindle-shaped space ( pie ) in front of which , for an eighth of their whole length , they approximate , but do not come into contact with each other .
These dilated fore ends of the basal bands are as broad as the parachordal part behind ( iv .
) , but are not so thick ; they are conjugated by a tract of embryonic cartilage , the rudiment of the " intertrabecula " ( i.tr .
) they themselves are the rudiments of the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr .
) .
The bowed interorbital part of the basal bands are the trabeculae ( tr .
) , they are only half the width of the hind and fore parts ; these out-bent bars do not merely fence in the small pituitary body , they embrace the base of the fore-brain .
The free , ascending , blunt end of the cranial notochord ( nc .
) is twisted a little to the left\#151 ; it may curve either way , but the appearance is partly due to artificial pressure ; it is not invested by a large ascending " posterior clinoid " cartilage , as in the for that tract is very small and very late in appearance in Lepidosteus .
The jpro-chordal part of the basal bands is bent somewhat upon the yxxm-chordal part .
Behind the exit of the 9th and 10th nerves and the hind face of the auditory capsules the investing bars ( iv .
) thin out , and end in a sharp edge in front of the 1st vertebra .
The auditory capsules ( au .
) are of a short oval shape ; they are largely chon drifted , but the layer of cartilage is very thin ; below , there is an oval fenestra , still membranous ( au.f .
) ; it is about fcwo-fifths the length of the capsule .
The capsules and the investing bars are only connected together by embryonic cartilage at present ; the convexity of the capsules has produced a corresponding concavity in the side of each bar .
The horizontal canal bulges over the lower convex part , which contains the otolith ; thus there is a rudimentary " tegmen tympani .
" Rudiments of all the framework of the visceral arches are now present , but the segmentation of these parts is imperfect .
The skeleton of the first and second arches\#151 ; mandibles and hyoid\#151 ; is massive ; that of the branchial arches is very delicate .
The pier of the mandibular arch ( p-P0-\gt ; \lt ; ?.\gt ; P^- ) is not a mere " pterygo-quadrate , " as in the Selachians , Teleostei , and Urodeles , but is a " palato-quadrate , " as in the Anura .
This arises from the primary continuity of the ethmo-palatine cartilage with the pterygoid fore-growth of the mandibular suspen-sorium ^ and this is not all , for the palatine region of the bar is also primarily continuous with the trabecula at its dilated fore end .
The " pedicle " of this compound suspensorium is not fixed , as in the Tadpole , but free , as in the metamorphosed Frog ; as soon as it is sufficiently developed to articulate with the basal bar , it will then , at that part , correspond very accurately with what we find in the adult Frog .
At present this palato-quadrate , or suspensorial cartilage is OF THE SKTTLL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
roughly scythe-shaped , the " blade " being behind , and lying between the auditory capsule and the narrowing basal band , whilst the ''handle " is in front , and is glued to the trabecula .
The blade is shorter than the handle , and on its heel it has an oval , condyloid facet , which looks forwards and a little outwards and downwards ; it is pinched a little behind this facet , and then becomes an apiculated lanceolate blade .
The handle is oval in section , narrow at first , and then wider as it turns inwards at its junction with the trabecula .
A free bar , rather shorter than the " handle , " and having its thick end reversed , or behind , articulates by a flat facet with the flat facet of the suspensorium .
This is Meckel 's cartilage , or the free mandible ( .
) .
Already , in the coronoid region , this short lower jaw is elevated into a crest ; its lower edge is convex , its upper concave , and its end is blunt ; it reaches nearly as far forwards as the palatine region of the suspensorium .
Between the convex hind margin of the first arch ( suspensorium and mandible ) and the concave fore margin of the next ( the hyoid ) arch there is a hypoblastic pouch ( see Plate 30 , figs. 1 and 2 , cZ1 .
) , but this first cleft does not open on the outside , like the hyo-branchial and four branchials .
The hyoid arch consists already of four segments on each side , with the rudiment of a median conjugating bar , composed of embryonic cartilage .
The pier ( hm .
) of the hyoid arch , like its counterpart in the Mammal , is anvil-shaped ; this is the hyo-mandibular , with its symplectic process , the counterpart of the pterygoid fore-growth of the mandibular pier or suspensorium .
* At present it is only a fourth less than the pier in front of it ; but it becomes relatively much less , instead of much larger , as in the Teleostei .
The hyomandibular is now a solid mass of cartilage , concave above , bilobate below , and sending upwards , to the auditory capsule , a thick process , and downwards , to the articular process of the suspensorium , a sharp process .
The upper process is its proximal part or head , the lower is its symplectic prolongation .
The middle part has two lobes , below , and behind ; the upper of these afterwards gives off the opercular process , the lower is already scooped on its inside where it articulates with the next joint , the inter-hyal ( .
) .
This latter piece is a small pyriform segment , with its lesser end upwards and hooked inwards , for articulation with the hyomandibular .
This is , so to speak , a supernumerary segment placed between the antero-superior pier and the poster o-inferior arch .
That arch is already composed of a main bar above , the cerato-hyal ( .
) , \#151 ; a thick rounded rod , and a short , almost globular segment below , the hypo-hyal ( h.hy .
) ; the two fit together by flat facets ; the right and left hypo-hyals touch each other below .
In front of and between these lower segments there is a tract of tissue which will harden into the basi-hyal ( b.hy.)\gt ; The branchial arches ( hr .
) are slender rods , bent in a sigmoid manner so as to form round in-turned hooks , above .
The last ( hr5 .
) is only one-fourth as large as the other * Mr. Balfour informs me that this bar is primarily continuous " with the skull , and that after chondri* fication it is still unsegmented .
four , and is permanently arrested as the " inferior pharyngeal ; " it is simply a short cerato-branchial .
The four well-developed rods are not yet segmented across into the normal pieces .
they are oval in section , pointed above , and rounded below , where they articulate with the common basi-branchial ( h.hr .
) , which is one-third thicker than the arches .
This conjugating rod is somewhat flat ; it is thickest in front , where it fits by a rounded end between the hypo-hyals , and flat behind , where it projects beyond the arches .
Third Stage.\#151 ; Young Lepidostei , 7^ to 8 lines long .
In young individuals about two-thirds of an inch ( 16 to 17 millims. ) long , the cartilage has become quite consistent , and some parts not chondrified in the last stage have become solid .
The head ( Plate 30 , figs. 5 , 6 ) has straightened out considerably , and the basis cranii bulges below ; but the sharp , recurved fold under the mid brain , where the fore and hind brain approximate , although a mere chink , is ineradicable .
The round and curiously mammillated snout is much smaller now , relatively ; the notochord ( nc .
) has retreated considerably ; the pituitary body ( pie .
) is still separate from the infundibulum ( inf .
) .
The azygous trabecular bar ( figs. 7 , 8 , i.tr .
) now shows itself in sections taken vertically through the head , but all the rest of the basal cartilage is far from the mid line .
The notochord ( nc .
) is very large , and descends considerably beneath the swelling hind brain ( figs. 5 , 6 , C3 .
) .
Below the mouth and throat , the fore end of the mandible is seen in the right section ( Plate 30 , fig. 5 , mk .
) ; it contained more than half of the head above , and less than 'half below ; thus that rod , and the rest of the post-orals ( hy .
, hr1-4 .
) , are cut through a little on the right side of the middle .
But in the left half ( Plate 30 , fig. 6 ) , the median rods ( h.hy .
, hr1-4 .
) are brought into view , below ; above , the junction of the trabecula with the palato-quadrate ( tr .
, p-jpg .
) is seen ; this , however , had to be exposed by dissection ; the sub-ocular space is seen as a crescentic gap with its convexity downwards .
The chondrocranium is figured as seen from above and below in a dissection of a somewhat larger specimen ( 8 lines long ) ; it is much more perfect than in the last stage ( Plate 30 , figs. 3 , 7 , 8 ) .
A full third of the cranial floor is membranous ; the side walls are membranous in front , and are made by the auditory capsules behind ; but a rudiment of the roof or " tegmen cranii " is now found , right and left .
The thick cranial notochord ( nc .
) is only half the length of the chondrocranium , .
now ; it is somewhat moniliform , lessening by three successive stages , and is bent a little in this specimen to the right .
The narrow part is rounded at its end , and ascends but little into the clinoi fissure ( Plate 30 , fig. 5 , nc .
) ; a third part at least is not invested by the parachord cartilage ( iv .
) .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
The huge so-called pituitary space ( pie .
) is pyriform , has an indented outline behind , and is apiculate in front .
The concave inner side of the basal bands embrace the notochord closely , and end behind in bevelled flaps ; in front , where the last narrowing of the notochord takes place , they end almost transversely , but give off from their outer edge the trabecular outgrowths .
They are quite confluent , externally , with the well-chondrified auditory capsules ( au .
) .
In their broad , proximal part the trabeculae ( tr .
) are dilated , and are perforated by the internal carotid artery ; * thence they converge steadily as scarcely arcuate bands , only one-third as large as their parachordal roots ( iv .
) .
Their front confluent part is as long as their hinder separate part ; and there the bands double their width , have a convex outline externally , and narrowing inwards at their extremity , are continuous then with the palato-quadrate bars ( .
) .
The front margin of these four bands is crenate , with three convexities , the middle enlargement being the largest ; this is not , however , formed by the trabeculae themselves , but by a pyriform wedge of newer cartilage , which has developed between and above them .
This new element is the intertrabecula in the last stage ( Plate 30 , fig. 3 , i.tr .
) it was merely composed of embryonic cartilage\#151 ; a small , inconspicuous tract of tissue , lying between the dilated ends of the trabeculae ( tr .
) .
This new tract does not reach to the pituitary space , but already , in the upper view , can be seen projecting beyond the confluent paired bands ( tr .
, p.pg .
) .
The simple , ovoidal form of the auditory capsules ( au .
) is now lost , for the semi-circular canals ( a.s.c. , h.s.c. , p.s.c. ) have developed greatly , and they have given the form of their curves and swellings to the cartilaginous capsule .
The floor of the sacculus is still largely membranous ( fig. 7 , au.f.)this circular fenestra is inside the centre of the floor ; within , also , the capsule is not cartilaginous .
Outside , the bulging of the horizontal canal ( h.s.c. ) has formed a rudiment of the " tegmen tympani " ( fig. 7 ) ; this , however , is simply used to form the large oblong concavity for the hyomandibular ( Jim , .
) , and never acquires any tympanic function .
The large cranial nerves have free course over the basal plate , and in front of and behind the auditory capsules they have only membrane to pass through ; the space for these ( Plate 30 , figs. 7 , 8 , IX .
, X. ) is seen to be very wide .
From the front of the auditory capsule cartilage is creeping along the superorbital region ( fig. 8 , s.ob .
) ; this new tract is styliform , and at present only reaches one-third of the distance to the end of the chondrocranium .
Below this rudiment , right and left , of the " tegmen Cranii " the proximal part of each trabecula has developed an oblong facet of cartilage for articulation with the pedicle of the suspensorium ( pd .
) ; this is the first appearance of the paired " basipterygoid " processes of the basi-cranii .
I take this to be not only the first appearance of these important processes in * This passage is seen inside the snperorbital cartilage ( s.o\amp ; .
) ; the line leading from the letters to this part in fig. 8 is not long enongh .
the development of this particular skull , but also in the order of the types ; in the Amphibia , Keptiles , Birds , and Mammals these processes are seldom absent .
The dorsal end of the suspensorium or mandibular pier has already become oblique .
the true extremity is now lateral , and is the pedicle of the pier ; this is an oblong tract or facet articulating with the basi-pterygoid face on the basal band .
The second part is the otic process ( behind pd .
) ; it is a subtriangular " ear " of cartilage , running backwards towards the pier of the hyoid arch ( Am .
) , under the superorbital rudiment ( s.ob .
) .
Thence the suspensorium narrows gently , and a little behind the middle of the bar forms , on its outside , a jutting step ; this is the gently concave quadrate hinge which articulates with the mandible ( .
) .
The rest of the suspensorium lessens to one-half its hinder width , and is / -shaped , bending inwards at first and then outwards before it makes its last inward bend to join the trabecula ( Plate 30 , figs. 7 , 8 , p.pg* , The extent of the coalesced part is greater than the width of the bar ; both that part and the fore part of the free bar belong , not to the proper pier of the mandible , but to the palato-maxillary arcade\#151 ; it is the proper " ethmo-palatine .
" In the Tadpole of all , and the adult of most , Batrachia , it is not differentiated from the pterygoid band .
The mandible ( mk .
) has already a flattish articular facet , an angular and 5 , coronoid process ; the main bar is gently arcuate , and lessens gradually to its distal end , which is rounded , and does not touch its fellow of the opposite side .
The hyoid arch is large and highly subdivided ; it has now a large forwardly-projecting basal piece ( Plate 30 , fig. 8 , b.hy .
) .
The pier is the hyomandibular ( hm .
) , with its styloid symplectic fore-growth ( sy .
) ; this part is free , and not , like its serial homologue the pterygoid process of the suspensorium , concrescent with the bar in front of it .
This hyoid pier is still three-fourths as large as the pier of the mandible ; its dorsal condyle is large and rounded , its body is swollen behind , ready to form the " opercular process/ ' and below this knob , on the inner side , it is scooped for articulation with the inter-hyal .
) .
Here , as in the hyostylic types of fishes , the hyoid arch is subdivided primarily into an antero-superior and a postero-inferior bar ; but in this type , as in the Teleostei , the latter is subdivided again into three segments\#151 ; the inter-hyal , the cerato-hyal , and the hypo-hyal ( i.hy .
, c.hy .
, h.hy.).* The inter-hyal ( i.hy .
) is a small , short , but thickish segment which articulates with the inner face of the hyomandibular ( hm .
) above , and with the cerato-hyal ( c.hy .
) below .
The cerato-hyal is nearly as long as the mandible , and is twice as thick as its distal part ; it is oval in section , rather pinched in at the middle , and rounded at both ends .
The lower convex end fits into the shallow cavity on the top of the hypo-hyal * In the Sturgeon and its congeners the symplectic is segmented off from the hyomandibular , and the same thing often occurs in the diminished and modified hyoid pier of the Batrachia , and even amongst some of the Sauropsida , as in the Chelonia ( see ' On the Skull of Chelone " Challenger " series , vol. i. , part 5 , plate 6 , figs. 6 , 6a ) .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
( h.hy .
) , the thick , semi-globular , distal segment of the arch .
The basal piece , vel basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) , is wide , oblong , and three-fourths the height of the cerato-hyal ; its rounded fore end is rather blunt ; it is , in reality , a double bar , and its tissue is much lighter and more spongy than that of the side bars ; its posterior end is doubly scooped for articulation with the hypo-hyals .
The branchial arches ( Plate 30 , fig. 8 , br ' .
) are now beginning to divide across into four pieces on each side , namely , a pharyngo- , an epi- , a cerato- , and a hypo-branchial ( see Plate 31 , figs. 12 , 13 ) ; a rod of cartilage of about the same thickness as the arches runs along the mid line , connecting them together ; this is the basi-branchial ( b.br .
) .
Transverse sections of a somewhat younger specimen ( 7\ lines long ) show much that is instructive , and corroborate the observations made upon dissected embryos .
Section 1.\#151 ; The first of these ( Plate 31 , fig. 1 ) is in front of the chondrocranium , through the fore part of the nasal capsule ( ol .
) .
The skin is very thick , and the mucous membrane of the nasal sac is composed of large columnar cells .
The upper part is much flatter than the lower , in which three of the suctorial disks ( .
) are seen in section .
Section 2.\#151 ; The next section ( Plate 31 , fig. 2 ) , is through the middle of the nasal sacs ( ol .
) and the fore-part of the hemispheres ( Cla .
) ; here the lower face is less convex and the upper more so ; the fore end of each trabecula ( .
) is cut through ; it is a rounded projection , the rudiment of the free cornu .
Section 3.\#151 ; The third section ( Plate 31 , fig. 3 ) is through the back of the nasal sacs ( pi .
) , the first third of the cerebral hemispheres ( C1\#174 ; .
) , and the solid coalesced end of the triple trabecular outgrowths of the basis cranii .
The outline of the trabeculae ( tr .
) is clearly seen below ; but above , these bars\#151 ; which are oval in section at this part and very thick\#151 ; are confluent with an upper median mass , the intertrabecula ( this is wider than the paired bars , fits in and on them , and rises over them as a dilated and concave floor to the membranous floor of the cranium .
Section 4.\#151 ; The fourth section ( Plate 31 , fig. 4 ) is through the hemispheres ( C " .
) and barely misses the eye-ball ( for ol .
read e. ) .
Here the fore end of the palato-quadrate cartilages ( p.pg .
) is cut through , where these bars run into the trabeculae ( tr .
) .
The intertrabecula ( i.tr .
) is wider and flatter , and the shallow sulcus between the paired trabeculae is gone ; they together form a convex mass below , at this part .
The section of the palatines would be circular , but the conjugational band is very thick , and obscures their real form .
Section 5.\#151 ; The fifth section ( Plate 31 , fig. 5 ) runs through the fore part of the eyeballs ( e. ) .
This section is at the end of the intertrabecula ( i.tr .
) , and the trabeculae and palatine bars ( tr .
, p.pg .
) are only half as large as in the last , and this section is seen to be oval , for the connecting cells are much reduced in quantity .
Section 6.\#151 ; The sixth section ( Plate 31 , fig. 6 ) , a little farther back , shows an evident fissure between the trabeculae ( tr .
) , which are now flatter , like bricks , and the connecting band is so thin as almost to set the palatine band ( p.pg- ) free .
Section 7 .
\#151 ; Here ( Plate 31 , fig. 7 ) those bands ( .
) are free , and the trabeculae look like two flat , partly confluent bricks , gently bent round the base of the mem-brano-cranium .
The section of the palatine bars , now very slender , is circular .
Section 8.\#151 ; In this section ( Plate 31 , fig. 8 ) the eye ( e. ) is cut through its middle , and the mandible , very short as yet , has come into view ; here , of course , the mouth cavity ( m. ) is shown .
The pineal body ( pnl .
) and the fore part of the mid brain can just be seen , as well as the back part of the hemisphere ( Cla .
) , running into the thalamencephalon below .
The trabeculae ( tr .
) do not now follow the convexity of the membrano-cranium , but are flat and horizontally placed ; they are distinct here , and oval in section .
The palatine bars ( p-pg .
) are now round in section , and are more than twice their own diameter from the trabeculae .
Below the mouth cavity ( m. ) the mandibles ( mk .
) are cut through obliquely ; they are rounded rods , similar to the palatines at the same part .
Section 9.\#151 ; The ninth section ( Plate 31 , tig .
9 ) is through the mid brain ( C2 .
) and the thalamencephalon ( C1 .
) .
The trabeculae ( tr .
) are now nearly cylindrical , and are a distance apart equal to twice their own thickness .
Between them a thin lamina of bone is cut through ; this is the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) .
Outside the oral cavity ( m. ) the palato-quadrate cartilages ( p-pg- ) are seen to be flattened and concavo-convex , the convex side being turned inwards .
On each side , below the mouth , the mandibles ( mk .
) are cut through obliquely .
Above , in the superorbital region , the rudiment of the tegmen cranii is seen as a narrow band of cartilage\#151 ; flat outside and convex within .
Section 10.\#151 ; In the next section ( Plate 31 , fig. 10 ) the swelling mid brain ( C2 .
) reaches the superorbital bands on each side ; the trabeculae ( tr .
) are nearly twice as far apart as in the last , and are quite circular in section .
Between and below them the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) is twice as wide as in the last .
This section shows the articular end of the mandible ( are .c .
) joined to the hinge on the quadrate end ( q. ) of the palato-quadrate pier ; this part is now high , flattened , and convexo-concave , with the concavity on the outside .
Section 11.\#151 ; This is through the widest part of the mid brain ( Plate 31 , fig. 11 , C2 .
) , the thalamencephalon ( C1 .
) , the infundibulum ( inf .
) , and the distinct pituitary body ( pie .
) .
The superorbital bands are flatter and nearly vertical in position ; the trabeculae ( tr .
) are now furthest from the mid line ; the parasphenoid bone is still visible below the pituitary body ; and the convexo-concave quadrates ( q. ) are now cut through behind the mandible at the mid line below the mouth ( m. ) .
The tongue ( tg .
) is cut through in front of its cartilaginous core .
Section 12.\#151 ; The next slice is through the hind brain ( Plate 31 , fig. 12 , C3 .
) , the front part of the auditory capsule ( vb. ) , and the fore end of the notochord ( tic .
) .
On each side of the hind brain there is a large mass of nerve-cells , the rudiment of the ganglia of the trigeminal and facial nerves ( V. , VII .
) .
The investing mass ( iv .
) , wide up to its fore end , and not embracing the ascending apex of the notochord ( nc .
) , is a rather thick plate of cartilage ; the inner edge of each OF THE SKULL IN LEP1DOSTEUS OSSEUS .
slab does not touch the notochord at this part .
These basal bands are quite confluent with the auditory capsules , which are very solid on their outer side , but remain membranous to a considerable extent on the inner .
The anterior semicircular canal ( a.s.c. ) is cut through , and also the main cavity ( vb. ) with the horizontal canal opening into it ; this canal bulges out the capsule , and under the " tegmen " thus formed we see the hyomandibular ( Jim .
) as a continuous ray , thick and bulbous , below .
Below it , at a little distance , the joint being further back , we see the second segment , or inter-hyal { i.hy ) ; it is short and semi-elliptical , with a truncated end below .
That end articulates with the rounded top of the phalangiform cerato-hyal ( c.Jiy .
) , which is between it and the hypo-hyal ; this latter segment was in front of this section ( see Plate 30 , fig. 8 , h.hy .
) The foremost branchial arch is cut through near its ventral end , through the lower part of the cerato-branchial , as well as the distil and basal pieces h.br .
, ; these parts lie behind the tongue .
Section 13.\#151 ; The next section ( Plate 31 , fig. 13 ) is behind the junction of the auditory capsules with the basal plates .
These latter are here very massive , and almost square ; the notochord ( nc .
) between them is very large ; the ganglia of the vagus and glossopharyngeal ( IX .
, X. ) fill up much of the space below , between these bars and the capsules ; but above , the open space is for the auditory nerve ( VIII .
) .
The anterior and posterior canals ( p.s.c. ) are cut through at their junction , and the horizontal canal where it opens behind into the vestibule ( vb. ) .
The hyomandibular ( Jim .
) is severed behind its upper , or articular head , and that is the only part of the hyoid arch which comes into view here .
The lower part of two of the branchial arches ( br .
) is cut through close above the heart ( h. ) .
Bony matter is forming in the opercular fold , a growth from the hyoid region , and its great size , wrapping over the gill-arches and heart ( .
) , is well shown .
Section 14.\#151 ; In this section ( Plate 31 , fig. 14* ) , the auditory capsule is seen to approach the investing mass ( iv .
) behind the large membranous deficiency in the inner wall .
The basal plates cut through are here at their thickest part , and the posterior canal ( p.s.c. ) is most of it seen , as it becomes bulbous below .
Here the notochord has almost its full ( spinal ) thickness ; the hyomandibular is cut through in its hinder part , or " opercular process ; " only the upper part of this section is figured .
Section 15.\#151 ; This ( Plate 31 , fig. 15* ) , which is behind the ear-capsule , shows that the occipital ring is still very incomplete , only the basal and lateral parts ( e.o. ) being developed .
The basal cartilage ( iv .
) is thinning out towards the first vertebra ; the pharyngo-branchial of the last functional arch ( p.br .
) and its gills ( br.p .
) are displayed ; the notochord ( nc .
) is now full-sized .
A comparison of these sections with the upper and lower views of the chondrocranium at this stage ( Plate 30 , figs. 7 , 8 ) will make all plain .
Fig. 14 is lettered 15 , and fig. 15 , 14 by mistake .
3 N 2 Fourth Stage.\#151 ; Young Lepidosteus , 11 \to 12J lines long : average size 1 inch .
In these , the largest of those reared by Professor Agassiz and Mr. Garman , the chondrocranium is perfect ; the occipital arch is beginning to ossify , and the investing bones are very numerous and quite distinct .
The cranium at this stage ( Plate 32 ) corresponds very closely with that of a young Sturgeon Jive inches long , but has much larger membranous tracts , and is altogether a much lighter structure ; in having rudimentary basi- and ex-occipital bony centres , it has already gone beyond the skull of an adult Sturgeon .
The fissure between the fore and hind brain ( Plate 32 , fig. 4 , C1 .
, C3 .
) is very distinct , and reaches to the base of the mid brain ( C2 .
) ; but there is no " posterior clinoid wall , " such as would exist and be very massive in the skull of an embryo Sauropsidan or Mammal at the same stage .
Already the notochord ( Plate 32 , fig. 4 , n has retreated to a considerable distance behind the pituitary body ( pie .
) , which is now an appendage to the infundibulum ( inf .
) ; the brain well fills the whole cranial cavity up to this stage , but the hemispheres ( Cla .
) are relatively very small .
Another thing to be noticed is this , namely , that the pre-cerebral growth of cartilage is almost as long as the whole cranial cavity , although it is only a fraction of the length to which it will attain .
At first sight it might be thought that the mesocephalic flexure was gone , but the up-throwing of the mid brain , and the meeting of the fore and hind brain , show that the bend is very large and very sharp at one point .
The four faces of the skull are all largely membranous , and but for the notochord ( nc .
) , the floor would be open along nearly its whole length , for the cartilage only closes in at the mid line beneath the front end of the hemispheres and the olfactory lobes ( Cla .
, C16 .
) .
The thick cranial notochord ( nc .
) is receiving a bony investment between the thin , post-auditory ends of the investing mass ( iv .
) ; this will be seen better in the transverse sections ( Plate 33 ) .
The fore ends of the basal bars ( figs. 2 , 3 , iv .
) diverge from the notochord ( nc .
) some distance behind its apex ; in the*middle part they are completely confluent with the auditory sacs .
The narrowed , diverging bars that retreat from , and then shoot on far in front of the notochord , are the trabeculae ( tr .
) ; they approximate gently , and their interspace in front is sharply pointed .
But the trabeculae have not merely approximated , they are united together by the intertrabecular wedge ( see Plate 31 , figs. 7 , 8 , i.tr .
) ; and this has now become a large rod , running forwards to the end of the narrow snout .
Outside this thick rod , but little of which is formed by the lateral bars , those bars grow externally into a large lanceolate leaf of cartilage , which reaches right and left nearly to the small , distant nasal sacs ( fig. 5 , ol .
) .
These peculiarly Acipenserine outgrowths of the trabeculae are the familiar " cornua " ( c.tr .
) curiously modified ; both ends of each leafy growth are free , as rounded ears of cartilage ; on the inside there is a sulcus , deepest , on both surfaces , between each cornu and the coalesced bars in the middle .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
There is a squarish ear of cartilage on each side the pituitary body , growingfrom the trabeculae , and looking outwards and forwards ; these are the " basi-pterygoid processes " ( i b.pg .
) , so familiar to us in the Amniota ; to these the pedicles of the suspensorium ( pd .
) are articulated .
Behind these the auditory capsules are seen as very large masses , completely confluent with the chondrocranium .
Below ( Plate 32 , fig. 2 , vb. ) , j the vestibule forms an almost hemispherial projection ; this is caused by the sacculus , which contains the otolith ( fig. 3 , ot .
) .
Behind this there is a lesser eminence caused by the ampulla of the posterior canal ( p.s.c. ) , between it and the larger cavity we see a shallow fossa .
On the outside of this fossa the capsule projects , where it contains the horizontal canal and under this projection there is an oblong articular cavity for the hyomandibular .
Outside this , and between it and the superorbital band ( .
) , there is a rounded projection .
This corresponds with the lateral pre-auditory mass seen in Teleostei and ossified as the so-called post-frontal\#151 ; my sphenotic ( " On the Salmon 's Skull , " Phil. Trans. , 1873 , Plate 7 , figs. 1-3 ) .
Above ( Plate 32 , figs. 1 , 5 , sp.o .
, a.s.c. , h.s.c. , p.s.c. ) , the outline of the large ear capsules is sinuous , the sinuosities being caused by the bulgings of the horizontal and posterior canals , and by the sphenotic process .
Between the capsules , above , the tegtnen cranii ( s.o. , t.cr .
) is developed both over the occipital and the post-sphenoidal regions .
This roof is rather pointed behind , over the foramen magnum , and has an evenly concave margin in front ; there it forms the hinder boundary of the large fontanelle ( / o. ) , which is a short oval , emarginate in its narrow fore end .
In front of the fontanelle there is a considerable ethmoidal tegmen ( t.cr .
) , which covers the olfactory lobes and the small hemispheres ( Plate 32 , figs. 4 , 5 , Ola .
, C 6 .
) ; this is pointed behind in the middle , and laterally runs into the narrow arcuate superorbital band .
The sides of the skull are oblique , the roof being more than thrice the width of the floor in the orbital region ; these sides are mainly membranous ; thus the orbito-sphenoidal cartilages are only represented by so much of the superorbital bands as belong to their territory ; the alisphenoidal cartilage is merely so much of the chondrocranium as projects beyond the auditory capsule , laterally , between the basipterygoid and the sphenotic processes ( b.pg .
, sp.o .
) .
The small nasal capsules ( fig. 5 , ol .
) have no separate cartilaginous roof ; they are carried to the front of the snout .
The suspensorium of the mandible has retained its primary continuity with the ethmo-palatine cartilage , so that it is still a palato-quadrate ( Plate 32 , fig. 2 , p.pg , pd .
) ; but this is quite free now from the other primary connexion , namely , that with the trabecula ( tr .
) .
This large arch , with its pier , foregrowth , and free mandibular bar , has undergone a similar lengthening to that of the cranium .
The pier or suspensorium is a large , oblongo-arcuate plate , ending in front in an oval sub-convex condyle , and a lopg , terete , pterygo-palatine process ; this latter is consider- ably longer than the main part , and reaches as far forwards as the cornu trabeculae ( Plate 32 , figs. 1 , 2 , p.pg .
, c.tr .
) ; it is slightly arcuate .
The main part of the suspensorium has a thick convex lower , and a sharp concave upper , margin .
The upper edge has a convex enlargement behind .
This is the rounded pedicle , which articulates with the basipterygoid process of the trabecula ( pd .
, b.pg .
) .
The lower margin becomes concave towards the end ; a postero-external triangular process\#151 ; the otic process\#151 ; finishes the dorsal end of the suspensorium .
The sub-convex , oval condyle ( q-c .
) looks forward and outward , and fits into the scooped hinder face of the articular region of the free mandible .
Above its articular concavity the mandible sends forwards a large rounded ear of cartilage , convex outside ( Plate 32 , fig. 1 , cr.c .
) and concave within ( fig. 2 , this is the coronoid process of the mandible .
The angular process is a free rounded spur below and behind the articular concavity .
The rest of the rod ( mk .
) is terete , and almost straight ; it is only slightly arched upwards and reaches nearly to the end of the snout .
The hyoid arch ( Plate 32 , figs. 1 and 2 ) has a pier which is curiously and suggestively like the suspensorium of the mandible ; but , already , it is relatively much less , being now about half as large .
It has a pedicle , a free posterior process , a fore-growing rounded rod , and an articular facet for the free , inferior arch ; the only difference , here , is the absence of any borrowed addition at the fore end , such as the pterygoid cartilage has in the concrescent palatine .
The pedicle of the hyoid pier ( Jim .
) is the oblong , articular head , fitting inside the oblong concavity under the auditory " tegmen ; " it has no definite neck .
The free posterior process ( op.p .
) is for the opercular bone ; it is short and rounded .
The fore-growing rounded rod is the " symplectic " region ( sy .
) ; it is terete , gently curved downwards , blunt at its fore end and enlarged near its origin ; it lies anteriorly behind ( under ) the convex edge of the suspensorium .
The body of the hyomandibular is gently bilobate and fenestrate in the middle ( Jtm.f .
) ; the articular facet for the " inter-hyal " ( fig. 6 , i.hy .
) is a scooping between the two convexities of the hind margin ( Plate 32 , fig. 2 ) .
The rest of the hyoid arch is not in one piece like the mandible , but in three , and these have , also , a large double median bar conjugating them .
The first of these is a small , unciform segment of cartilage , the inter-hyal ( fig. 6 , i.hy .
) ; it is articulated to the inner face of the hyomandibular by its hooked end , obliquely , and obliquely also to the top of the cerato-hyal by its base .
The latter ( is half the length and twice the thickness of the mandible ; it is a rounded rod , swollen near the top , and then thickened gradually to its distal end .
All but the top and lower concave face is ossified .
The distal concave end is articulated to the top of a globular segment\#151 ; the hypo-hyal ( h.hy , ) ; this is not ossified .
The right and left segments fit into a pair of concavities on the hind face of the glossal piece , or basihyal ( This is tongue-shaped , the sides are parallel , the fore end rounded ; it is moderately thick , is essential y OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
double , and is as long as the cerato-hyal .
The subdivided , ossifying branchial arches will be described in the next stage .
The uniformity of the rapidly elongating intertrabecula is shown in the vertical section of the skull ( Plate 32 , fig. 4 , i.tr.).The three trabeculae are shown inside the lengthening snout , with its four rows of mucous glands in a second upper view ( Plate 32 , fig. 5 ) ; and in it , also , the position and relation of the sense-capsules and brain are displayed , and also how that the tegmen cranii ( t.cr .
) leaves the large mid brain ( C2 .
) unprotected .
A partial view of the chondrocranium , namely , the floor , from its upper face up to the end of the cranial cavity ( Plate 32 , fig. 3 ) shows the huge notochord ( nc .
) , whose bony sheath is incomplete above , and the fore end of which is free , and but little attenuated , that part is curved but little upwards ( see Plate 32 , fig. 4 ) .
The fusion of the basal bands and auditory capsules is shown to be perfect , and the cupped tracts for the ampulla of the posterior canal ( p.s.c. ) and for the sacculus ( vb. ) are also seen .
In front of these , on each side of the diverging parachordals\#151 ; now to be ^ called trabeculae ( tr.)\#151 ; the basipterygoid peduncles ( b.pg .
) are shown .
In the emargmation behind these , in the fore part of the ear-capsules and in the occipital ring , thin films of bony matter are forming , which will become the alisphenoids , prootics , and exoccipitals , these will be shown better in the sections .
The huge lanceolate pituitary fenestra ( pie .
) is floored by the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) , which wedges in , in front , between the converging trabeculae .
In front of that part the chondrocranium is complete .
The olfactory nerves ( I. ) escape from the bulbs ( Plate 32 , figs. 4 , 5 , C16 .
) and run along to the distant nasal sacs ( ol .
) between the intertrabecula and cornua trabeculae m the deep groove between them above .
The nasal branch of the ophthalmic ( 5 ) rum\gt ; forwards outside these .
Some of the bony plates are shown on the chondrocranium , the foremost of these is the first of the maxillary chain ( figs. 1 , 2 , mx. ) , and on the palato-pterygoid there are three 11 parastoses , " namely : the palatine , pterygoid , and mesopterygoid ( Plate 32 , figs. 1 , 2 , pa ' .
, ms.pg .
) .
Transversely vertical sections show much that is instructive in this stage also ( see Plate 33 , figs. 1\#151 ; 13 ) .
Section 1.\#151 ; In this ( Plate 33 , fig. 1 ) the fore end of the long face is seen to be convex above and somewhat concave below .
The skin is very thick and glandular , the nasal sacs ( ol .
) are simple pouches , with a thick epithelium , the tissue beneath the skin has now become osseous ; in this way we get the premaxillaries , nasals , maxillaries , pala times , \amp ; c. ; the plates directly over the nasal sacs are the nasals , and the palatine part of the premaxillaries is shown below the sacs .
In this section we see the fore end of the prenasal cartilage or intertrabecula ( i.tr .
) ; it is a long oval in section , with the narrow part below and the sides compressed .
Section 2.\#151 ; Here ( Plate 33 , fig. 2 ) we have the prenasal ( i.tr .
) cut thi ough behind t e nasal sacs ; palatine teeth attached to bony laminae ( pa .
) are seen below , and similar bony tracts ( p.ob.)are seen , right and left above , enclosing the olfactory nerve ( I ) Here the cartilage ( i.tr.)is alate , each sharp wing being nearer the base than the top Section 3.\#151 ; In this ( Plate 33 , fig. 3 ) the parts to be described are numerous , for the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr.)are cut through , and also the palato-quadrate ( p.pg .
) near its fore end .
The intertrabecula ( i.tr .
) is oval in section , but it grows out , right and left into wings , which thicken towards their outer edge and are as wide as the median bar .
these are the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr .
) .
Under their rounded end we see a small oval section of cartilage placed obliquely ; this is the palato-quadrate ( p.pg .
) .
The fossa over each cornu trabeculae is more scooped than that beneath it ; in this lies the olfactory nerve ( I. ) .
Beneath the intertrabecula , and following its curve , there is a thin lamina of bone ; this is the parasphenoid ; the oblique laminae right and left of this are the vomers .
The palatines ( pa. ) are seen in the submarginal ridge , and one of the maxillary chain of bones ( mx. ) in the lesser , outer ridge .
Above , some of the superior ( or ethmo-nasal , et.n .
) and supero-lateral ( or preorbital , p.ob .
) scutes are cut through ; the former protect the olfactory nerves ( I. ) .
Part of this section ( fig. 3a ) is separate from the rest ; it is through the lower jaw , in front of the tongue .
Here Meckel 's cartilage ( mk .
) has a short oval section ; outside it we see the dentary ( d. ) as a larger and a lesser lamina .
Section 4.\#151 ; This ( Plate 33 , fig. 4 ) is behind the angle of the mouth , and close in front of the cranial cavity , where the three bars ( i.tr .
, c.tr .
) are thickest .
The middle part is one-half higher than in the last section , and is broader above and below .
The side bars ( c.tr .
) are twice as thick here , and are shorter , and upturned ; the olfactory nerve ( I. ) grooves both the bars , and is more than half enclosed in cartilage .
Under these thick rounded wings each palato-quadrate ( p.pg .
) is seen ; it is twice as thick as in the last section , is circular , and is its own width below the trabecular cornu .
As this is close behind the gape the mandible is in two sections ; the upper is small\#151 ; it is the fore end of the coronoid process ; at a good distance below this part the main rod ( mk ) is severed ; it is oval , with the narrow end above .
Bony laminae belonging to the preorbital series of scutes are seen supero-laterally ; below the intertrabeculae the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) is shown ; a hooked , zigzag line of bone is seen propping up the palato-quadrate cartilage ; this is the pterygoid , whilst outside the mandible the dentary ( d. ) is visible .
Section 5.\#151 ; This ( Plate 33 , fig. 5 ) was made through the fore part of the hemispheres ( Cla .
) and of the tegmen cranii .
The base is formed almost entirely by the trabeculae ( tr .
) for the middle bar dies out in this region ; here they are at their thickest part ; they form a crescentic mass , the horns of which grow upwards and a little outwards as the lateral ethmoidal wall .
These walls pass above into the convex roof ; there is a superorbital enlargement where these thickish laminae pars into each other .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS , 4G3 The palato-quadrate cartilages ( P'Pgi ) are lesser again , flattened obliquely , and are still further from the basal bars .
Behind the angle of the mouth the mandible thickens rapidly ; this part ( are .c .
) shows a section oblique and sub-reniform , close in front of the articular condyle .
The large mouth-cavity ( ra .
) is partly filled here with a transversely oval mass\#151 ; the tongue ; it has a large double core of a soft spongy kind of cartilage ; this is the exceptionally symmetrical basi-hyal ( The same kind of surface bones are cut through above ; the outer film is a superorbital ( s.ob.)\#151 ; a continuation of the same chain as the preorbitals ; and the inner piece is the pointed fore end of the frontal ( / .
) .
The pterygoids ( pg .
) are still in section , but the mandible is cut through behind its splints .
Section 6.\#151 ; The next section ( Plate 33 , fig. 6 ) is through the middle of the eye-ball ( e. ) , and through the hinder wide part of the hemispheres ( Clct .
) .
Here the cranium is largely membranous , for the only cartilages cut through are the superorbitals ( .
) , mere bands running superolaterally , and the trabeculae below .
The latter are just distinct at this point , and are brick-shaped\#151 ; a little turned up at their outer ends .
Thus at this part we have the fore end of the great fontanelle ( see Plate 32 , fig. l , fo .
) , and the wide orbito-sphenoidal fenestra ( fig. 2 , os.f .
) .
The quadrate region ( PP9 .
) is cut through here , behind the hinge of the mandible ; this is still faced on the inside by the pterygoid { pg.)f whilst another film of bone is cut through above , namely , the mesopterygoid ( .
) .
Above , the frontals are seen in section , and below , the tongue and basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) .
Section 7.\#151 ; This ( Plate 33 , fig. 7 ) is post-orbital , and is through the mid brain ( C2 .
) , and the thalamencephalon ( C1 .
) , near the pituitary body .
The trabeculae ( tr .
) are very small , nearly circular in section , and at their greatest distance apart .
The flattened superorbital bands ( s.ob.c .
) are thrown to the side of the membrano-cranium , which is at its weakest point here .
The quadrate ( q- ) , which was thin above and thick below in the last , is now thick above and thin below ; the long pterygoid is still on its inside , and below its out-turned thin edge a small round rod of cartilage is seen : this is the symplectic ( sy .
) .
In the root of the tongue there are three cartilages cut through , the middle bar is nearly circular , the others are flattened ; these are the basi-branchial and the first hypo-branchials ( b.br .
} h.br .
) .
In a fold outside and below these , a thicker round rod is seen ; this is the cerato-hyal ( c.hy .
) .
Protecting the pituitary body , the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) has here widened out considerably ; for a short space , shown in this and the next section , the roof shows scarcely any osteoblasts .
Section 8.\#151 ; This section ( Plate 33 , fig. 8 ) is through the fore part of the auditory capsules and the widest part of the mid brain ( O2 .
) , where it turns down to join the hind brain .
The anterior canal ( a.s.c. ) is cut through ; here the capsule ( au .
) is imperfect within , and is beginning to ossify as the prootic .
The investing mass ( iv .
) is cut through where it is shooting out into the trabeculae , and the bands are wide apart .
The superorbital band has now passed into the antero-superior angle ot the auditory MDCCCLXXXII .
3 O capsule .
The pharyngeal cavity is open below , for here the great opercular fold is cut through ; in it bony plates ( op .
) are forming ; in its upper part the root of the symplectic ( sy .
) is severed , and below that a much larger bar with an ectosteal sheath-this is the cerato-hyal ( c.hy .
) ; below , the fore part of the heart is cut through , and above and across it the basal , distal , and cornual elements of one or two of the middle branchial arches ( b.br .
, h.cr .
, c.br .
) .
Here the parasphenoid ( .
) is of great width , undergirding not only the open basal fontanelle , but the basal plates also .
The fore part of the Gasserian ganglion ( 5 ) is cut through .
Section 9.\#151 ; This ( Plate 33 , fig. 9 ) is through the widest part of the hind brain ( C3 .
) , and behind the fontanelle , for here we have the hind " tegmen " ( .
) , as a thinnish layer of roof-cartilage , passing externally into the auditory capsules .
At this part there is a thick band of cartilage on the inner side , in front of the large " meatus internus .
" Here the large ampulla of the anterior canal ( and the beginning of the horizontal canal are exposed , and outside it there is a ledge\#151 ; tegmen tympani\#151 ; with which the hyomandibular ( hm .
) is continuous .
This is a flat cartilage ; the whole of the hyoid pier is relatively small in this type .
Here the notochord is cut through , where it is enclosed by the broad , fore margin of the investing mass ( iv .
) , which thins out , and curves outwards and upwards , to join the capsule .
The opercular fold ( op .
) is cut through behind the lower part of the hyoid arch , which is projected forwards ; the branchials ( br .
) are similar to the last , but further back in the series , and the heart ( h. ) is now cut across at its fore part .
There are several bony plates cut through in this , viz. : parietal , squamosal , Opercular ( op .
) .
Section 10.\#151 ; Here ( Plate 33 , fig. 10 ) only the upper or main part is figured ; it shows a section of the middle or widest part of the auditory capsule , where the inner wall is membranous .
The anterior canal ( a.s.c. ) is cut through close to its junction with the posterior , and also the horizontal canal ( h.s.c. ) with the subdivisions of the vestibule ( vb. ) .
This section is behind the junction of the capsule with the investing mass ( iv .
) , and shows the ganglion of the 7th and 8th nerves ( VII .
, VIII .
) .
The flat hyomandibular ( hm .
) is still in section , but behind its articular head ; the broad parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) , and the outer bony plates , are similar to those of the last section .
Section 11.\#151 ; This ( Plate 33 , fig. 11 ) shows the hind part of the auditory capsule ; the whole course of the posterior canal ( p.s.c. ) is seen through this back wall of cartilage .
Here the capsules are some distance from the investing mass ( iv .
) ; above , the roof ( t.cr .
) has become deficient again , and at this part the hyomandibular ( hm .
) is cut through some distance below the condyle , and in this specimen a film of bone is seen investing the cartilage .
The large notochord ( nc .
) has also a sheath of bone , and under each basal bar there is a section of the forked hinder part of the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) .
One of the branchial arches ( ?
the third ) is seen in its whole extent ( p.br .
, e.br.y c.br .
, h.br .
, b.br .
) .
Section 12.\#151 ; In this section ( Plate 33 , fig. 12 ) the occipital arch ( e.o. ) is cut through a OP THE SKULL IK LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
little behind its upper part , and quite behind the auditory capsules .
Here the 9th and 10th nerves and their ganglia ( IX .
, X. ) are laid bare , and the heart ( .
) is cut through at its thickest part .
The investing mass has become narrow and hour-glass shaped in section ; it sends upwards a cartilage which thins out gradually upwards ; this is the exoccipital ( e.o. ) , which becomes supraoccipital above .
The exoccipital bones are forming as embracing ectostoses ; the notochord has its sheath , the rudiment of the basioccipital ( b.o. ) , and under the investing mass the parasphenoidal forks are seen .
Here there is one pharyngo-branchial ( .
) and the distal parts of two or three arches , with the basal piece ( b.br .
) lying over the heart Section 13.\#151 ; This last section ' ( Plate 33 , fig. 13 ) is close in front of the first vertebra ; it catches the last pharyngo-branchial ( for h.br .
read p.br .
) , and shows some pharyngeal teeth .
Only half the arch comes in here , but it shows well the outer and inner laminae of the exoccipital bone ( e.o. ) .
Here the notochordal bony sheath ( nc .
, b.o. ) is thicker , and the splintery ends of the parasphenoid narrower than in the last section .
In the last three sections bony laminae are forming beneath the skin ; these and their relations will be better understood by reference to the figures and descriptions of more advanced stages .
Fifth Stage.\#151 ; Young Lepidostei 2 to 2|- inches long .
In this stage the skull is rapidly acquiring its permanent character ( Plate 34 , figs. 1 , 2 ) ; the rostral part is now twice as long as the cranial cavity ; in the last the pre-cranial part was not quite so long as the cranial .
This is mainly due to the growth of the inter trabecula ( .
) , which already is considerably more than twice as long as the very long cornua ( The endocranium is now in this specimen ( which is 2 inches long ) nearly as perfect as it will be ; the upper fontanelle ( fo .
) is a short ellipse , with the long diameter axial ; it is relatively much less , through the growth of the tegmen cranii ( .
) , fore and aft .
The whole endocranium may be said to be pyriform , with an extremely long stalk ; the " nose " of the pear is represented by the basioccipital ( b.o. ) .
The occipito-auditory region is semicircular above , with an apiculation over the foramen magnum ; the orbital region is suddenly narrowed , and this gently lessens into the ethmoidal , which as gently becomes rostral , and the rostrum slowly lessens to its fore end , where it has two small wings .
Near its root , however , it has two large wings\#151 ; these are the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr .
) .
The floor of the skull is still largely open ( fig. 3 ) , and the sides are occupied by the large orbital fenestrae ( os.f .
) .
The sheath of the notochord ( nc .
) is most completely ossified below ; above ( fig. 3 ) , it is still membranous in front ; the bony sheath is the basioccipital ( b.o. ) ; it runs a little , right and left , into the basal cartilage .
The auditory capsules are completely confluent with the chondrocranium ; and their canals ( a.s.c. , h.s.c. , p.s.c. ) are to be seen through the cartilaginous wall .
Above , the even form of the skull is not much altered by the canals within ; below , the succulus 3 o 2 ( fig. 2 , vb. ) largely swells the vestibular region ; the form of this cavity is a short oval ( figs. 2 and 3 , vb. ) .
The condition of the hind skull is best studied from above , in a preparation of the base ( fig. 3 ) ; here the exoccipitals are seen to be forming broad borders of bone to the cartilage of the arch , and these are approaching the cephalostyle ( basioccipital , b.o. ) .
Further forwards , in the angle between the capsule and the basal plate , under the Gasserian ganglion , the cartilage is being ossified as a prootic ( and the wider wings which stand out from the front of the capsule are becoming the sphenotics ( sp.o .
) .
Also , still further forwards , the lower wings or basipterygoids ( b.pg .
) are getting a coating of bone ; this ectostosis runs upwards into the side wall , in front of the capsule\#151 ; it is the alisphenoid ( al.s .
) .
In front of these last wings the trabeculae ( tr .
) become bent , first outwards and then inwards , ready to join the median bar ( i.t They are rounded , solid rods .
The basal fontanelle is now divided across , near its hinder end , by a narrow band , which is cartilaginous at its roots and fibrous in the middle ; this is the and feeble " post-pituitary wall " ( p.cl.)\#151 ; here a mere bridge .
The small triangular space behind is the posterior basi-cranial fontanelle ( ; the large , pinched , pyriform space in front is the pituitary space ( .
) or anterior basi- cranial fontanelle .
Its narrow anterior third runs up to the intertrabecula { i.tr .
) , which goes further back than the ethmoidal wall ) , and is , indeed , the rudiment of the " perpendicular ethmoid .
" Infero-laterally , the ethmoidal wall ( Plate 34 , fig. 2 ) is very restricted , for the orbito-sphenoidal fenestral { os.f .
) is of great length , being extended equally in front of and behind the optic nerve ( II .
) .
But above ( fig. 1 , t.cr .
) the tegmen cranii , in front , is as large as the long oval fontanella ( fo .
) ; behind that space the spheno-occipital tegmen is one-half longer , axially , and twice as wide across .
The three confluent trabecular bars combine to close in the fore part of the cranial cavity ( Plate 34 , figs. 1 and 3 ) , only leaving an opening right and left for the long olfactory nerves ( I. ) .
When they have escaped from the skull they lie for the hinder half of their course in a deep rounded sulcus between the cornual extensions of the trabeculae ( c.tr .
) and the huge middle bar ( i.tr .
) .
The three bars are at first nearly of the same width ; the cornua are rounded where they first project as longitudinal wings , but they soon become narrow rods , and end in a pointed manner behind the middle of the pre-cranial region .
Thence the intertrabecula is a gently compressed rod , only slowly lessening forwards , and ending as a slightly winged lobe in the end of the beak .
The first and second visceral arches ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 ) are elongated forwards like the skull , but the " pier " of the hyoid arch ( .
, sy .
) is less than half the size now of the mandibular suspensorium ( p.pg .
, pd .
) .
I have shown these with their splints attached as seen from above ( Plate 34 , fig. 1 ) and from below ( fig. 2 ) ; also without the " parostoses from their inner side ( fig. 4 ) .
Their intrinsic bony centres or " ectostoses are now clearly seen , but they are very small in proportion to the cartilage in which they OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
appear .
The suspensorium and its free bar reach from the auditory region to a small distance behind the end of the snout ; these cartilages , moreover , largely overlap each other ; end to end , they would be considerably longer than the entire skull .
The quadrate hinge ( q.c. ) is opposite the point where the olfactory nerves ( I. ) emerge , a little in front of the cranial cavity .
The dorsal end of the suspensorium is bilobate ; the pedicle ( pd .
) is an oblong , oblique facet , looking backwards and inwards , and articulating with a similar facet on the basipterygoid ; the outer lobe is free ; it is the triangular otic process ( ot.p .
) ; it reaches almost to the ear-capsule , but is too short to articulate with it .
The main part of the suspensorium runs from these hind lobes to the quadrate hinge ( q.c. ) ; the inner margin is first hollow and then arched ; the arch runs along the free anterior process ; that edge is sharp .
The outer edge is thick and ribbed on its inner face ( Plate 34 , figs. 2 , 4 ) ; it is nearly parallel with the upper , being convex behind and concave in front .
The width of this large plate is equal to half its length , and it is very elegantly sigmoid .
The quadrate hinge ( q.c. ) is a small oblong saddle , the main direction of which is forwards and a little downwards ; it is convex outwardly , but has a rising inner crest ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 ) , which fits closely to the articular condyle ( are .c .
) .
Beyond the hinge the ptervgo-palatine bar is first half as wide as its root , and then losing its inner crest , it becomes a rounded , straight , slender style , which ends very close to the point of the cornu trabeculae ( Plate 34 , fig. 1 , ppg .
, c.tr .
) .
The lower or inner face of the suspensorium is gently convex ; the upper or outer face , gently concave .
On the convex inner face there is a large splint-bone \#151 ; the pterygoid ( Plate 34 , fig. 2 , pg .
) ; it covers more than half of the broad part of the cartilage\#151 ; its antero-superior part .
For some distance in front of the quadrate condyle it is continued forwards , undiminished in size ; it then lessens gradually into a pointed style , which runs parallel with , and a little on the outside of , the rostrum ( i.tr .
) for three-fifths of its length .
A very narrow dentigerous bone underlies the narrow fore half of the pterygoid , and then goes beyond it up to the premaxillary , or nearly to the end of the snout .
It is rather broadened in its diverging hind part , and then the right and left bones gently converge forwards ; these are the parosteal palatines ( pa ' .
) .
Along the inner edge of the suspensorium there is a narrow , thin , falcate splint , which reaches from the top of the broad part to the neck of the pedicle ; this is the " mesopterygoid " ( ms.pg .
) .
The front of the neck of the pedicle is ossified as a small ectosteal patch ; this is the " metapterygoid " ( mt.pg .
) .
The neck of the quadrate condyle also is ossified ; this is the small quadrate ectostosis ( q. ) .
From the dilated end of the intertrabecula ( Plate 5 , fig. 2 , i.tr .
) to the fore end of the palato-quadrate styles , there is an extremely delicate pair of bony threads ; these are the vomers ( v. ) .
In their hinder third these bones underlie the styloid end of a bone more than twice their breadth ; this is the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) ; it is carinate below , widening as it approaches the basis cranii ; it then narrows till it nearly reaches the optic nerve ( for I iread II .
) ; thence it widens , loses its keel , and becomes grooved along its middle below .
This bone then trebles its width , and sends out two pairs of angular projections , the lesser to support the basipterygoid processes ( b.pg .
) , and the larger farther back to support the vestibular swellings of the ear-capsules ( vb. ) .
The bone then becomes divided into two sharp styles , which embrace the lower part of the basioccipital .
The parasphenoid is three-fourths the length of the head ; it forms the only floor to the skull in the pituitary region ( fig. 3 , The bones that invest the skull above , and postero-laterally , will be described in the next stage , but partly also in the sections illustrating this .
The splints of the first arch also will be described hereafter , but there is one which is figured on this Plate , namely , the preopercular .
This bone ( Plate 34 , figs. 1 , 2 , p.op .
) is a very narrow , but rather sharp splint , which is applied to , and takes the curves of , the lower edge of the suspensorium ; it is the normal splint of the mandibular suspensorium , and is more like that of a Frog than that of an osseous Fish .
The length of the free mandible ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 ) , as compared with that of the palato-quadrate , is as 20 to 19 ; it is , therefore , already a very long jaw .
In its hind part it is nearly as broad as its pier , and then runs to its end as a somewhat stouter rod than the pterygo-palatine above it .
The condyle ( are .c .
) is cylindroidal , concave as seen from the side , but somewhat convex across ; there is an ectosteal " articulare " in the broad part near the condyle .
The angle is scarcely produced ; but in front of the condyle , above , the cartilage grows into a pedunculated crescent of cartilage , the coronoid crest ( .
) The notch between this part and the lessening rod ( .
) is very deep ; this leafy coronoid is convex outside and concave within .
The long Meckelian rod .
) is gently arcuate and pointed at its fore end , where it nearly meets its fellow of the other side .
This skull is scarcely amphistylic even , much less hyostylic , for the pedicle of the mandibular pier is strong and well articulated , but the hyomandibular ( hm .
) is feeble , and the binding process or symplectic ( sq .
) , feebler still .
The hyoid pier or hyomandibular ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 , hm .
) , with its symplectic foregrowth ( sy .
) , is about one-third the size of the pqlato-quadrate in front of it .
The articular facet is a long , arched , convex condyle , with scarcely a perceptible neck ; behind it is the knob for the opercular ; below , this multilobate mass is sinuous , and scooped on its inner face to form the oblique condyloid facet for the interhyal .
The front margin is concave , and the whole bulk suddenly lessens into a sigmoid style , bent first upwards , and then downwards , as it runs obliquely forwards to bind inside the hinder angle of the suspensorium , which is scooped to receive it .
A small oval fenestra is seen in from of the middle of the hyomandibular ; and around this , below the condyle , there is an ectosteal sheath .
All but the front fourth of the symplectic also is ossified as a delicate shaft-bone .
The free or postero-inferior part of the hyoid arch is more evenly massive than its , pier or antero-superior part .
The conjugational piece , or inter-hyal ( .
) , is pyriform\#187 ; OF THE SHULL m LEPIDOSTEUS osseus .
it forms a loose joint inside the hyomandibular by its narrow upper end ; and below , its inner face is scooped for the backwardly bent head of the cerato-hyal ( That segment is seven times the size of the inter-hyal joint ; its head is bent back , its shoulder thickened , and has a short , separate ossification , the epi-hyal ( .
) , and its j shaft is rounded .
The inferior condyle is hemispherical , and the main part of the j thickest rod is ossified as the cerato-hyal { c.hy .
) .
The hypo-hyals ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 , h.hy .
) are sub-globular nodules , scooped above for the cerato-hyal , and ossified on their outside .
They fit against the paired concavities of the basi-hyal ( h.hy.)\#151 ; a double , oblong , tongue-shaped , interglossal segment , as long , and twice as wide , as the cerato-hyal .
This thickish plate is grooved above and below , is rounded and emarginate in front , and is composed of a spongy kind of cartilage , full of fibrous septa , which form a network in it .
There are four perfect , and one imperfect , branchial arches ; they are less than half as solid as the hyoid ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 , br .
) .
In the mandibular arch , when the mouth is closed , the axes of the suspensorium and its free cartilage become coincident .
In the hyoid arch they are parallel , not coincident ; here , in the branchial arches , they are continuous , the upper being superimposed upon the lower element .
The relative size of these parts is greatly altered , and the subdivision does not exactly correspond with that of the mandibular and hyoid .
The part answering to the suspensorium and hyomandibular is less than a fourth the size of that which corresponds to the mandible and cerato-hyal .
Each " pier " is subdivided into two pieces\#151 ; a pharyngo-branchial ( p.br .
) above , and an epi-branchial ( e. br .
) below .
The upper piece is a little tongue of cartilage , turned inwards and forwards , and the lower has a short , bony shaft , and is a little rod turned directly downwards .
These two segments do not correspond with the hyomandibular and symplectic ; the upper piece has a double counterpart in the hyoid arch , namely , the hyomandibular and symplectic\#151 ; one cartilage , with two bony centres in it .
Also , the counterpart of the cerato-hyal , the cerato-branchial ( .
) articulates directly with its pier , the epibranchial ; so that there is nothing in the branchial arches corresponding to the inter-hyal .
Instead of the hypo-branchials ( h.br .
) being short nodules , they are in the first two arches nearly as long as the cerato-branchials ; are thicker than them below , but less ossified .
The three joints between the four pieces seem to show no distinct joint-cavity , but are fibrous .
Below , the rounded rods of the hypo-branchials fit into depression on the basal bar\#151 ; basi-branchial ( b.b ?
\ ) .
This is , in front , a thickish , rounded rod of cartilage ; it then thins out , and behind it is flat and emarginate .
The first and second arch unite with the long , first basi-branchial segment ; the third nearly reaches the short second piece , " and the fourth is loosely attached to the side of the third piece , which is as long as the first .
None of these pieces are ossified , and the first does not reach the basi-hyal , for the hypo-hyals are thrust between them .
The lessening third and fourth hypo-branchials are not ossified .
The fifth oerato-branchial ( c.br8 .
) is less than those in front of it ; it is not ossified , and there is no other segment in that arch .
The branchial arches are but little modified after this ; they merely increase in size and are always small as compared with the arches in front of them .
A series of sectional views will complete the illustrations of this stage .
I have now to illustrate this stage by a series of sections made from a specimen inches long .
Section 1.\#151 ; This section ( Plate 33 , fig. 14 ) is taken from near the end of the snout in front of the nasal sacs .
The intertrabecula { i.tr .
) is seen to be oval , with the larger end below .
The whole snout is elliptical , with a slight convexity above , and a slight concavity below , at the mid line .
The premaxillaries ( px .
) are cut through , both in their body and their palatine process ( p.px .
) ; they are reticulations of thin laminae , and both above and below enclose a mucous gland .
Section 2.\#151 ; The nasal sacs are cut through here ( Plate 33 , fig. 15 , ol .
) and the bony laminae are more complex ; the intertrabecula ( i.tr .
) has the same shape as in the last , but the whole snout is rounder above and flatter below .
Section 3.\#151 ; Behind the nasal sacs other bones come into view ( Plate 33 , fig. 16 ) ; here the evenly elliptical rostrum ( i.tr .
) has the laminae of the ethmo-nasal ( surrounding it , and on the side a mucous gland is seen in the upper half of one of the maxillary chain ( mx ' .
) ; here the lower face of the snout is becoming convex , with a median groove ; above this , right and left , vomerine teeth ( v.t. ) are seen .
Section 4.\#151 ; In this section ( Plate 35 , fig. 1 ) the lower jaw also is cut through ; the snout is flatter here , has a ridged lip , right and left , with sub-marginal grooves .
The intertrabecula ( \#166 ; i.tr .
) , half-way between its fore end and the cornua ( Plate 34 , figs. 1 , 2 , c.tr .
) is circular in section , and is flanked by the layers of the thickening ethmo-nasal ( et.n .
) : outside , one of the maxillary chain ( mxf .
) is seen lying over the palatine ( pa. ) , with its large tooth , and under the rostrum the two vomers ( v. ) , each with a small tooth , are cut through .
Below , the mandibular rods ( mlc .
) are cut through at their front part , and right and left we see the solidifying substance of the dentaries ( d. ) ; over the cartilage towards the mid line , a small , separated style is cut through\#151 ; this is the splenial ( spl .
) .
Section 5.\#151 ; Another section in front of the angles of the mouth ( Plate 35 , fig. 2 ) brings the tongue into view .
Here the rostrum ( i.tr .
) is deep , and twice the size it had in the last section ; it is flattish above , and more convex below .
Here the loose reticulation of the extremely thin bony laminae would seem to defy interpretation ; but it can be classified into groups , and these groups named .
Under the flat top of the beak , on each side of the rostrum , several of these thin plates are seen to be connected together , overarching a mucous gland ( m.g. ) above , and the olfactory nerve ( I. ) lower down .
Above these is a sub-marginal groove , right and left ; outside this groove the beak is convex , and from the convex part there runs inwards a thin bony flake towards OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
the deep , palatal chink ; this is the fore part of the frontal .
Below this there is one of the maxillary chain ( tux ' .
) cut through , protecting a gland ; and inside this , on the lateral lobe of the beak , there is a wedge-shaped tract of fine diploe , the lower part of which carries a large tooth ; this tract is the palatine ( pa ' .
) cut through .
In the triangular median keel of the beak there are three thin plates cut through ; two of them are superficial and the third is deeper , taking the form of the rostrum somewhat , but diverging externally , and having a short crus below\#151 ; this is the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) .
The paired laminae running downwards and inwards , outside it , are the vomers ( v. ) in their widest part ; they are overlapped by the inner end of the frontals , externally ; which , at their outer end , overlap , obliquely , the sharp end of both the cornua trabeculae and the pterygoid cartilages ( .
) .
Below , the thick lower jaws have in them the section of the Meckei/ s cartilage ( mJc .
) , large and almost circular .
There is here the flat , double tongue , with its soft basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) , also double .
On each side of the tongue there is a deep sulcus .
The splenial bone ( spl .
) , over and within the cartilage , is here at its largest size , and the dentary takes up a large space by its reticulations ; it encloses a mucous gland below .
Section 6.\#151 ; This section ( Plate 35 , fig. 3 ) is through the angle of the mouth , and thus the upper and lower tracts are continuous ; the lower or mandibular region is of great height , being cut through close in front of its huge coronoid region .
Here the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr .
) are at their thickest part , or middle ( Plate 34 , figs. 1 , 2 , c.tr .
) and are continuous by a thin oblique tract , with the rostrum ( i.tr .
) which is at the thickest part in this and the next section .
Here it is semi-elliptical above , and sub-carinate below , and the thin edges of the cornua ascend to their thick outer part ; the olfactory nerves ( I. ) lie in the hollow between the bars .
A little below the cornua the ptervgo-palatines ( p-pg- ) are cut through ; they are oval in section , their oblique position is parallel with that of the cornua , and their size is nearly as great .
The mandibles ( mJc .
) are oval in section , here , and twice as thick as the pterygo-palatines ; the basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) is here at its widest part .
The laminae of the ethmo-nasals ( et.n .
) , and of the frontals ( f. ) run close to each other , and below the ptery go-palatine there are two tracts of reticulated bone ; these are the palatines ( see fig. 2 , pa ' .
) below , and the pterygoid ( pg .
) above .
The splenial ( spl .
) is here at its widest part , and the dentary ( d. ) is composed of a large strip of bone , externally , and of a wide network , below .
Section 7.\#151 ; The position of this section ( Plate 35 , fig. 4 ) is evident , for it is through the thickest part of the coronoid process of the mandible ( Plate 34 , fig. 4 cr.c .
) where this remarkable crest is separated from the main rod by a large rounded notch .
Here the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr .
) are thinning out , behind , and the intertrabecula ( i.tr .
) is most solid , it is quite round above , and sub-angulate below .
The pterygo-palatines ( ppgi ) are oval and are further from the narrowed cornua ( c.tr.)\#151 ; they are twice as near to the coronoid cartilage ( cr.c .
) Below that crest , \#151 ; which is placed obliquely across the face a little tilted upwards , and the section of which is oblong , but hooked inside the main bar ( mlc .
) is a large nearly vertical ellipse ; here the basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) is very MDCCCLXXXII .
3 P wide .
The ethmo-nasals ( et.n .
) are less , and the frontals ( f ) are larger ; the palatine is gone , and the pterygoid ( pg .
) is becoming a much.thicker bone .
Over the coronoid process ( cr.c .
) the supra-angular bone ( s.ag .
) is seen , the dentary ( d. ) is very extensive , and is helping the supra-angulare to cover the coronoid cartilage , and growing down the outside of and coming beneath the main rod ( .
) The coronoid bone ( under cr.c .
) now appears inside the mandible .
Section 8.\#151 ; This slice ( Plate 35 , fig. 5 ) is a little in front of the hinge of the lower jaw , and behind the outspread wings of the trabeculae ; hence , the rostrum appears to be single , although it has the trabeculae confluent with it in its lower half .
About the middle there is a slight hollow ; above , it is rounded , and at its base somewhat mammillate in section ; this part has the parasphenoid ( .
) fitting to it , which is thus convex instead of carinate .
The pterygo-palatine { ppg .
) is oblique and oval ; it is nearer the rostrum than the mandible ; that part ( are .c .
) is larger than the rostrum , and is irregularly spindle-shaped in section , with its upper half slightly incurved ; in its inner face the " articular " centre { are .
) has appeared .
The basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) is now wider , and thicker ; flat above , and convex behind .
The ethmo-nasal bone { et.n .
) is narrower , and the frontal wider ; the parasphenoid { pa.s .
) has lost its keel , and become convex and alate .
The pterygoid { pg .
) has now more diploe above , is growing far down as a thin lamina inside the angle of the mouth ; the dentary { d. ) lies on both sides of the lower half of the cartilage ; above , the supra-angulare { s.ag .
) lies over it , and below , the angulare { ag .
) flanks it .
Section 9.\#151 ; A little further back ( Plate 35 , fig. 6 ) we get a similar section to the last , but the pterygoid ( below p.pg .
) is still more complex , above , and the articular cavity of the hinge of the lower jaw { q.c. , are .c .
) is laid open , and has a piece of the quadrate in its hinder face .
Section 10.\#151 ; This is through the fore part of the eye-ball ( Plate 35 , fig. 7 , e. ) ; and here , the upper part of the chondrocranial mass is thicker ; for it is in the ethmoidal region , and the olfactory nerves ( T. ) now run through tunnels in the closed-in skull .
At this part the suspensorium is cut through in the quadrate region { q.c. ) ' , it appears as a sigmoid tract ; thin above , thicker and rounded below , and with its upper , slightly out-turned , edge not far from the cranial axis .
Below , the basi-hyal ( .
) is becoming more solid .
Here each frontal is mainly a flat lamina , becoming complex externally ; some of the complex outer part , however , belongs to a circumorbital .
Inside the suspensorium the pterygoid { pg .
) is a sigmoid tract of diploe , and below the cartilage a small , triradiate tract of bone is cut through ; this is the preopercular ( p.ojp .
) .
Section 11.\#151 ; Here ( Plate 35 , fig. 8 ) the cranium is cut through where the olfactory lobes ( C16 .
) lie ; it is therefore behind the proper septal portion of the intertrabecula , and shows the beginning of the tegmen cranii { t.cr .
) .
The other parts are similar to those exposed in the last section , but , here , the quadrate bone { q.o. ) is seen in the lower part of the suspensorium , as an enclosing ectosteal plate .
Section 12.\#151 ; A little further back ( Plate 35 , fig. 9 ) the section is through the OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
hemispheres ( C1\#174 ; .
) , and is behind the quadrate bone ; the other parts are similar to those in the last two sections .
Section 13.\#151 ; Here ( Plate 35 , fig. 10 ) the hemispheres ( C1\#174 ; .
) are wider , and with them the cranial cavity , whose walls are thinner , and laterally are partly ossified ; these bones right and left , are the lateral ethmoids ( l.eth .
) ; they were not seen in the dissection of the lesser specimen of this stage ; ( 2 inches long , Plate 34 ; the one sectioned was inches ) ; but these bones are figured in the dissection of the next stage ( Plate 38 , figs. 2 , 3 ) .
Looking at the base of the cranial axis in this and the last three or four sections , we see that the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) fits to a cartilaginous mass having a trilobate outline below ; this arises from the fact that it was formed by the coalescence of three cartilages , viz. : the trabeculae and the intertrabecula .
Section 14.\#151 ; The hemispheres in this section ( Plate 35 , fig. 11 , C1\#174 ; .
) are rapidly widening , and the cranial walls are now deficient , the sides being membranous\#151 ; the orbito-sphenoidal fenestra\#151 ; in the lower half .
The tegmen cranii { t.cr .
) runs down the sides half way , and is grooved above ; the lower edge of the cartilage just touches the optic nerve ( II .
) .
Here the base of the skull has lost its height ; it is concave above , and scooped below .
Here is the hinder end of the intertrabecula , and the trabeculae { tr .
) are each of them crested below .
The suspensorium is very flat here , especially towards the top ; it thickens out again above , and is surmounted there by a small extraneous bony plate\#151 ; the mesopterygoid { ms.jpg .
, see also Plate 34 , figs. 1 , 2 ) ; here the pterygoid ( pg .
) has become a thin plate .
The essentially double nature of the basi-hyal { b.hy .
) is clearly seen in this section .
Section 15.\#151 ; The hinder part of the hemispheres ( Plate 35 , fig. 12 , C1\#174 ; .
) are now cut through , and the tegmen cranii { t.cr .
) is now a thin , sinuous awning thrown over the brain-cavity ; it is hollow above , and convex at the sides .
The frontals ( y !
) are becoming thin , and the hinder superorbitals { s.ob .
) are thick and large .
The trabeculae { tr .
) only are seen in this section , which is through the fore part of the long pituitary space ( see Plate 34 , fig. 3 , pie .
) ' , they are oval in section , and a space equal to their width is filled up between them by the parasphenoid { pa.s .
) .
The suspensorium { q.c. ) has thickened again , and still the same bones are applied to it , namely : the mesopterygoid , pterygoid , and preopercular { ms.pg .
, .\gt ; Below , the section was made behind the basi-hyal , and through the first basi- and hypo-branchials ( b.br .
, h.br .
) ; outside , we see the cerato-hyal { c.hy .
) , with its bony sheath , cut through .
Section 16.\#151 ; In this section ( Plate 36 , fig. 1 ) the skull is cut through close in front of the basi-pterygoids ( Plate 34 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , b.pg .
) ; in this specimen there must have been some little projection backwards from the front tegmen { t.cr .
) , not seen in the one dissected ; this would have made the fontanelle heart-shaped , instead of circular.* * This projection from the front " tegmen " was seen in the last stage ( Plate 32 , fig. 4 , t.cr .
' ) , where the fontanelle has a similar shape to that of a young Salmon of the 2nd week .
( " Salmon 's Skull , " Plate 4 , figs. 1 , 2 .
) Here the cavity of the skull is at its widest part ; further back the width of the head is due to the addition of the auditory capsules , but the hind brain ( C3 .
) is only half as wide as the mid brain ( C2 .
) .
Here the razor passed from the front of the fontanelle , above , to the middle of the fontanelle , below , just where the trabeculae pass into the investing mass ( iv .
) , and behind the optic foramina ( see Plate 35 , figs. 11 , 12 ) ; the section is therefore somewhat oblique , backwards and downwards .
The slight projection from the front tegmen ( t.cr.)is wide apart from the alisphenoidal region , or lateral band of cartilage ( al.s .
) , which is thickish , convexo-concave , and occupies more than half of the side wall .
Below , under the thalamencephalon , the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) is thick and narrow , and is strongly wedged in between the narrowest part of the basal bars ( see also Plate 34 , fig. 3 , tr .
, iv .
, pa.s .
) , which are oval in section , and slightly tilted outside .
Between them and the alisphenoidal tract ( al.s .
) , part of the trigeminal nerve ( V. ) is seen .
Above , the parietals ( p. ) are cut through , and also a lateral bone\#151 ; the squamosal { sq .
) .
Here the suspensorium ( q. ) is , in section , like a drumstick , but feeble below and out-turned , for it thins down towards its lower thickening , and there bends outwards over the small , round symplectic ( sy .
) .
Above , it is round , very solid , and sheathed at the very top with a bony tract ; this is the " metapterygoid " ( .
) which is cut through .
Below , the preopercular ( p.op .
) is seen as a small tract of diploe , enclosing a mucous gland ; inside it , the cerato-hyal , with its ectostosis ( is severed , and further inwards the basi-branchial and the first and second hypo-branchials ( .
, h.br1 .
, Section 17.\#151 ; We have now a section ( Plate 36 , fig. 2 ) close in front of the pituitary body , but missing it ; it is through the infundibulum ( inf .
) below , and the mid brain ( C2 .
) above , and catches the terminal point of the small tegminal projection ; this thin slice was the next to the last , which is not always the case in those which are figured .
Here the basipterygoid processes ( for q. read b.pg .
) are seen as thick wings growing from the front part of the investing mass ; * they are partly ossified by the lower edge of the alisphenoidal centre ; they are thin at their root , thick outside , and they dip a little ; above them , the 5th nerve ( V. ) is cut through .
Here the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) sends out its first pair of angular projections ( Plate 34 , fig. 2 ) , so that it forms a bony floor to the skull .
Above , the parietals and squamosals ( p. , sq .
) are seen in section , and also one of the numerous post-orbital scales .
The symplectic ( sy .
) is cut off where it has a bony sheath , as it passes forwards to the suspensorium .
The cerato-hyal ( c.hy .
) is trilobate here in section ; outside , it is the interopercular ( i.op .
) ; the branchial sections are of the same bars as in the last .
Section 18.\#151 ; This ( Plate 36 , fig. 3 ) is through the fore part of the hind tegmen ( t.cr .
) , and where the mid brain passes into the hind brain ( C3 .
) .
Here the head is slightly concave above ; the roof-cartilage is rather thin , and forms part of a nearly complete cincture , for it is confluent here with the fore part of the auditory capsule ( au .
) , which in * Two errors escaped me in the lettering of this figure , \#151 ; for ( [ \#166 ; read b.pg .
, and for mt.pg .
read OF THE SKULL IN ' LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
turn passes into the investing mass ( iv .
) below .
There the cartilage is a thick wedge , right and left , and the space between the two wedges is filled in by the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) ; in front of the apex of the notochord .
Where these basal plates pass into the capsules there the facial nerve ( VII .
) is severed , and further outwards the capsule has a groove under it in which the fore part of the head of the hyomandibular is seen ; it is partly ossified above and also below as the symplectic .
A neat lip , the rudimentary " tegmen tympani , " is seen outside the rod , and above it the ampulla of the anterior canal ( a.s.c. ) , whose arch also is severed higher up .
The bony tracts below are parts of the large , enfolded , angular interopercular ( .
, see also Plate 37 , fig. 4 , i.op .
) .
The second , third , and fourth hypo-branchials and the middle of the basi-branchial ( 1i.br2_4 .
, b.br .
) are severed , and the gills are seen depending over the fore part of the heart ( b. ) .
Section 19.\#151 ; The roof is now in the superoccipital region ( Plate 36 , fig. 4 , t.cr .
) ; it is twice as thick and only two-thirds the width at this part , as compared with the last .
Here the hind brain ( C3 .
) has only membranous sheets interposed between it and the auditory labyrinth , which is deficient in its cartilaginous wall in this , the region of the \lt ; l meatus internus , " where the auditory nerves ( VIII .
) enter .
The section of the hyomandibular ( hm .
) is here behind the symplectic ; above its head the horizontal canal ( h.s.c. ) is cut through and the end of the arch of the anterior canal ( a.s.c. ) is seen , to come close to the great inner " fenestra " of the capsule .
Here , as in Sharks and Skates , the basal plate ( iv .
) projects beyond the capsules , and in the angular space the 7th nerve ( VII .
) is cut through .
Below , this section is still in front of the notochord , but the parachordals ( iv .
) bend down very near to each other ; they are supported by the parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) .
Here the branchial arches ( Ji.br .
, b.br .
) are cut through near their hinder part ; below , their gills ( g.p. ) are seen hanging over the heart ( h. ) , and the interopercular is seen outside the hyomandibular ( hm .
) .
Section 20.\#151 ; In this slice ( Plate 36 , fig. 5 ) the apex of the notochord ( nc .
) is cut through , and here the auditory capsules have recovered their inner wall ; the end of the horizontal ( h.s.c. ) and the part leading to the common sinus of the anterior ( a.s.c. ) and posterior canals are cut across .
The vestibule ( vb. ) is lessening here , where the back of the " sacculus " is shown .
The hyomandibular is severed behind its head , and outside it the interopercular and subopercular are shown in section in the fold ( op .
) .
Here a ganglionic mass belonging to the 9th and 10th nerves ( X. ) is brought into view ; and above , the parietals and one of the temporal series ( s.t. ) are severed .
Section 21.\#151 ; The back of the auditory capsule , with the ampulla and hind part of the posterior canal ( Plate 36 , fig. 6 , p.s.c. ) , are now severed ; here the double passage for the 9th and 10th nerves and the nerves themselves ( IX .
, X. ) are seen ; the bony laminae are severed that are finding their way into the back of the auditory capsule ; in the cavity of the ampulla , and from the foramen over the top of the oblique lower part of the occipital arch , there are parts of the spreading exoccipitals ( e.o. ) .
The opisthotic and epiotic are formed over the posterior canal later ( see Plate 38 ) .
The two halves of the investing mass , below , form a rest for the oblique plates of the upper part or arch , and are only slightly tilted upwards outside ; they are thick inside and flattish on the outside , and have the notochord ( nc .
) between them ; this rod is , here , ensheathed in bone , and this thick bony sheath has sent a wing , right and left over the basal part of the moieties of the investing mass , which are curling over their external edge , as far as to the edges of the underlying parasphenoid ( .
) ; this ectosteal growth is the basioccipital ( 6.0 .
) .
The top of two of the branchial arches ( p.br .
) , the parietal ( at its end ) , and a supra-temporal bone are also seen .
In this section the occipital arch is seen to be two-winged , right and left ; in the last stage ( Plate 33 , figs. 12 , 13 , iv .
) the section , here , was like an hour-glass .
Section 22.\#151 ; The roof is now ( Plate 36 , fig. 7 , s.o. ) very thick , and here the vagus nerve only ( X. ) is seen with its ganglion ; the back wall of the auditory capsules nearly meet above ; the basal plate ( iv .
) , between the halves of which the osseous sheath of the notochord ( nc .
) is seen , with its right and left basioccipital wings ( b.o. ) , is surmounted by the side plates of the arch ( e.o. ) .
Behind the horizontal canal the combined occipital arch and auditory capsules form large thick shoulders of cartilage ; whilst , above , the arch has three roundish crests ( s.o. ) .
Here the basal plate ( iv .
) is thicker , and as in the last , the parasphenoid is corrugated ; the wings of the basioccipital bone ( b.o. ) do not yet invest the lower face of the cartilage ; the opercular ( op .
) , and a post-temporal scute , are seen in section , as also some parts of the hinder branchial arches ( br .
) , with their pectinate gills and grooving vessels .
Here the peculiar four-fold nature of the occipital arch is well seen , the oblique sides resting on a projecting threshold , through which the notochord , with its bony sheath , runs .
Section 23.\#151 ; The last of the sections ( Plate 36 , figs. 8 , 9 ) figured is through the thinner hind edge of the occipital ring , which is lozenge- shaped , and somewhat winged , right and left , for the side-walls have the same obliquity as the halves of the archway above ; here the threshold is not so wide as in the last section ; it is narrowing towards the end of the projecting basioccipital ( see Plate 34 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , b.o. ) .
The exoccipital ectosteal plate ( e.o. ) is seen inside the converging arch , the right and left plates nearly meet above , and there is no key-stone piece or supraoccipital bone in the rounded median part .
Here the notochord ( nc .
) lies impacted between the basal plates and their ascending arch ; it is the core of a strong basioccipital bone ( b.o. ) , which strongly encloses it , the soft tissue spreading in radiating lobes in the thickening bone-substance .
Laterally , the bone has spread so as to enclose the halves of the investing mass , and runs beyond these parts ; it grows as a right and left sharp plate .
Here the wide corrugated parasphenoid ( pa.s .
) is in two parts , for it is forked behind ( see also Plate 34 , fig. 2 , pa.s .
) .
OF THE SKULL IN ' LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
Sixth Stage.\#151 ; Young Lepidosteus , 4 inches 5 lines long .
In this stage the dermal scutes are so well developed that they can be named and classified ; I shall describe them first , and the endocranium afterwards .
Notwithstanding the size of this specimen it had still the remains of the embryonic suctorial disk at the end of the snout ( Plate 37 , figs. 1-3 ) , forming a pad on the end of the premaxillaries ( px .
) } and lying in a horizontal plane .
The lower jaw just reaches this part , the disk , itself , overlapping it .
The rostral region of the head is twice as long as the cranial ; the opercular bones ( op .
, s.op .
) , pass behind the projecting basioccipital ( b.o. ) The mandibles are two-thirds the length of the head , and as in embryo Frogs , are articulated to the quadrate in front of the eye-ball ; in old Frogs the condyle of the quadrate may reach as far backwards as the opercular folds do in this Fish .
The bony scutes of the hinder part of the head and face do not differ much from those covering the body , except in size ; but in the rostral region , both above and below , but especially below , many of the bony plates are styles of great length and tenuity ; this is a specialization quite like that which is seen in the skulls of longirostral Birds , and in some extinct Sauropsida , e.g. , the Ichthyosaurus .
Most of the bones of the roof are not difficult to decipher , for the eye detects quickly the parietals , frontals , and squamosals ( Plate 37 , fig. 1 , p. , f , .
) ; but nearly the whole extent of the rostrum has to be traversed before we reach the true nasals .
These bones ( n. ) are small crescentic scutes that cover the small , distal olfactory capsules ( ol .
) But along the top of the rostrum , from the ethmoidal region , where the frontals diverge nearly to the nasal roofs , two long , narrow styles of bone are seen ; these I propose to call " ethmo-nasals " ( et.n .
) ; they are manifestly separate centres that correspond to the elongated hinder part of the nasals of a Bird .
The olfactory sac , in both Ganoids and Teleosteans , is devoid of a proper paraneural roof , and the bone covering it is merely one of the many " slime-bones " seen in the skulls of these Fishes ; still , that scute which directly covers the olfactory organ has the first claim to be called the nasal .
The frontals ( f ) in their foremost third are divarcated and styloid , embracing the hind end of the ethmo-nasals { et.n .
) ; they are wide where they meet over the antorbital region , become pinched up to their hinder fourth , and then widen most where they are overlapped by the parietals .
These latter bones ( fig. 2 , p.)are large and oblong , covering the skull well from the middle of the eye-balls to the back of the ear capsule ; they are flanked and overlapped by the temporal series .
The principal temporal bone is the squamosal { sq .
) ; it is a long and irregular triangle , with its sharp end foremost ; its broad end is overlapped by the second large temporal { s.t. ) , which covers the hinder part of the parietal as a rounded scale .
Under it there is a lesser pair , and under these upper , larger bones , there is a considerable patch of small scutes margined by the circumorbital series in front , and the angulated interopercular ( Lop .
) , behind .
The circumorbital series is a very perfect ring of small scutes round the eye-socket ; of these the antero- superior scales are the largest .
A short chain of three or four small scutes runs forwards from the superorbital part of the ring ; these may be called preorbitals ( p.ob .
) ; they are tilted up and form a sort of " eave " to the large convex coronoid part of the mandible .
There , indeed , , in front of the eye-balls the skull is pinched inwards , and set , as in a vice , between the high hinder part of the lower jaw , whose steep , almost vertical , hind margin chafes , so to speak , right and left , against each circumorbital ring ( Plate 37 , fig. 1 ) .
Below the tilted preorbitals there is another short , feeble chain of three or four scutes ; the last but one of these ( m.x^ .
) is as long as the others together , and has all the relations of the free part of the edentulous " os mystaeum , " or maxillary of typical Teleosteans ; the little scute behind it shows the same relations as the small malar ( jugal ) of many Teleostei .
Outside of and protecting the sub-marginal row of mucous glands , there is a long chain of bones ( see Plate 32 , fig. 5 , m.c.g. , and Plate 37 , figs. 1 , 2 , m.x ' .
) ; this series of scutes is the continuation of the mystaceum series but thrice their width ; this may be called the maxillary chain .
This is composed of about fourteen or fifteen very similar scutes ; they are oblong , their width being about half their length .
In front of these the small premaxillaries ( px .
) are seen to be distinct , right and left .
Each moiety ( or centre ) is pointed in front , has a small palatine plate and a dentary edge with sharp teeth ; these rows of teeth ( fig. 3 , px .
) meet in front at an acute angle .
* Behind the palatine plate of the premaxillaries , right and left , there is a long bone in close contact with its fellow of the opposite side , and so slender that the two together are not so wide as a single ethmo-nasal ( fig. 2 , et.n .
) ; these " needles M are the vomers ( fig. 3 , v. ) ; they become covered with a very fine rasp of teeth , and are nearly half the length of the entire skull .
Bounding these , along the palatal face of the rostrum , there is a pair of bones one seventh longer than the vomers , and twice as wide ; these are the *f parosteal palatines ( pa ' .
) .
These bones become invested with a rasp of teeth a degree coarser than that on the vomers .
In the long valley between these palatine splints and the maxillary chain there is a row of large sharp teeth , and on the edge of the chain an outermost row of small sharp teeth .
A very long carinate , trough-like bone runs over the hind part of the two vomers for a considerable distance , and then extends to the end of the skull ; on escaping from them it appears also rough , with a fine rasp of teeth .
Further back these teeth cease , but the bone is carinate up to the basi-pterygoid ( b.pg .
) ; this is the parasphenoid ( Plate 37 , fig. 3 , pa.s .
) This bone is wider in the ethmoidal than * In an old specimen I find a flat eub-arcuate scute binding across in front of the distant pro* maxillaries ; this latter bone might be thought to be an edentulous azygous premaxillary and the two next behind it , not premaxillaries , but the foremost of the maxillary chain ; 1 incline to call it a prenasal .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
in the post-orbital region , but it then widens to thrice its breadth even in the ethmoidal region .
It flanks the basipterygoids ( b.pg .
) with a pair of small wings , is spread out under the auditory capsules ( cm .
) , and applies itself as a forked splint to the under face of the basioccipital ( b.o. ) .
Behind , for three-fifths of their length , the palatine splints ( pci ' .
) are bound on their inner edge by a larger , but similar bone ; this is the pterygoid ( fig. 3 , P9- ) ; both these bones are seen in their relation to the suspensorium in other figures ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , and Plate 38 , fig. 5 , pa ' .
, pg .
) .
The pterygoids acquire a fine bony rasp when they lie close to the palatal surface .
Each bone is a long style in front , and then widens gradually so as to become a broad spatula in the orbital region .
The styloid palato-pterygoid cartilage is applied to its outer face above , but the bone passes backwards , and invests three-fourths of the inner face of the broad suspensorium ( see Plate 38 , pg- ) , ending behind , with a thin , rounded margin .
When these parts are removed from the rest of the skull ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , and Plate 38 , fig. 5 ) their parosteal relation to the prognathous suspensorium is clearly seen .
Over the edge of the suspensorium , in its broadest part , there is a third parostosis ; this is the mesopterygoid ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , and Plate 38 , fig. 5 , ms.pg .
) .
It is a thin , falcate bone above , one-sixth the length , and one-sixth the width , of the pterygoid .
A fourth splint is applied to the suspensorium , and this , like the last , is extremely small as compared with what is seen in the Teleostei ; this is the preoperculum ( p-op .
) ; this bone is falcate , narrow , gently curved downwards , pointed behind , where it lies on the interopercular , and roughly notched in front , where it binds on the outside of the quadrate bone ( q. ) ; it is only one-third the length and one-third the width of the succeeding bone\#151 ; the interopercular ( i.op .
) whereas in the Teleostei it is much the larger bone , as a rule .
The free part of the lower jaw , or mandible , is of great length , and the dentary bone covers it from end to end ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , d. ) ; on the inside ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 , d. ) it is only seen at the edges of the jaw .
Under its upper edge , on the inside , a much smaller bone , three-fourths its length , binds on the upper edge of the cartilaginous axis ( mk .
) ; this is the splenial ( spl .
) .
Behind the splenial , on the inner side ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 cr .
) the coronoid is seen as a pedate tract of bone with its heel behind ; it binds on the inside of the fore part of the large cartilaginous coronoid ( cr.c .
) .
Under the short angular process of the articular cartilage there is a small angulare ( ag .
) , and outside the large , ear-shaped coronoid cartilage , on its convex face , there is a considerable scale of an oval shape , and placed obliquely forwards and upwards ; this is the supra-angulare ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , s.ag .
) .
The specialised " scutes " just described belong to the mandibular arch ; those next to be noticed belong to the hyoid .
On the knob of the hyomandibular a large oval scute is articulated by its capped fore end : this is the operculare ( Plate 37 , fig. 1 , op .
) ' , below this a similar bone is seen , but of an uncinate or semi-crescentic form , with its sharp end behind , and its upper edge inside the operculare ; this is the sub-operculare ( s.op .
) .
Binding on the fore edge of the two last , we see an angulated sub-crescentic bone with its concave edge above , its angulated margin below , and its front point binding under the hind point of the preoperculare .
This is the interoperculare ( Plate 37 fig. 4 , and Plate 38 , fig. 5 , i.op .
) .
These three bones are the hyomandibular splints ; those now to be described belong to the cerato-hyal ; these are the branchiostegals : they are beneath and within the great operculum ( Plate 37 , fig. 1 , and are attached in front to the cerato-hyal .
Generally seven in number in the Teleostei , there are only three here , as in the Carp .
These bones are narrow and falcate , with their concave margin above ; the uppermost is the largest ; the lower is the least .
The remainder of the bones which I have to treat of are intrinsic centres , or " ectostosesthey will come under notice , now , in a description of the endocranium , most of which , however , is cartilaginous .
The endocranium at this stage differs but little from that of the adult , in which , although the bony centres become dense and relatively larger , are yet not altered , either in their number or relations , to any appreciable degree .
In this skull , the " prenasal rostrum/ ' or intertrabecula , is as much developed as in the most specialised of the Selachians\#151 ; namely , the " Pristidse , " or \#151 ; much more than in the ordinary Skate ( " Baiidse " ) .
Here the length of this precranial region is , as compared with the cranial cavity , as 14 to 5 , or nearly three times as long .
In an old specimen the cranial cavity is only 2 inches long , and the whole skull 12jr inches , or 2 to 10^ ; the brain has , relatively , retreated .
Measured from the quadrate condyle , in this young stage , we get the same proportion as the measurement of the precranial to the cranial ; in the old the prequadrate region is 9 inches long , and the post-quadrate 3^ inches .
This remarkable pyriform , long-stalked skull owes its greatest expansion to the superaddition behind of the large ovoidal auditory capsules , and next to them to the greater size , in the young , of the mid brain ; it soon narrows in over the small hemispheres .
As in the last stage , the roof of the mid brain is membranous\#151 ; this is the large circular fontanelle ( Plate 38 , fig. 1 , fo .
) , the margins of which are very moderate bands of cartilage\#151 ; the postorbitat part of the superorbital bands ( see Plate 30 , fig. 8 , so.b .
) .
Below ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , pie .
, pa.s .
) there is a rather large and lanceolate pituitary fontanelle ; and inside the orbits ( Plate 38 , fig. 2 , o.s.f. ) there are the long " orbito-sphenoidal fenestrse .
" The upper fontanelle { fo .
) takes up about a third of the roof , but it is not so long as either the fore or the hind part of the tegmen cranii ( t.cr .
) .
Thus although this is rather a well-developed chondrocranium it has four large membranous deficiencies in it .
The basioccipital ( Plate 38 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , bo .
) might be taken for the centrum of the first vertebra\#151 ; it projects so far behind the exoccipitals ( e.o. ) .
The bony matter , which did occupy much of the sheath of the cranial notochord , is now mainly confined to its hind part , and forms a four-sided mass ; this mass does not run forwards into the rest of the notochord\#151 ; at least on its upper surface ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 , nc .
) .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
This rugous bone is broadest behind , where it is scooped for the first vertebra ; above , it is flattened ; its fore end is emarginate , and its two oblique an ter o-lateral faces are joined by suture to the exoccipitals ( e.o. ) These bones are small lunate tracts behind the passages for the 9th and 10th nerves ( IX .
, X. ) ; the rest of the occipital arch is devoid of bone , for the superoccipital is absent , as in the Amphibia ; that region projects , as an obtuse angle of cartilage , over the foramen magnum .
The auditory capsules project well into the basal plate ( .
) ; their canals ( .
, h.s.c. , p.s.c. ) are large , and easily seen through the transparent cartilage ; both above and below they send their diverticula inwards towards the mid line , so as to make the roof and floor of the skull into the shape of an hour-glass .
The upper part spreads outwards over the horizontal canal , covering the facet for the hyomandibular ( further inwards , below , the swelling " sacculus " on each side makes a notable bulging , which is partly floored by the parasphenoid ( .).Postero-laterally , the capsules are but slightly angulated ; but in front they grow outwards and forwards into an ear-shaped projection , which is separated by a round notch from the root of the superorbital band ( s.ob.c .
) .
That process is the " sphenotic " outgrowth of the chondrocranium in front of the capsule ; it is becoming bony ( Plate 38 , figs. 1 , 2 , sp.o .
) ; also below , in front of the capsule , and surrounding the chinks and openings for the 5th and 7 th nerves ( V. , VII .
) , the prootic centre ( pr.o .
) is spreading into the cartilage ; in front it runs into the back of the corresponding basipterygoid ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , ; and behind it has reached the concavity for the sacculus ( Also above ( figs. 1 and 4 ) , an irregular bony tract is seen imperfectly divided into two patches , which lie over the ampulla of the posterior and the end of the horizontal canal ( p.s.c. , h.s.c. ) .
The upper part is the rudiment of the epiotic ( .
) , the lower portion of the opisthotic ( op .
) .
In front of the basipterygoid ( figs. 2 , 3 , b.pg .
) , and rising upwards from it into the limited tract of cartilaginous wall between the orbito-sphenoidal fenestra and the ear-capsule , there is a bony tract , smaller than the prootic and next in front of it ; this is the alisphenoid ( al.s .
) .
Along the skull base , in front of the projecting basioccipital , there is no intrinsic bony centre , and laterally , the whole orbito-sphenoidal region is membranous .
But where the skull is closing in , in front , the rapidly narrowing cranium has a short tract of cartilage in its sides ; this is the lateral ethmoidal region ; the free border of this cartilage in front of the fenestra is ossified as a crescentic patch ( Plate 38 , figs. 2 , 3 , o.s.f. , l.eth .
) ; this answers to the so-called prefrontal of the Teleostei , but it does not grow out into ethmoidal wings , as in those types .
A very important change has taken place inside the basis cranii , for now there is a very definite " posterior clinoid " bridge , not wall , of cartilage ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 ; it is small , very narrow in the middle , and runs straight across , joining the roots of the trabeculae ( tr .
) together , but lying only at a small height above them .
This is a very feeble rudiment of the thick and high wall , which is developed in this part in most of the " Amniota , " where it runs up in the deep fissure under the mid brain .
However , even here it divides the basi-cranial fontanelle into two parts , a large anterior ( pie .
) and a small posterior space ( !
) .
Thus it is evident that in this , as in other kinds of Ichthyopsida , the basis-cranii is much less affected by the mesocephalic flexure than it is in the Sauropsida and Mammalia .
The main pituitary space ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , pie .
) is lessened by the ingrowth of the trabeculae ( tr .
) ; but in front , it is filled in by the hind part of the long intertrabecula .
The trabeculae are bowed out right and left , between the 5th and 2nd nerves ( V. , II .
) ; the 1st nerve ( I. ) escapes from the front of the enclosed end of the cranium , and runs all the distance to the nasal sacs close to the sides of the intertrabecula The paired trabeculae ( tr .
) do not end where the skull has closed in ; in front of the narrowed tegmen cranii ( Plate 38 , figs. 1 , 2 , the intertrabecula is seen to be narrow above , and to have narrow wings running along its sides .
These wings soon dilate , so as to give the rostral part of the skull an oval widening along the front two-fifths of its hinder fifth .
These parts are the cornua trabeculae , and although they are so short now , they were ( Plate 30 ) , once , the main part of the skull in front , and for some time came little short of the end of the snout .
Now , they are like the right and left sides of a lanceolate leaf , with a huge mid-rib ; only their terminal point is free , and the 1st nerve runs in a groove between them and the long rostrum .
The rostrum ( i.tr .
) is very uniform up to near the front end ; it then becomes slightly alate before ending in a blunt and somewhat decurved point ( p.n. ) ; its section is nearly oval , the thicker end below .
The suspensorium ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , and Plate 38 , fig. 5 ) retains the form it had in the last stage ( Plate 34 ) , but it is twice as large , and its bony centres are now perfect .
The upper bone is the metapterygoid ( mt.pg .
) , it occupies the neck of the suspensorium , leaving cartilage , however , on the concave articular facet\#151 ; for the basipterygoid\#151 ; and also on the short round " trochanter , " below the joint ; this spur is the arrested otic process ( ot.p.).* The quadrate ( q. ) is a bony quadrant running , at its angle , close to the articular condyle ( q.c. ) ; this latter is an elegant convexo-concave trochlea , with its largest convexity on the outside .
The main part of the body of the suspensorium is unossified ; it is a large oblong tract , with its postero-inferior angle rounded off ; it is rather hollow outside and convex within , where it is invested by the pterygoid bone ( pg .
) .
The pterygo-palatine rod ( p-pg- ) is unaltered since the last stage ; it never ossifies , and reaches as far forwards as the cornua trabeculae ( c.tr .
) .
The articulo-Meckelian rod ( ink .
, are .
) has increased in size ( both actually and * In Plate 38 , fig. 5 , below , for read pd .
OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
relatively ) ; its intrinsic centre also , the articulare , has become two separate points of bone ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 , are .
) .
The rest of this long , subarcuate , terete rod ( mlc .
) , runs along the grooved inner face of the dentary ( d. ) nearly to its distal end .
The coronoid crest { cr.c .
) is a very large " ear " of cartilage ; it is convex outside and hollow within ; its fore part is a free lobe .
The hyomandibular ( Plate 37 , fig. 4 , and Plate 38 , fig. 5 , hm .
) is a remarkable bar , about half the size of its ' ' serial homologue " \#151 ; the suspensorium .
Its arched , extended head is a convexo-concave condyle for articulation under the horizontal canal ; behind this there is a cartilaginous knob for the opercular bone .
The bony shaft is short , pinched in the middle , and has an oval fenestra near its front third .
Below the shaft it swells out into a solid bilobate mass , the lesser lobe being behind .
In front of the fore lobe , on the inside , there is a concavity for the inter-hyal The bar from that point becomes the small sigmoid symplectic ( .
) ; it is bent downwards suddenly , and then runs straight forwards to lie along the inside of the hinder third of the lower edge of the suspensorium .
Its bony shaft occupies its hinder two-thirds ; where it becomes straight , there it has a small bony elbow ; its fore end is a blunt point ( Plate 38 , fig. 5 , sy .
) .
The inter-hyal { i.hy .
) is a small pyriform cartilage , its narrow end fits into the concavity in the hyomandibular , and its broad end has a cup on its inner side for the head of the cerato-hyal { c.hy .
) .
The latter segment has a " trochanter " behind its small rounded head ; its shoulder is ossified as a separate epi-hyal { e.hy .
) ; the main shaft { c.hy .
) has its own centre ; it is narrower in the middle , and-is only separated from the stylo-hyal by a tract of cartilage .
The rounded lower end of the cerato-hyal fits into the oblique shallow cup of the suh-globular hypo-hyal { h.hy .
) ; this short segment is ossified on its outer face ; at present , at any rate it has no second centre , as in the Teleostei ; but in these , as in Acipenser , it is completely segmented off from the cerato-hyal .
The basal piece { b.hy .
) is a large " inter-glossal " plate as long as all these three segments above it ; it is oblong , rather pinched in the middle , emarginate in front , thickish , and somewhat fibro-cartilaginous , having cross-bands and reticulating , connective fibres , wrought into it on its upper surface , and its hyaline cartilage somewhat softer than in the other parts .
The basal piece of the branchial system , and part of the first part of hypo-branchials ( b.br .
, h.br .
) are figured .
For the rest , I must refer to the figures and descriptions of the last stage ; these parts have not altered in any important degree \#166 ; \#151 ; except in size .
Comparison with other types , and Summary .
As soon as the primordial cranium becomes sufficiently differentiated\#151 ; as hyaline cartilage\#151 ; to be distinguished from the rest of the cephalic mesoblast , we find a peculiarly simple foundation for all the aftergrowths .
In Stage 1 , in embryo* 10^ m.m. long , nearly all the parts of the chondrocranium\#151 ; including in this term the visceral arches\#151 ; are present ; the hinder arches become broken up , afterwards but the two first , and largest , the mandible and hyoid , are already as much segmented as they will be in the adult .
The skull-floor , only , is developed , as yet , and the rostral part , in front , is not chondrified , but its outlines can be traced , and the roof and walls of the skull are merely developments from the basal bands .
Those bands in this type lend no support to the theory of the visceral ( or ventral ) nature of the pro-chordal tracts or trdbeculce ; they are , manifestly , mere continuations of the undivided pura-chordal cartilages , which expand and contract in relation to the parts around and over them .
They diverge from the front third of the notochord , as though their relation to it was not intimate , and show\#151 ; for a long while at least\#151 ; no tendency to grow up , with that axis , into the hollow of the mid brain .
I see nothing in this lyriform basal skeleton of the skull but an undivided basi-neural structure comparable to , and a primary cephalic variation of , the tracts that form the paired rudiments of the neuro-central cartilages of the spine .
The cessation at the end of the notochord ( mesially ) , and close behind the oral opening , laterally , of the hypo-blastic layer , causes all the pre-oral and pre-pituitary parts to be , in a sense , imperfect ; they are developed as porches and outworks to the full and complete structure further back , but this does not destroy their homology , nor break their continuity with the parts formed from their own embryonic layer , of which they are the direct ongrowths .
Yet all parts growing out , \#151 ; forwards , upwards , or downwards , \#151 ; in front of the perfect axis , which ends close in front of the infundibulum , must be very cautiously named as " serial homologues " of the perfect base and its upper and lower arched growths ; they are probably mere outgrowths ; at most they are only rudiments .
The primary trabeculae are merely direct on-growths of the parachordals ; the cornua trabeculae are ow\#163 ; -growths of the trabeculae .
The intermediate element , or intertrabecula , is a fresh outbreak , so to speak , of the median mesoblast of the axis , which is tubular , behind , where it encloses the notochord , but , re-appearing in front , beyond it , it shoots forth as a solid process of the skeletal axis .
Close to the fore end of the primary trabeculae there arises a similar but rather smaller bar , and the two parts are so close together that they chondrify continuously , these side bars are the palatine cartilages , evidently rudimentary structures .
Here they are not distinct from the long spur ( pterygoid cartilage ) , which shoots forwards from the dorsal element ( suspensorium ) of the mandibular arch ; this is like what we see in the Tadpole , but unlike that which is found in Skates , Teleosteans , and TJrodeles .
Thus , with the palatine included , the suspensorium here is a pcilato quadrate ; in the Skate , Teleostean , and Urodele.the suspensorium is a .* OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
quadrate .
As in the Tadpole , the fore end of this bar is fixed ; as in the Teleostean Urodele , and adult Frog , the hind part , or pedicle , is free .
As in the Tadpole , the suspensorium is sub-parallel with the axis of the skull , and the free mandible ( Meckel 's cartilage ) grows forwards and inwards ; that condition is temporary in the Batrachian , it is permanent in Lepidosteus .
As to the development of the basal bands of the skull , this type agrees with the Selachians and Teleosteans ( Salmo ) in the synchronism of the para- and y\gt ; ro-chordal tracts ; but in Batrachians , Urodeles , and Marsipobranchs , the are developed first ; they embrace the fore end of the notochord closely , and are both para- and pro-chordal ; afterwards the hinder parachordal region is chondrified , separately in Urodeles , and continuously in Batrachians and Marsipobranchs .
The development of the complex hyoid arch is very different in this Holostean Ganoid , and in the Chondrostean Sturgeon , from what we find in Teleosteans , Batrachians , and Urodeles .
In the Salmon the primary bar breaks up into two long bands , with a short segment below ; the foremost is the larger , retains its connexion with the ear-capsule , widens above as the hyomandibular , and narrows , antero-inferiorly , as the symplectic region .
The narrower , hind band becomes postero-inferior in position , keeps the small distal segment , and acquires a new , small segment , above , by which it becomes attached to the space between the hyomandibular and symplectic ; the small upper segment is the inter-hyal , the long bar the epi-ceratohyal , and the short , distal segment the hypo-hyal .
In the lowest Urodele , Proteus , the hyoid arch is composed of two massive segments , one short , the upper or hyomandibular , and the other , the long , lower bar , the cerato-hyal ; this is like that which obtains in Sharks .
In the larger Urodeles ( Menopoma , Crypt ) there is but little difference ( apparently ) in the time of development of the segments , but the upper part breaks up into two segments corresponding to the hyomandibular and symplectic segments in the Sturgeon ; the cerato-hyal is large , and the hypo-hyal breaks up into three pieces .
In many of the Caducibranchiate Urodeles , and in some kinds of Anura ( mandra , Triton , Pseudophryne , Pombinator ) , all but the uppermost part of the hyoid arch is suppressed ; but in the Batrachia , generally , it is developed , as two , three , or even four segments ; these , with the exception of the uppermost , as a rule , do not appear until two or three months after transformation , and are only developed in the Tadpole in rare cases , as in Pseudis and Pipa .
In Lepidosteus and in Acipensev the formation of the segments of the hyoid arch takes place at once during chondrification ; Lepidosteus has the same number of cartilages as the Teleostei , but Acipenser has a distinct symplectic piece\#151 ; a kind of segmentation which is not equivalent to the subdivision of the upper part of a branchial arch into a pharyngo- and an epi-branchial , but the epi-hyal is segmented at its distal fourth .
The basi-hyal of Lepidosteus is remarkable for being very long and essentially double There are only four perfect and one imperfect branchial arches ; the auditory capsules at first , are as distinct as in the Tadpole , their basal region remains membranous for a good while , as in the Salmon .
In embryos two-thirds of an inch in length , more than one-half larger than our first stage , the chondrocranium is larger and stronger , but has few fresh things in it .
The trabeculae and palato-quadrate cartilages are still confluent , but the former are now some distance apart , the binding cells of the former stage being converted into a pyriform mass of true cartilage , with its broad end in front and projecting beyond the paired bands or trabeculae ; this is the intertrabecula .
The pedicle of the suspen-sorium has applied the inner side of its apex to the most curved part of the trabecula , and an oblong joint is forming .
A spike of cartilage has grown forwards from the auditory capsule over the hinder part of the superorbital region ; this structure is seen temporarily in large larvae of Triton , and permanently in Siren .
The divergence of the basal bands is now at its fullest , and the apex of the cranial notochord\#151 ; one-third of the rod\#151 ; is twisted , curves a little upwards , and is far from the moieties of the investing mass .
In young Lepidostei , one-half larger than the last ( 1 inch long ) , the chondrocranium may be said to be complete , and free from intrinsic ossification , except in the sheath of the notochord , the cerato-hyal , and some parts of the branchial arches .
The whole structure is much longer , but most of the increase in length is due to the development of the three basal cartilages in front of the cranial cavity .
The occipital arch is perfect , and the tegmen from it runs well forward .
The superorbital band is now perfect , and in front it passes into an anterior tegmen round the olfactory lobes , and the hemispheres , thus the cranial box is perfect there .
But there is a large pyriform fontanelle below , a larger oval fontanelle on each side in the orbital region , and a still larger membranous space , the great fontanelle , above .
The sudden and immense development of the precranial bars in so short a time is very remarkable ; their relative massiveness makes this skull like that of a young Sturgeon five or six times as large .
In that type the solid rostrum is formed of the two large trabecular cornua , which flank the still larger intertrabecula , like decurrent leaves .
In the Sturgeon there is an antorbital expansion of the lateral ethmoidal region at the end of the rostrum , and each olfactory capsule lies close in front of the antorbital wall , as in a crypt .
But in Lepidosteus the two capsules are carried away to near the end of the snout , and have no cartilage near them except the rostral bar , on each side of which they lie .
Whilst the fore part of the chrondrocranium is like that of a young Sturgeon 5 or 6 inches long , the cranium proper is like that of a Salmon ten or twelve days after hatching , when its length agrees with that of this stage of Lepidosteus , namely , about 1 inch .
OF THE SKULL IK LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
In the Salmon " fry " there is a hinder and a front tegmen cranii , a pair of superorbital bands running from the auditory capsules to the anterior tegmen , a largely open roof between , open orbito-sphenoidal spaces , and an open pituitary fontanelle .
Moreover , this is the " norma " according to which the skull of Polypterus is formed ; but of course during growth it becomes more solid , and partly ossified .
The suspensorium suggests a very mixed relationship in this type ; it runs forwards , parallel with the skull , as in the Tadpole , but its pedicle is now well articulated with a basipterygoid process as in the metamorphosed Frog , and more clearly than in that type prefigures the cranio-facial relation of the Sauropsida , where , as in Lizards and many Birds , the pterygoid portion of the suspensorial apparatus articulates with a basipterygoid outgrowth of the skull .
The open orbito-sphenoidal spaces are seen again in Batrachians , e.g. , in Acris Pickeringii and Rappia bicolor .
The palatine portion of the suspensorium ( or palato-quadrate cartilage ) loses its ethmoidal conjugation , but retains its continuity with the pterygoid cartilage .
The primarily and permanently separate palatine of the " Siluroids " runs forwards in the same manner , with no ethmo-palatine joint , such as is seen in the Salmon .
In adult Batrachians of the genus Bufo the continuity of the palatine cartilage is lost both with the ethmoid and the pterygoid cartilage , but it articulates with the former by a raised process as in the Salmon .
The small size of the hyomandibular of dosteus , and its distance from the mandibular pier , prepare us for the transformations of that part in the Batrachia where it becomes the " columella .
" In a further stage , when it has doubled the size it had in the last instance\#151 ; has become 2 inches long\#151 ; the young Lepidosteus has fairly attained to its own characteristic type of skull , and most of the very limited osseus centres are now apparent .
All the fore face is now greatly drawn out , twice as much as in the last , and the suspensorium , mandible , and lingual cartilages , have shot on forwards in like manner .
The membranous spaces are only different from the last by the upper fontanelle being relatively less , and neatly circular , whilst the lower space is being divided by a late and feeble " post-pituitary " bar with a large anterior , and a small posterior space .
But the type of skull seen in the young " fry " of the Salmon , and in such minute arrested Frogs as the Nearctic Acris Pickeringii , and the Australian Rappia bicolor and Camariolius tasmaniensis , is not departed from , nor , indeed , will be .
But even what is seen in young Lepidostei 2 inches long scarcely prepares us for what we find in specimens a little more than twice that size .
At this stage , as in Sawfishes ( Pristis ) , this prenasal cartilage ( intertrabecula ) has become three times as long as the whole cranial cavity , and six times as long as its associated cornua trabeculse now mere delicate leafy appendages to its base .
The cranium proper has not altered in any important degree since the last stage , but the bony centres are nearly all there ; all those that are seen in the Salmon , or in Teleostei , generally are found , with the exception of the super-occipital and a bone not found , I believe , in the Ganoids , namely , the " pterotic ; " its suppression is correlated with the development of a special MDCCCLXXXII .
3 R temporal scute over the same region ; the " squamosal , " a bone only , exceptionally present in the Teleostei among the Siluroids. .
The post-pituitary band of cartilage , a feeble promise of the solid post-clinoid wall of the " Amniota , " is now complete .
Some things characterising this type are now well seen , namely , the small lateral ethmoidal bone in the thin , closing-in , skull wall without any prefrontal ( ali-ethmoidal ) wing , the double " articular " centre , and the huge coronoid crest to the articulo-Meckelian rod ; these two latter characters are also seen in Amia calva , as shown by Professor Bridge .
The very small size of the preoperculars , the form and size of the interopercular , which here so strongly resembles the preopercular of the Teleostei , are very noticeable in this skull , as also the long chain of bones interspersed between the " os mystaceum " or edentulous maxillary and the premaxillary .
The adult condition of the skull in Polypterus and Amia ( Traqtjair , Jour , of Anat .
and Phys. , vol. 5 , plate 6 , pp. 166-182 ; and Bridge , ibid. , vol. 9 , plate 23 , pp. 605-622 ) presents so many things , both in likeness and contrast , that they must be noticed in conclusion .
In Polypterus , as in Lepidosteus , the four fontanelles are permanently open ; the basioccipital projects far beyond the oblique foramen magnum , and the occipital bone is single , made up evidently of a basal and two lateral pieces , without a supraoccipital ; then there are no pterotics , and the olfactory capsules are sub-terminal .
But in this type there are no epiotics distinct from the opisthotics .
There is a large sphenotic bone , right and left , which takes up the antero-posterior sphenoidal regions and part of the lateral ethmoidal , besides which there is a pair ol lateral ethmoidals which project outwards , and an ethmo-septal bone in front .
The metapterygoid in Polypterus is far from the skull , in which there are no basi-pterygoid processes ; the palatine is a small ectosteal bone ; the hyomandibular has only one centre ; and the preopercular is continuous with the squamosal , as in the Amphibia ; there is no interopercular .
But Amia calva has a skull which comes much nearer to that of Lepidosteus in several respects , but the lateral and inferior fontanelles are filled in , in this solid skull , which comes nearer that of the Physostomous Teleosteans .
The basioccipital projects behind the oblique foramen magnum ; there is no supraoccipital , nor any pterotics , and the epiotics are distinct from the opisthotics .
It has a pair of bones which are not seen in , namely , the orbitosphenoids ; and its so-called prefrontals or lateral ethmoids project , as in the Teleostei .
It has a distinct pedicle to the suspensorium , capped with cartilage , but not forming a definite joint with any distinct basipterygoid .
Its palatine cartilage is ossified both endosteally and ectosteally ; and the whole palato-pterygoid is almost Teleostean in its solidity .
There is a large coronoid crest , and there are two articular bones on each side , as in Lepidosteus .
There is a cartilaginous inter-hyal , articulated between a distinct OF THE SKULL IN LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
hyomandibular and symplectic ; and the upper or styloid end of the cerato-hyal has , as in Osseous Fishes , a separate centre , whilst the hypo-hyal has only , as in Lepidosteus ; in Osseous Fishes it has two .
There are the four normal operculars ; the " os mystaceum " is dentigerous and carries a jugal in its hinder half .
Above the skull , the scutes , which seem to me to be a little misunderstood by Professor Bridge , correspond , in essentials , to those of Lepidosteus .
I should propose the term " azygous parietal " for his cferwio-superoccipital ; " squa-mosals " for his parietals ; and " prerostral " for the azygous transverse bone , which , as in Lepidosteus , furnishes the snout in front , and which is called by him ethmoid .
The olfactory capsules are sub-terminal , and the large nasals , which cover them by their notched fore margin , are evidently the nasals and " ethmo-nasals " of , in one piece , right and left .
Amia is a true Ganoid , and it has several unmistakable diagnostics even in its skull ; but it comes very near to the Physostomous Teleosteans .
Description of the Plates .
Plate .
Fig. Stage .
| Number of times magnified .
30 1 1 Section of the head of an embryo of Lepidosteus 4 lines long 30 2 1 A similar section of an embryo 4^ lines long .
30 99 3 2 Chondrocranium of an embryo 5 lines long ; lower view 36 99 4 2 Section of the head of an embryo 5^ lines long .
30 99 5 3 Section of the head of an embryo 7 % lines long .
22J 99 6 The other half of the same head .
221 99 7 3 Chondrocranium of an embryo -f-inch long ; lower view . . . . . .
\#171 ; . . .
* 30 99 3 The same skull ; upper view . . . . . .
\#171 ; 30 99 9 3 Head of same embryo ; lower view 15 31 1-15 3 A series of vertically transverse sections through the head of an embryo 7^ lines long . .
30 32 1 4 Chondrocranium of an embryo 1 inch long ( nearly ) .
24 Upper view 99 2 4 The same object ; lower view 24 3 r 2 Plate .
Fig. Stage .
.Number of times magnified .
32 3 4 Part of basis-cranii of same skull ; upper view .
36 99 4 4 Section of the head of an embryo of the same stage .
24 99 5 4 Upper view of head of same stage .
Seen partly as a transparent object 24 99 6 4 Part of hyoid arch of same .
24 33 1-13 4 A series of vertically transverse section of an embryo , 1 inch long ( nearly ) .
27 99 14-16 5 First three of a series of vertically transverse sections of a young Lepidosteus 2-^ inches long .
20 34 1 5 Dissection of skull of young Lepidosteus , 2 inches long ; chondrocranium with some of the parostoses attached ; upper view 12 99 2 5 The same object ; lower view ... ... .
12 99 3 5 Part of basis eranii of same skull ; upper view .
15 99 4 5 Inferior arches of the same skull 12 35 1-12 5 4th to 15 th of a series of vertically transverse sections of a young Lepidosteus , 2^ inches long .
20 36 1-8 5 16th to 23rd of a series of vertically transverse sections of a young Lepidosteus , inches long .
20 99 9 5 Part of fig. 8 60 37 1 6 Skull of a young Lepidosteus 4 inches 5 lines long , with superficial bones in situ ; side view .
6 99 2 6 The same skull ; upper view 6 99 3 6 The same ; lower view .
6 99 4 6 The inferior arches of the same skull ; outer view .
n 38 1 6 Chondrocranium of a young Lepidosteus 4 inches 5 lines long ; upper view .
61 99 2 6 Hind part of same ; lower view 99 3 6 Part of basis-cranii of same ; upper view 13^ 99 4 6 Part of chondrocranium of same ; upper view .
13^ 99 5 6 Inferior arches of the same skull ; inner view .
7iJ Fhil .
Trans. 1882 .
Plate .
30 Phil. Trans. 1882 .
Plate 31 .
iSt*"*- LEPID OSTEUS .
\#166 ; WostKawyMOuw Sb Phil. Ttoms .
1882 .Plate " WestHerami\#171 ; C ?
imjp LEPID OSTEUS 2 x 27 i-.Pr Phil. Trans. IS82 .
Plate33 .
I ja.oh 4- x 27 . .
Ltr -poo ' 3 ^ x 27 5 m a* ir* k " **\#166 ; k* *.* ^\#171 ; r\#174 ; \gt ; 27 / .^ .
\amp ; r j j ' .
j * -i-i-A tilt ; r " ^ - vtlJc .
'/ _ -yvv .fc.kj 8 x 27 !
.^^=S333SS3 ; '- " ' v ' But , \#166 ; \#166 ; 222i:^ Cr^a=c yyi , s.f\gt ; c$---^Y.- - - r~ l3-h-y'"\t3 X k V v '0\gt ; " ________________ !
ft , lrr C3 I .
- / Sf .
l ' rk\#151 ; ' ' x\#151 ; \#166 ; ^*XxjrxpxX\amp ; P ' 7 x 27 c* W. , ^k..-s .
ob.c \\ a___t* sy -c.-Wy K.'br -rTT7\gt ; ^ .
-t .
cr b. hr 9 x 27 jf ^.SL ; 12 x 27 n-.s.c v\ HL^ ' r * ikbr b.br c.br ' 27 G ?
\ rf-c.'br X \#166 ; ^'b.'br To .b* C9 iv x hy.br* b.br -Per 11 x 27 JL5 x so 1G x \#163 ; 0 .
efc.rt c.br i.fcv BllS hy.br jrker .
JPhil .
Trans. 1882 .
Plate 31 .
3 x 20 JPhil .
Tra/ ns .
1882 .
Plate 35 .
w--^ ' -vrz r- ?
9 \gt ; VL 9 x"io L. e"h||gWi H ig#4 mi '^SSE^ ^njc.ir*s* !
^-XEM3s*:a| yr^s.J\gt ; a m\lt ; s : Klrr ' .
" '^.ad .
Mocfc .
\#166 ; adter 1-i+T .
LEPIDOSTEUS .
Phil. Trans.\#166 ; 1882 .
Plate 36 -r Phil. Trans. 1882 .
Plate 37 .
4* x 7 % LEPIDOSTEUS .
W\#169 ; jyflr .
TSl'eWJ'tiam \amp ; 0\#174 ; lttlP Phil. Trans.1882 .
Flcube 38 .
West-Ue-wmotarL\amp ; C ?
amjp .
adirujtb .
ILQl .
TEPID OS TEXTS .
OF THE SKULL IK LEPIDOSTEUS OSSEUS .
List of Abbreviations .
The Roman figures indicate nerves or their foramina .
ag .
Angular .
hm.f .
Hyomandibular fenestra .
al.s .
Alisphenoid .
h.s.c. Horizontal semicircular canal .
are .
Articular .
i.hy .
Inter-byal .
are .c .
Articular cartilage .
inf .
Infundibulum .
a.s.c. Anterior semicircular canal .
i.op .
Interopercular .
au .
Auditory capsule .
i. t Intertrabecula .
au.f .
Auditory fenestra .
y. J ugal .
b.a. Basilar artery .
l.eth Lateral ethmoid .
b.br .
Basi-branchial .
m. Mouth .
b.hy .
Basi-hyal .
m.c.g. and m.g. Mucous gland .
b.o. Basioccipital .
mb .
\#166 ; Meckel 's cartilage .
b.pg .
Basipterygoid .
mn .
Mandible .
C1 .
Fore brain .
ms.pg .
Mesopterygoid .
C2 .
Mid brain .
mt.pg .
Metapterygoid .
C3 .
Hind brain .
mx ' .
, mx. " Maxillary .
c.b\ Cerato-brancbial .
my .
Myelon .
c.hy .
Cerato-hyal .
n. Nasal .
cl Cleft .
nc .
Notochord .
cr .
Coronoid .
ol .
Olfactory capsule .
cr.c .
Coronoid cartilage .
op .
Opercular and opisthotic .
c.tr Cornua trabeculae .
op.p .
Opercular process .
d. Dentary .
osf .
Orbito-sphenoidal fenestra .
e. Eye .
ot.p .
Otic process .
e.br .
Epi-branchial .
p- Parietal .
e.hy .
Epi-hya ! .
pa. Superficial palatine .
ep .
Epiotic .
pa.s .
Parasphenoid .
et.n .
Ethmonasal .
p.br .
Pharyngo-branchial .
f Frontal .
p.cl .
Posterior clinoid .
fo .
Fontanelle .
pd .
Pedicle .
g-p- and br.p .
Gill processes .
pg .
Pterygoid .
h. Heart .
pnl .
Pineal gland .
h.br .
Hypo-branchial .
p.ob .
Preorbital .
b.hy .
Hypo-hyal .
p.op .
Preopercular .
hm .
Hyomandibular .
p.pg .
Palato-pterygoid .
hm.c .
Hyomandibular facet and con- p.px .
Palatine process of premaxillary .
dyle .
pro .
Prootic .
pt.o .
Post orbital s.op .
Subopercular .
px .
Premaxillary .
sp.o .
Spbenotic .
py- Pituitary body and space .
s.t. Supratemporal .
y- Quadrate .
su.ob .
Suborbital .
q.c. Quadrate condyle .
*y- Symplectic .
s.ag .
Supra-angular .
t.cr .
Tegmen cranii .
s.d. Sucking disk .
tr .
Trabecula .
spl .
Splenial .
V. Vomer .
s.ob .
Supraorbital .
s.ob.c .
and s.ob .
Supraorbital cartilage .
vb. Vestibule .

