XVI , Observations and Experiments on Pus .
By George Pearson , M.D. F.R.S. Read July 5th , 81io .
CHEMICAL writers vary in their statements of the properties of pus ; and they consider that a further investigation is requisite for the purposes of science .
Physicians confess that , in numerous cases , they cannot form a satisfactory judgment of the nature of diseases , on account of not being able to determine what is , and what is not purulent matter ; likewise probably , on account of the existence of different kinds , or varieties , at least , of this substance , afforded by different disorders , I beg leave , therefore , to submit to this learned Society , my own observations , experiments , and reasoning on this animal matter .
SECTION I. Simple , and obvious Properties .
The different kinds of fluid , commonly considered to be pus , may be distinguished by the following titles : I. The cream-like and equally consistent .
II .
The curdy and unequal in consistence .
III .
The serous and thin kind .
IV .
The thick , viscid or slimy .
I. A pint of the first sort was taken out of the pericardium , after a fatal inflammation of the heart , in St. George 's Hos .
pital , and obligingly sent to me by my colleague , Dr. E. N~:BANCROFT , The colour was yellowish the smell was fleshy when warmed-it was smooth and unctuous to the touch .
2 .
The specific gravity of two different portions , was as 630o and 1633 , that of distilled water being 158o ; each substance being of the same temperature .
Serum of the blood of different patients , was found at the same time to be 1626 , 1627 , and 1630 .
Accordingly , the distilled water being iooo , the pus is 031 , and 1033 ; and the serum is 1029 , and 1031 .
3 .
After 12 hours repose , about two ounces by measure of a limpid fluid having appeared on the top , it was decanted from off the opaque purulent fluid ; which was become thinner in the upper part of the vessel containing it , and thicker in the lower than before .
4 .
On further repose , it did not become offensive so soon as a portion of the same pus mixed with a little blood , nor as serum alone .
5 .
This pus neither indicated acidity nor alkalescency to the usual tests , viz. turnsole paper , tincture of red cabbage , Brazil-wood paper , and turmeric paper .
I have , in other instances sometimes , observed acidity to be indicated by turnsole paper ; but in none alkalescency , so long as the matter remained without foetor .
6 .
Being examined under the microscope , when duly diluted with distilled water , innumerable spherical particles were seen , which did not appear altered in figure , nor diminish in number by extreme dilution ; that is , they did not appear to have been dissolved .
II .
A pint of pus of the second kind , viz. curdy , was afforded by a psoas abscess .
The colour was brown .
It felt knotty .
On pouring from Qq one vessel to another , the curdy masses were manifest , and of various sizes , from that of a pin 's head to a hazel nut .
It was more viscid than the former , and of a little greater specific gravity .
On standing , a limpid fluid appeared upon the top , as in the first kind , but in snmaller quantity .
Globules were seen with the microscope , but also a number of irregularly figured larger masses .
Putrefaction took place sooner than in the former kind .
In other properties , this pus was similar to the first kind , III .
Serous thin pius .
It Was produced by a fatal inflammation of the peritoneal coat , without ulcer , and taken out of the cavity of the abdomen .
A good deal of serum was also effused , of which the pus was a deposit .
It was not much thicker than milk .
To the feeling it was not at all unctuous .
The smell was slightly offensive .
On standing 24 hours a sediment appeared , occupying only one half the full vessel , under a whey-like liquid .
Putrefaction took place sooner than in either of the two former kinds .
The specific gravity was the same as that of the first sort .
In other properties it was similar to the cream-like pus above distinguished .
IV A pint of the viscid pus was obtained from an abscess among the muscles of the thigh .
If I had not had entire confidence in Mr. BRODIE'S accuracy , who was so obliging as to attend to my request , on this and many other like occasions , I should have supposed , that this was expectorated matter , it so exactly resembled in its simple properties , the ropy kind , described in a paper on expectorated matter .
Phil. Trans , 1809 , P. I. p. 317 .
The appearance was not quite uniform , there being semitransparent masses in small proportion , mixed with the X996 perfectly opaque white matter .
It was almost inodorous .
To the touch it was quite smooth .
The specific gravity was nearly that of the second kind of pus .
On standing 24 hours , about one ounce measure of limpid fluid rose to the top of the whole mass .
Putrefaction did not take place so soon as in expectorated matter of the same consistence .
The examination by the microscope manifested innumerable spherical particles among leafy masses , and numerous particles of irregular forms .
The simtple properties were otherwise similar.-to those of the other sorts of pus , above distinlguished .
Many other differet , ces of puruient matter are universally recognized ; but they are either varieties of the four kinds already named , or the differences depend upon the obvious mixture with adventtiuus substances ; such as the red part of the blood , coagulated lymph , serum , putrefied matter , tibrous and membran , uus masses , calculi , &amp;c. : therefore , I deem it useless to describe them .
SECT .
II .
Agency of Caloric .
1 .
The above kinds of pus coagulated like serum of blood , into a firm , uniform , soft solid , at the temperature of i65 completely ; but partially at 160 ?
of FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer .
2 .
The decanted limpid fluid from pus , Sect. I.-I .
II .
II .
IV .
coagulated completely into a firm uniform mass , like serum of blkod , at 165 ' , but it became opaque and thickened at i0o ? .
By pressure of the firm curd thus produced , a wa-ery liquid was separated , which on due evaporation did not give a jetly , but was coagulabie like the decanted liquid just mentioned .
297 The thick opaque matter , after decanting the limpid fluid , coagulated as before said , into a firm mass at 165 .
3 .
Each of the above four kinds of pus being evaporated to dryness , left in no case less than one tenth of its original weight , nor more than one sixth ; but most frequently one seventh , to one eighth of brittle matter .
The smallest proportion of residue was left by the gd , or serous kind ; the largest , by the 2d or curdy .
These residues generally became rather soft , especially those of the gd , or the serous kind , after exposure to the air .
4 .
The opaque part of pus after separating the limpid fluid afforded on evaporation about t to ~3 more of brittle residue , than an equal weight of the pus itself ; and it remained hard on exposure to the air .
The limpid fluid evaporated to dryness , yielded about one tenth of brittle residue ; which grew moist , and sometimes deliquesced , on exposure to the air .
5 .
The brittle residues above mentioned ( 3 ) , being exposed to fire in platina crucibles , flamed for some time , emitting a very offensive , pungent , empyreumatic smell ; the unin .
flammable residue being kept in a state of ignition for a longer period , what remained at length was fused readily from the sercus , viz. the third kind of pus ; but in the cases of the other exsiccated residues of the ist , 2d , and 4th kinds of pus , they barely were melted , or only became soft and claggy .
The fused residues from the serous pus , amounted to to x of the exsiccated pus ; and to to to of the original purulent matter .
Those from the second kind , the curdy , amounted to x to , of the dried matter , and to -^ to of the pus itself .
The fused masses from the ist and 4th kinds of purulent matter , afforded intermediate quantities of melled matter between those just mentioned .
6 .
The fused residues ( 5 ) , being treated in the manner described in a former paper , Phil. Trans. 18o , P. II .
p. 326-329 , I found they consisted chiefly of muriate of soda , phosphate of lime , and potash ; with strong indications of carbonate of lime , and a sulphate ; besides traces of phosphate of magnesia , oxide of iron , and vitrifiable matter , probably silica .
Oi a reasonable calculation , it appeared , that in the serous kind of pus , the muriate of soda amounts to from one and a half , to two per l oo ; the phosphate of lime to one , to one and a half per looo ; the potash to one half , to three fourths of a part in this quantity ; and the other matters together , to half a part in 1ooo .
In the curdy matter , the second kind , the muriate of soda amounts to three fourths of a part , to one in a 1ooo ; the phosphate of lime to one ; the potash to less than one half ; and the other matters united , to half a part in a looo , The first kind of pus , the cream-like , and the fourth , the viscid , afforded from the melted residue , the same substances as the serous kind , excepting a somewhat smaller proportion of mturiate of soda , and potash .
7 .
The brittle residues of evaporated pus , after decanting the limpid fluid ( 4 ) , being treated with fire as above related , the remaining matters were melted with more difficulty , and less completely , and contained a smaller proportion of muriate of soda and potash than the original pus .
8 .
The decanted limpid fluids ( 4 ) , bking evaporated to dryness , these residues were exposed to fire .
They were melted , and then afforded a larger proportion of niuriate of soda and of potash , than the pus itself ; but with tree same proportioa of the other saline and earthy substances , 299 SECT .
III .
Agency of Water .
i. After decanting the limpid fluid from off half a pint of the four kinds of pus as above related , ( Sect. I. ) three ounces measure of distilled water were mixed with each of them .
After 48 hours repose , a limpid fluid of nearly the quantity of two ounces by measure , was seen forming an upper stratum to the pus .
It was decanted for examination .
( a ) On exposure to fire it became turbid like milk , as soon as the tehpetrature was elevated to 165 ?
, but did not become thicker at a greater elevation .
( b ) On evaporation to dryness , the residue amounted to about one fifteenth of the weight of the liquid from the serous pus , and to one twentieth from the three other kinds ; in place of about one tenth , as from the first decanted liquid , ( Sect. I. 4 ) ; and as from serum of blood .
The , residuary matters were of the same kind as those above described , Sect. II .
2-,6 .
( c ) Three ounces measure of distilled water having been again mixed with each of the four kinds of pus , and in 48 hours , two ounces measure of decanted limpid fluid from each , having been evaporated to dryness , residues of the same kind , in the same proportions , and in nearly the same quantities as before , were obtained ( b ) .
These decanted fluids became nearly as turbid as the former , on raising their temperature to 165 ? .
( d ) Distilled water was added a third time in the quantity of eight ounces by measure , to each of the four parcels of pus under examination , and after 48 hours repose , six ounces of limpid fluid were poured off from each of them .
At the temperature of 165 ?
, the decanted fluids became turbid ; that of the serous pus more so than the others .
On evaporation to dryness , a much smaller quantity of residue was obtained than before , viz. one sixtieth from the serous pus , and one seventieth from the others ; and it consisted of the same kind of substances as above described ; but the muriate of soda and potash were in smaller proportion than before .
( e ) A fourth time distilled water in the quantity of a pint , was mixeId with the present four parcels of pus , and after standing 48 hours , three fourths of a pint of clear colourless liquid was poured off from each of them .
It became slightly turbid and whitish on boiling .
On evaporation , each parcel afordead about j of the fluid employed .
The residues now consisted of animal matter , with a much smaller proportion than before , of muriate of soda , phosphate of lime , and potash-nothing else could now be traced .
( f ) Distilled water in the quantity of a pint , was once more mixed with the four sorts of purulent matter undergoing inquiry .
After 48 hours , a pint of liquid was decanted from offeach of them ; but being slightly turbid , they were left to stand 24 hours .
By this time a sediment was deposited from each of the liquors ; but being still , though very slightly , turbid , they were filtrated through suitable paper .
They were then transparent .
The transparent filtrated liquors had their transparency disturbed by a boiling temperature .
They became also slightly milky , with nitrate of silver , but scarcely so with infusion of gall nut .
On evaporation to the quantity of an ounce from each pint , the residuary liquids appeared slightly globular .
These , on evaporation to dryness , yielded not more than one part of animal matter , from each 500 of the transparent filtrated liquids .
i(g ) On standing three or four days in a cold room , the parcels of pus , after the ablutions just related ( a-f ) , exhibited a whey coloured liquor at the top , of whnich about of a pint was poured off from them .
More turbid iiquor was also separated from the washed pus , by pourinvg it upon1 a porous cottoi cloGth strainer , which left purulent attera of the consaistnce of starch mucilage , amounting to about one haaf the original weight .
( h ) The pus freed from coagulable limpid liquid by repeated ablutions ( a--h ) was white as snow-equal in consistence -perfectly smooth the 4th kind was less viscid than before , but the others were more so-no smell-not at all disposed to putrefy-on elevating its temperature to 165 ?
and higher , it did not coagulate into one mass , nor into clots , or large masses of curd , but a watery fluid separated from a fine soft somewhat curd-like opaque fluid ; which did not become more curdy , on even bo lng-i dd not appear that above a grain of this part , or state of pus , dissolved in iooo waterswas highly globular under the microscope , and remained so , although coagulated by nitrate of silver ; by infusion of gall nut ; by alcohol ; and super-sulphate of alumina--with muriate of ammonia , nitrate of potash , and other neutral salts , and with carbonate of potash , it produced a viscid semi-transparent mass like expectorated half transparent matt-exposed to fre in a platina crucible , it was inflamed , but did not emit an offensive siell , and after continuing the ignition , the residue was a particle of half fulsed matter , not amounting to oof the pus after b t , i , , -or abtove -a of e same natter exsiccated ; it consisted of phosphate of limie and vitrified matter-no ammonia was perceivable , on t ining limie vfith this washed pus ; nor muriatic acid on adding sulphuric acid .
t. .
( a ) A tea spoonfri ol oftile crm-like pi s , being agitated in half a pilt of distilled water , produced a mfilky fllid , with a number of small curdy particles suspended , but very few leafy or fibrous pieces or clots , ( b ) The serouspus being treated as just mentioned ( a ) , the same appearances ensued .
( c ) The curdy pus being agitated in the sane malnner iit water , a number of clots , leafy , and fibrous masses , were seen suspended among fitle small curdy particles in a pearly liquid , ( d ) The viscid pus being treated as just said , it required long continued , and violent agitation , to diffse it through the nater , and then the appearances were as last described .
, .
Pus of any kind , after boiling in twenty times its quantity of water , was quite as globular under the microscope as previously .
With a smaller proportion of water , the mixture became very turbid , sometimes clots were formed in a pearl liquid , in which a fine sediment took place , which appeared much more globular than the clots or curdy masses .
4 .
In general , water in which pus has been agitated , remains somewhat milky , with an abundant close white sediment ; but after two , or three , or more ablutions , the water becomes clear on standing , and the sediment more curdy .
SECT .
IV .
Agency ofAlcohol of ie .
The dierent kinds of exsiccated pus exposed to the agency of tis menstruum , and treated as described in a former paper , Phil. Trans. 18o9 , P. II .
p. 329 , the results were similar , except in the proportion of products .
i. These exsiccated substances asTrded to this menstruum a smaller proportion of potash , but as much animal oxide and uriate of soda , as mLcous sputut R. r The undissolved matter left after repeated digestions in this menstruum , afforded the same substances , but in smaller proportions , as mucous sputum .
S. Equal bulks of fresh pus , and rectified spirit of wine , afford a much thicker and more milky liquor , with a closer sediment , than expectorated mucous matter .
SECT .
V. Agency of acetous Acid .
The purulent matters mixed with this acid became curdy , and rendered it milky ; but on standing , a close white sediment appeared , the liquid above being clear , except in the case of the viscid pus , which exhibited leafy and fibrous masses , as hath been described with mucous sputum .
By repeated digestion of the different kinds of pus in this menstruum , I obtained the same results , except the proportions of acetite of potash , and muriate of soda being smaller , as related in a former paper on mucous expectorated matter .
Phil. Trans. 1809 , P. II .
p. 336 .
SECT .
VI.-Some Experiments with different Objects , especially to distinguish Pus and Mucus .
2 .
In the agency of sulphuric , nitric , and muriatic acids , in sufficient quantity to dissolve and decompound the substances under inquiry , I could perceive no important difference between them .
The purulent matters indeed , required a much greater proportion to completely dissolve them , than the transparent sputum .
Also the more opaque and dense the sputum , the greater the resistance to dissolution .
Sulphuric acid produced black liquids like those containing charcoal , smelling strongly of muriatic acid , but on dilution with water , they became clear .
No precipitation occurred on dilution with water , and on S ?
4 saturation with the fixed alkalies , but a trifling sediment appeared , which re-dissolved on the addition of the above acids .
2 .
The mineral acids diluted , or added in small proportion , and the vegetable acids , coagulate variously pus and mucous fluids .
Some become merely milky fluids , others curdy fluids , others afford fibrous and leafy masses in a transparent liquor , and others give an uniform thick mass of curd .
On standing the deposits are accordingly of various forms , and the liquors above of various appearances , but I could discover no constant characteristic property of the substances by these experiments , as some writers have asserted .
s3 The solid fixed alkalies , or lime , mixed with expectorated mucus , occasion a stronger smell of ammonia than with pus ; or than with muco-puruient sputum .
Some use may be perhaps made of this easy experiment to judge of the nature of varieties of the fluids in question , particularly as far as depends on the proportion of ammonia : for sometimes it cannot be perceived by the smell on mixing alkalies , but can by muriatic acid giving white vapours .
Concentrated liquid alkalies , added to both pus and mucus , dissolve them to produce clear liquids , except small curdy parts and motes .
These curdy parts and motes resist dissolution also for some time even in nitric acid , and seem to be self-coagulated lymph .
They are in much greater proportion in pus than mucus .
The addition of acids to these alkaline dissolutions , occasions precipitations , but no differences , or not with sufficient uniformity to afford criteria , were observed according to the observations of otherExpzrimenters .
4 .
Concentrated aqueous solutions of various neutral salts , viz. muriate of ammonia ; nitrate of potash ; muriate of soda ; .
particles visible only by the microscope in this opaque oxide , and in small number in the limpid fluid ; not coagulable by any temperature to which hitherto exposed , and not destructible by many things which combine or destroy the opaque oxide ; and these globules are specifically heavier than water.* 2 .
That the visible curdy masses , as well as the fibrous or leafy parts , almost always contained in smaller or larger quantities in pus , may be considered as self-coagulated lymph , which in its fluid state is secreted without having the state of aggregation produced in it like that of the essential opaque oxide of pus.-Sect .
VIL .
i. 2 .
That the reddish , the blackish , and the dark brown rolour of pus depends upon the red part of the blood effused or secreted from the same vessels , or from contiguous ones which secrete puss 4 .
That on some occasions the clotty and irregularly figured masses found in the pus may depend upon disorganization or breach of the contiguous solid parts .
5 .
That whenever pus is foetid to the smell , a portion of it is in the state of putrefactive fermentation , which may be removed by ablutions with water .
6 .
That there are certain adventitious matters liable to be contained in pus not hitherto rendered palpable to the senses , but known by their effects in exciting contagious diseases ; such as small-pox , syphilis , &amp;c. These matters are produced by a specific action in the secretory organs of pus , by such the square pieces being removed , were found wet with a limpid fluid .
In this state they were inspected by the microscope , by which numerous globules were seen .
In ten minutes furtier the liquid was no longer limpid but opaque like pus , in which the usual spherical particIes were seen with the microscope as just mentioned .
Supposing objections might be offered on account of the alteration of texture of the skin employed , square pieces of glass were also applied .
The results were the same in both trials .
The two gentlemen above named , as well as Dr. RICHARD HARRISON , and other pupils , who happened to be present , all concurred in the observation , that the limpid matter became opaque , and that while limpid it was , like pus , full of spherical particles .
SECT .
VI .
V Conclusions .
The statement of the properties of pus in the foregoing inquiry I hope will be found to be true ; and I submit to the judgment of otheors whether or no the following inferences are leg , timately establshed .
1 .
Tha-t this fluid essentially consists of three distinct substances , viz. i ' .
An animal oxide , which , among other properties , is distinguished by its being white opaque , smooth , of the frin of fine curdy prticles in water ; not dissoluble in less than ooo cold waters ; not coagulable into one mass like serum of blood by caloric , alcohol , &amp;c. ; only rendered more curdy by water of 16oo to 170o ; but readily diffusible.-2 .
A limpid fluid rese mbirnP serve ::n of blood in its impregnations and in its coagulability by caloric , alcohol , &amp;c. ; in which the opaque oxide is dibusiabe but noL dissoluble , and which is specifically lig ter than that oxide.-3 Innumerable spherical 307 particles visible only by the microscope in this opaque oxide , and in small number in the limpid fluid ; not coagulable by any temperature to which hitherto exposed , and not destructible by many things which combine or destroy the opaque oxide ; and these globules are specifically heavier than water.* 2 .
That the visible curdy masses , as well as the fibrous or leafy parts , almost always contained in smaller or larger quantities in pus , may be considered as self-coagulated lymph , which in its fluid state is secreted without having the state of aggregation produced in it like that of the essential opaque oxide of pus.-Sect .
VII .
i. g. That the reddish , the blackish , and the dark brown colour of pus depends upon the red part of the blood effused or secreted from the same vessels , or from contiguous ones which secrete pus .
4 .
That on some occasions the clotty and irregularly figured masses found in the pus may depend upon disorganization or breach of the contiguous solid parts .
5 .
That whenever pus is foetid to the smell , a portion of it is in the state of putrefactive fermentation , which may be removed by ablutions with water .
6 .
That there are certain adventitious matters liable to be contained in pus not hitherto rendered palpable to the senses , but known by their effects in exciting contagious diseases ; such as small-pox , syphilis , &amp;c. These matters are produced by a specific action in the secretory organs of pus , by such natters tlemselves either contained in the cireulatig blood , or on the secreting'surface .
7 .
That the essensial substances of which pus consists , as well as so.e oftle adventitious ones ( Sect. VII .
i2 , 2 , , 6 ) , are separated from the blood by a peculiar orgaization belonging , or attached to the blood-vessels : which organ of separation or secretion are not only excited to the action which produces pus in diseased states , but they are evidently influenced by the states of other distant organs of the animal coconomy ; hnence matly varieties in the properties of the purulent matter .
8 .
That the varieties of purulent matter relate to differences of qutnlity the proportion of the essential substances ( 1)and the adventitious parts ( 2 , 3 , 4 , , , ) .
The cream-like pus consisting of almost purely the opaque oxide and limpid liquid ( I. i , e ) .
The curdy contaning a large proportion of coagulated lymph , or broken down solids .
The serous abounding in limpid fluid .
The viscid depending upon the coagulation , and perhaps , inspissation , by union of neutral salts with the opaque oxide .
9 .
That as the essential parts are secreted in a limpid state , but presently become opaque , owing to a large proportion spontaneously coagulating , and thus becoming the opaque oxide , mixed with the serous liquid , and innumerable spherical particles ( Sect. VII .
I. , 2 , 3 ) , it seems reasonable to infer that these matters are the self-coagulated lymph of the blood and serum , separated by the secretory organs ; which act of svcrtion determines the subsequent state of a , ggregation of pus , and the globules are at the same time formed analogously totheir formation by other secretory organs How far thy are *mDC.~x Ss 4 ) those of the blood altered by secrtin ma edeermined hereafter .
It is a collateral pr &lt; osf -c ?
n : !
s * !
:~:~:te til t v-ry thick pus affords one sixth toone e c-v ~e xs.ica-crd brittle residue , which , as I have found , is nteary le s : in pIroportion afforded on the exsiccattion of the buy c jat of indflamed bloodwhlile very thin pus atbords on xsiccation one eightho to one eleventh of brittle residue , wiich is the proportion tto be expected from a mixture of serum of blood and self-coagulated lymph , as I have ascertained .
10 .
That the constant impregnating saline and earthy ingredients of pus , are dissolved in the serous fluid , and are all separable along with the serum , by ablutions with water , from the opaque oxide ( i ) , except a portion of the phosphate of lime .
These impregnations are the same as those of serum of blood , and of expectorated mucous matter , viz. muriate of soda ; potash neutralized by animal matter or a destructible acid : phosphate of lime ; ammonia neutralized probably by phosphoric acid ; with a sulphate and traces of some other matters mentioned in my former paper .
The proportion of these impregnating substances is as the proportion of limpid or serous coagulable fluid , and of course inversely as the proportion of the opaque oxide of pus &gt; ; but it varies in diffe-i rent cases in given proportions of this oxide , and the limpid fluid .
In general , if not always , a given quantity of pts contains a smaller proportion of saline matters than an equal given quantity of expectorated mucous matter , but a given quantity Qf the limpid coagulable fluid contains a greater proportion of saline matters than an equal given quantity of serum of blood .
tlence the thicker the pus the less irritation to the sore which.ecretes it , and commonly the less the inflammatory or other.310 I action of the secreting surface .
In different cases , however , the proportion of impregnating saline substances to one another is liable to vary , especially that of phosphate of lime ; hence , though rarely , calculi occur of this substance in the cavity of the abscess , * Hence too the exsiccated pus is liable to become soft and moist , from the proportion of neutralized potash being greater than usual ; and even deliquescence sometimes occurs of the exsiccated limpid fluid .
12 .
That the same organs , according to their different states , secrete from the blood merely water impregnated with the saline substances of the serum of blood ; also this fluid containing various proportions of coagulable matter like that of serum of blood ; and serous fluid with self-coagulable lymph , which affords curdy masses : likewise this serous fluid , together with this matter which coagulates of itself after secretion , highly impregnated with invisibly small particles , in such a state of aggregation , as to constitute the thick opaque fluid called pus-which states of the secretory organs are generally attended with inflammatory action , but frequently also without any symptoms of such action .
13 .
That besides the consistence of pus depending upon the proportion of serous limpid liquid , and opaque matter , it also probably depends upon the mode and state of coagulation of the matter which affords this opaque part ; analogously to the different states of consistence of the coagulated blood ; On examining the lungs of a patient who died of pulmonary consumption , con .
cretions were found in a large vomica from the size of mustard seed to a pepper corn , which Dr. E. N. BANCROFT reserved for imy enquiry .
I found hey consisted chiefly of phosphate of lime with an unusually small proportion of animal matter .
In another patient of Dr. NEVINSON , matter was coughed up , consisting chiefly of phosphate of lime and animal matter , nearly one of the former to three of the latter .
itself , according to the different conditions of the animal oeco1norny .
According to the above inferences , I trust , a distinct acnd definite notion of the substance to be considered as pus is exhibited ; and I do not comment on the different results of experiments and conclusions of other wsriters , because future observers only can determine the truth .
What is and what is not pus will now readily be ascertai:ted by a , few easy experiments ; by the obvious properties ; and by the consideration'of the source of the matter in question : provided , however , that it be unmixed with certain other matters by which disguise is produced .
As already observed it is in .
pulmonic diseases that t.te ambiguity occurs ; and physicians lay very considerable stress upon the nature of expectorated matter in their practice and reasoning ; I shall tlerefore endeavourr to elucidate the subject by remarks Ion the puriform matte : expectoratedin different cases .
1 .
An abscess occasioned by acute inflammation not only of a pleurisy , and peripneuimony , but of other diseases which have not the symptoms of any one which has received a designation .
Here there ought to be no doubt ; for the mratter which is coughed up suddenly and abundantly on the bursting of the abscess is evidently pus with little mucus .
Such matter consists of the essential ingredients of pus , ( Sect. VII .
i , ) with generally the adventitous substances , ( Sect. VII .
2 , 3 , 4 , ) viL ; coagulated lymph , membranous or fibrous parts , and a small proportion of the red part of blood .
2 .
Purulent expectoration from the rupture of abscesses , or vomicae of suppurated tubercles .
In such cases there has beens a chronical cough with viscid sputum , commonly in persons o , an advanced age .
After this long continued disease , an abundant expectoration of quite a difierent kind from the former suddenly comes on ; by which the patient often dies very speedily ; .
sometimes immediately , being seemingly choaked .
This kind pf matter evidenty consists chiefly of the essential ingredients of pus ( Sect. VIi .
1 , ) with not only the adventitious substances , um .t clots of self-coagulated lymph , and sometimes the red part of blood , but also masses , which are apparently the ' broken down solid parts , the cellular membrane , the vessels , and substance of the tubercles , in a-disorganized state .
The sufferer often says , such matter tastes sweet .
The mucus is here in too small a proportion , and not intimately mixed , toy occasion disguise.o g. In the bronchitis , or inflammatory affection of the air tubes , the membrane remaining entire , attending various diseases , e. .
the measles , a fever with a coid , various continued fevers , an expectoration of thin cream-like matter occurs , at first gradually , bu at last in great quantities , continuing for a week or more .
Although mucus is usually couLghied up with this ptriform substance , the two things generally remain in n distinctly large masses .
With little skill , the opaque or puriform fluid may be collected separately from the mucous matter .
It will be found to consist almost purely of the three essential constituents of pus ( Sect. VII .
i , ) there being seldon lany adventitious substances .
4 .
MuIco-purulent , or cormmixed expectorated matter .
This kind is perhaps of the most frequent occurrence .
It is that .
which many physicians know not how to designate , some consider it to be pus , and others to be mucous matter .
This contrariety of opinion arises from the want of definite notions of $ pus and mucus .
Hence the parties are not able to perceive that in this kind of sputum , exist many of the properties of pus , and also of mucus .
I have described it in my former paper on expectorated matter , Phil. Trans. 1809 , P. II .
p. 317 , under the denomination of opaque ropy matter , the third kind .
I feel no degradation in finding it necessary to confess , that a better acquaintance with the properties of pus , has taught me that I was in an error , in considering this kind of expectorated matter to differ from other sorts , merely in the proportion , and not in the kinds of constituent parts .
It now appears , that the sputum in question possesses such properties as might be predicted to exist , from the known properties of pus and mucus separately , in case these two substances should be intimately commixed .
Accordingly , the opacity ; the straw colour ; the greater density than mucus ; the great globularity under the microscope ; the greater proportion of residue on evaporation to dryness , than from mucus ; the milky liquid on heating this matter ; the milkiness on agitation in cold water ; are properties of pus .
But the great viscidity , yet nr:t increased by neutral salts ; the less opacity than pus ; the less globularity than pus ; the smaller proportion of exsiccated residue than from pus ; the moisture , or greater moisture on the exposure of the brittle residue to air , than from that of pus ; the more difficult difiusibility through cold water , and less degree of milkiness than from pus : the great proportion of leafy or fibrous masses on agitation in a very large quantity of cold water ; the speedy putrescency ; are properties of mucus .
The mode of coagulation by caloric at 160 ?
and upwards , is such as might be expected from the commixture , viz. in large masses of curd in a milky liquid , instead of into one uniformw 1g mass like pus , or into small curdy masses in a very large proportion of whey coloured liquid , like mucous sputum .
Thick pus affords on evaporation to brittleness , or 8 residue ; and transparent sputum of the consistence of jelly , gives about -T or -o of such residue ; but this opaque matter under inquiry , affords io to 4fof brittle residue , according to the proportion of the two substances .
I could not separate the supposed pus and mucus from one another , to exhibit them distinctly by water , or by any other means , on account , as I conceive , of the intimate diffusion through one another , and their mutual cohesion .
But on evaporating the milky water , produced by agitating this sputum in it , or by letting it stand to collect the sediment , little else beside a mere congeries of globules seen under the microscope , was thus obtained .
For the same reason , on standing , a serous liquid like that of pus ( Sect. VII .
i ) does not separate , or only partially , from the opaque part , sa as to render it possible by ablution , to collect this coagulable liquid like that of pus : and the greater proportion of water , belonging to the mucus , occasions the coagulation by caloric , to afford only a milky liquid , instead of an uniform mass of curd .
This kind of sputum , consistently with the phenomena , must be produced by secretion from the bronchial membrane in its entire state , and not by ulceration or abscess .
For it is secreted in many cases , at the rate of a pint or more in each 24 hours , for weeks and months successively , and for 20 or more successive winters .
Also many persoins recover their good health after this secretion , and it is the usual termination favourably of pneumonia , bronchitis , &amp;c. It is produced by any disease of great irritation of the lungs ; as I have found from ossification of the bronchial or pulmonary are teries ; from calculi ; from broken wind , or rupture of air cells , &amp;c. * It is secreted also in consequence of irritation of the bronchial membrane by tubercles , vomicm , water in the cavities of the chest , &amp;c. The same kind of matter is secreted from the nose on the decline of a common severe coryza in many cases .
It appears then , that this kind of matter is a symptom of the most fatal , as well as harmaless diseases-it is a symptom ill one case , of the progress of disease to death , aid in another , of the termination in health , by being seemiingly a critical discharge .
Perhaps , if these facts had been observed and considered , numerous mistakes in prognostics , would have been avoided , and better practice have been employed ; because the nature of diseases would have been rightly understood .
From this representation , it is plain , that a just opinion cannot be given merely from the examination of the sputum , without considering the disease by which it is produced , or of which it is a symptom .
The proportion must also be considered of the pus and mucus in sputum : it may be estimated , by attending to the properties of each , as above stated .
Such a compound as the present , scarcely is produced in any other part , but in the bronchial , and mucous menmbrane of the nose , because of the abundant secretion of mucus from these membranes .
And when it is conceived , that both pus and mucus are secreted in a limpid state , from the same or at least contiguous organs , where they first intimately conmmix , and then become inspissated ; it will appear reasonable , that they ?
I believe this state of the lungs to have been first ascertained in broken-winded borses , by Mr. COLMAN .
316 cannot be readily , or at all completely separated again from one another .
There is indeed , in these cases , no necessity for the admission of the secretion of the limpid fluid of pus of abscesses ( Sect. VII .
i ) ; for it appears to me not unjust to consider mucus to be nothing more than the serum of blood , altered in its composition and proportion of water , so as to produce a viscid texture .
The secretory organs of the mucous membrane , by virtue of their peculiar power , separate from the blood , in health , the mucus as above said , with some globules , and also a small proportion of the self-coagulable lymph ; which appears , on agitating mucus in a large proportion of cold water , in the form of leafy and fibrous masses.* The same secretory organs , it is easily conceivable , may in a diseased state , be excited to separate also self-coagulable matter from the blood , with more globules , in such a state as to become pus .
Hence , such a commixture of the two substances must correspond to the opaque , viscid , expectorated sputum , of which I am writing .
If I thought farther reasoning proper , it would be manifest , that all the phenomena , both in health and disease , belonging to the various kinds of sputum , consist with the theory above -delivered .

