?
1883.1 On a Uniform Rotation , Sfc .
445 cannot be kept alive as long as when defibrinated dog 's blood is em-r\gt ; loved .
( 4 ) that no matter how long an experiment lasts the defabn-nated blood , circulated again and again through heart and lungs , shows no tendency to clot ; hence fibrinogen is not produced in those OT ?
he 'question answered by the first of the above results was the one for whose solution the research was undertaken .
The experiments show that , in spite of its highly developed extrinsic nervous apparatuses the heart of the mammal does , so far as its rhythm is concerned , in its own nervo-muscular tissues , respond to temperature variations within wide limits ( 42'-27 ' 0 .
) , just as the frog 's heart or that of the embryo chick does .
To account for the quick pulse of fever we , therefore , need not look beyond the mammalian heart itself ; we require no theoretical assumption of any paralysis of inhibitory , or any excitation of accelerator cardio- extrinsic nerve-centres .
January 18,1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Paper on a Uniform Rotation Machine ; and on the Theory of Electromagnetic Tuning Forks .
Die R. .
H. M. Bosanquet , St. John 's College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor H. J. S. SMITH , F.R.S. Beceived December 20 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The primary object of the machine is the construction of standard notes .
It admits also of the accurate determination of tuning forks , \amp ; c. , having pitch near that of any standard note of the machine , besides 0t The machine consists of a three-crank axle with a fly-wheel .
The cranks are acted on by electro-pneumatic levers , the valves of which control the wind supply as the slide-valve of a steam engine does the steam .
Two of these are acted on by a commutator on the axis ; the third is connected with a clock which closes the circuit at every second .
The effect of this is to govern the machine , so .
that it will On a Uniform Rotation , Sfc .
[ Jan. 1$ revolve once per second under wide variations of the driving power The fly-wheel originally consisted of , and now carries , brass disks two feet in diameter , having various numbers of slits cut in them spokewise .
Those disks which have been made represent pitches of tenor C , covering the whole range in practical or theoretical use .
Tuning forks having any multiple or submultiple of the frequency of the disk employed , present , when examined against an illuminated background behind the disk , toothed patterns which remain stationary .
If the fork is a little sharp the pattern moves in the opposite direction to the slits , if flat in the same direction .
When the machine oscillates about its mean velocity , a fork in tune with the machine presents a pattern which swings backwards and forwards , While the machine was yet in an early and imperfect state , it was demonstrated that large tuning forks , when excited electrically with a mercury contact , vary their frequency by change of level of the mercury , within limits which may readily amount to 1 in 200 .
A device due to Lord Rayleigh was employed with the object of extinguishing the oscillations .
A ring of metal tubing was filled with water , and mounted as a rim on the disk .
But this had practically no effect .
An extensive series of experiments was then undertaken , in which large quantities of tubing filled with water were employed .
Some slight effect was ultimately obtained , but nothing useful .
The end desired was attained with mercury in india-rubber tubes .
The damping does not as yet amount to a dead beat action , and it is hoped that it may be improved .
The damping at present obtainable under practical conditions is reduction of swing to 2 in 10s .
With the machine thus improved , observations have been made of the variations of pitch of a middle C fork , with an electric spring contact , under varying tension .
The changes which occur appear to be less than in the case of the mercury contact .
The experiments that have been made on electromagnetic tuning forks lead to an outline of the theory of the motion in this case , which appears to depend on the time of magnetization of the magnetic system .
Although studies have been made on this subject , there is nothing in the shape of a theory depending on absolute measure for guidance in arranging and interpreting experiments .
Such a theory is here outlined , and compared with experiment .
The theory depends on the assumption that the systems dealt with are closed magnetic circuits with small breaks , or cores of solenoids not projecting far from the coils .
Under certain limitations the resistance of the magnetized iron can be neglected in comparison with that of the air spaces traversed , according to the values of the permeability of iron furnished by Rowland 's experiments .
18S3 .
] On the Skeleton of the M Fishes .
The permeability of the system is then deduced from the comparison 0f resistances in the air space of the core of the solenoid , and in the air spaces which form the breaks in the magnetic circuit .
The coefficient of electromagnetic momentum is then , by means of known equivalents , expressed in terms of the permeability of the system , and thence , according to the above result , in terms of the configuration of the breaks in the magnetic circuit .
A method is then developed of calculating the coefficient of electromagnetic momentum from the observed mean current during the excitation of a tuning fork of known period .
A , .
, Four experiments of this description were made , and the value ot the terms depending on the configuration of the air spaces analysed and interpreted in connexion with the numerical results thus obtained .
In this manner I was led to distinguish two theoretical cases which were connected by an empirical configuration formula , bridging over the gap between them .
The experiments in question agree with the configuration formula to a degree far beyond what could have been anticipated , considering the roughness of the methods employed for the determination of the several elements concerned .
The result is , that in a certain class of electromagnetic systems , when the configuration is given , the permeability and coefficient of electromagnetic momentum can be approximately assigned , and the whole electromagnetic behaviour of the system approximately calcuWith this theory at my disposal I hope to make further contributions to the knowledge of electromagnetic tuning forks .
II " On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes .
Part II .
The Lamprey .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 10 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In working out this type I have been greatly indebted to the labours of J. Muller , Huxley , Schneider , Balfour , and Scott .
For materials I am indebted to two of the above-mentioned anatomists , namely .
Professor Huxley and the late Professor Balfour , also to Surgeon-Major Francis Day , of Cheltenham , and Osbert Salvm , ^The^transformed skeleton is described in various young individuals of the Sea Lamprey ( Petromyzon ma ) , from four to eight or nine inches in length .
The smallest of these was scarcely through its metamorphosis .
A specimen of P. planesi was worked out at the same

