418 Sir W. Thomson* [ Apr. 9 , S 30 ( with sin iOand cos i0instead of spherical harmonics ) .
Bat it deserves more complete synthetic investigation , not limited by the approximational conditions of SS 21 , 22 , if for no other reason because of Hertz 's mouse-mill .
This must , however , be reserved for a future communication .
Meantime , it is worth saying that sudden variations of electric current , or alternating electric currents , distri bute themselves between different straight parallel conductors in tfce same proportion as static electrification is distributed in corresponding electrostatic arrangements , whenever the suddenness , or the frequency , is sufficient to cause the impedance by mutual induction of the separate parallel conductors ( and therefore , a fortiori the impedance by self-induction of each ) to be very large in comparison with ohmic resistance .
Hence Hertz 's mouse-mill screening follows ( though by utterly different physical action ) , simply the electrostatic law , except in any case in which his wave-length is less than a considerable multiple of the diameter of his mouse-mill .
II .
" On Variational Electric and Magnetic Screening .
" By Sir W. Thomson , P.R.S. Received April 1 , 1891 .
1 .
A screen of imperfectly conducting material is as thorough in its action , when time enough is allowed it , as is a similar screen of metal .
But if it be tried against rapidly varying .
electrostatic force , its action lags .
On account of this lagging , it is easily seen that the screening effect against periodic variations of electrostatic force will be less and less , the greater the frequency of the variation .
This is readily illustrated by means of various forms of idiostatic electrometers .
Thus , for example , a piece of paper supported on metal in metallic communication with the movable disc of an attracted disc electrometer annuls the attraction ( or renders it quite insensible ) a few seconds of time after a difference of potential is established and kept constant between the attracted disc and the opposed metal plate , if the paper and the air surrounding it are in the ordinary hygro-metric condition of our climates .
But if the instrument is applied to measure a rapidly alternating difference of potential , with equal differences on the two sides of zero , it gives very little less than the same average force as that found when the paper is removed and all other circumstances kept the same .
Probably , with ordinary clean white paper in ordinary hygrometric conditions , a frequency of alternation of from 50 to 100 per second will more than suffice to render the screening influence of the paper insensible .
And a much less frequency will suffice if the atmosphere surrounding the paper is artificially u \#166 ; t0 a fre\lt ; luency of millions per second , we may safely say that , the greater the frequency , the more perfect is the annulment of 1891 .
] On Variational Electric and Magnetic Screening .
1 screening by the paper ; and this statement holds also if the paper be thoroughly blackened on both sides with ink , although possibly in this condition a greater frequency than 50 to 100 per second might be required for practical annulment of the screening .
2 .
Now , suppose , instead of attractive force between two bodies separated by the screen , as our test of electrification , that we have as test a faint spark , after the manner of Hertz .
Let two well insulated metal balls , A , B , be placed very nearly in contact , and two much larger balls , E , F , placed beside them , with the shortest distance between E , F sufficient to prevent sparking , and with the lines joining the centres of the two pairs parallel .
Let a rapidly alternating difference of potential be produced between E and F , varying , not abruptly , but according , we may suppose , to the simple harmonic law .
Two sparks in every period will be observed between A and B. The interposition of a large paper screen between E , F , on one side , and A , B , on the other , in ordinary hygrometric conditions , will absolutely stop these sparks , if the frequency be less than , perhaps , 4 or 5 per second .
With a frequency of 50 or more , a clean white paper screen will make no perceptible difference .
If the paper be thoroughly blackened with ink on both sides , a frequency of something more than 50 per second may be necessary ; but some moderate frequency of a few hundreds per second will , no doubt , suffice to practically annul the effect of the interposition of the screen .
With frequencies up to 1000 million per second , as in some of Hertz 's experiments , screens such as our blackened paper are still perfectly transparent , but if we raise the frequency to '00 million million , the influence to be transmitted is light , and the blackened paper becomes an almost perfect screen .
3 .
Screening against a varying magnetic force follows an opposite law to screening against varying electrostatic force .
For the present , 1 pass over the case of iron and other bodies possessing magnetic susceptibility , and consider only materials devoid of magnetic susceptibility , but possessing more or less of electric conductivity .
owever perfect the electric conductivity of the screen may be , it as no screening efficiency against a steady magnetic force .
But if le Magnetic force varies , currents are induced in the material of the screen which tend to diminish the magnetic force in the air on the ^te side from the varying magnet .
For simplicity , we shall Oppose the variations to follow the simple harmonic law .
The the electric conductivity of the material the greater is the Cpceuing effect for the same frequency of alternation ; and , the the frequency , the greater is the screening effect for the same " 11 al. If the screen be of copper , of specific resistance 1640 Wth*** ^\gt ; er Beeond ( or electric diffusivity 130 sq .
cm .
per second ) , and frequency 80 per second , what I have called the " mhoic effective Sir W. Thomson .
[ Apr. 9 , thickness is 0'71 of a cm .
; and the range of current intensity at depth nx 0*71 cm .
from the surface of the screen next the excitin magnet is e~n of its value at the surface .
Thus ( as e3 = 20'09 ) the range of current-intensity at depth 2'13 Cm is aV of its surface value .
Hence we may expect that a sufficiently large plate of copper of cm .
thick will he a little less than perfect in its screening action against an alternating magnetic force of frequency 80 per second .
4 .
Lord Rayleigh , in his " Acoustical Observations " ( ' Phil. Mag. * 1882 , first half-year ) , after referring to Maxwell 's statement , that a perfectly conducting sheet acts as a barrier to magnetic force ( ' Elec-tricity and Magnetism , ' S 665 ) , describes an experiment in which the interposition of a large and stout plate of copper between two coils renders inaudible a sound which , without the copper screen , is heard by a telephone in circuit with one of the coils excited by electromagnetic induction from the other coil , in which an intermittent current , with sudden , sharp variations of strength , is produced by a " microphone clock " and a voltaic battery .
Larmor , in his paper on " Electromagnetic Induction in Conducting Sheets and Solid Bodies " ( 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1884 , first half-year ) , makes the following very interesting statement:\#151 ; " If we have a sheet of conducting matter in the neighbourhood of a magnetic system , the effect of a disturbance of that system will be to induce currents in the sheet of such kind as will tend to prevent any change in the conformation of the tubes [ lines ] of force cutting through the sheet .
This follows from Lenz s law , which itself has been shown by Helmholtz and Thomson to be a direct consequence of the conservation of energy .
But if the arrangement of the tubes [ lines of force ] in the conductor is unaltered , the field on the other side of the conductor into which they pass ( supposed isolated from the outside spaces by the conductor ) will be unaltered .
Hence , if the disturbance is of an alternating character , with a period small enough to make it go through a cycle of changes before the currents decay sensibly , we shall have the conductor acting as a screen .
" Further , we shall also find , on the same principle , that a rapidly rotating conducting sheet screens the space inside it from all magnetic action which is not symmetrical round the axis of rotation .
" Mr. Willoughby Smith 's experiments on " " Volta-electric indue- I tion , " which he described in his inaugural address to the Society of j Telegraph Engineers of November , 1883 , afforded good illustrations j of this kind of action with copper , zinc , tin , and lead , screens , and j with different degrees of frequency of alternation .
His results with j iron are also very interesting : they showed , as might be expected , com- j paratively little augmentation of screening effect with augmentation 4 * * Collected Papers , ' vol. 3 , Art .
cii , S 35 .
1891-1 On Variational Electric and Magnetic Screening .
421 of frequency .
This is just what is to be expected from the fact that a broad enough and long enough iron plate exercises a large magnetostatic screening influence ; which , with a thick enough plate , will be so nearly complete that comparatively little is left for augmentation of the screening influence by alternations of greater and greater frequency .
5 .
A copper shell closed around an alternating magnet produces a screening effect which on the principle of S 3 we may reckon to be little short of perfection if the thickness be 2| cm .
or more , and the frequency of alternation 80 per second .
6 .
Suppose now the alternation of the magnetic force to be produced by the rotation of a magnet M about any axis .
First , to find the efEect of the rotation , imagine the magnet to be represented by ideal magnetic matter .
Let ( after the manner of Gauss in his treatment of the secular perturbations of the solar system ) the ideal magnetic matter be uniformly distributed over the circles described by its different points .
For brevity call I the ideal magnet symmetrical round the axis , which is thus constituted .
The magnetic force throughout the space around the rotating magnet will be the same as that due to I , compounded with an alternating- force of which the component at any point in the direction of any fixed line varies from zero in the two opposite directions in each period of the rotation .
If the copper shell is thick enough , and the angular velocity of the rotation great enough , the alternating component is almost annulled for external space , and only the steady force due to I is allowed to act in the space outside the copper shell .
7 .
Consider now , in the space outside the copper shell , a point P rotating with the magnet M. It will experience a force simply equal to that due to M when there is no rotation , and , when M and P rotate together , P will experience a force gradually altering as the speed of rotation increases , until , when the speed becomes sufficiently Sreat , it becomes sensibly the same as the force due to the symmetrical magnet I. Now superimpose upon the whole system of the magnet , and the point P , and the copper shell , a rotation equal and opposite to that of M and P. The statement just made with refer- \#174 ; O0 to the magnetic force at P remains unaltered , and we have now ^ xed magnet M and a point P at rest , with reference to it , while copper shell rotates round the axis around which we first sup-Posed M to rotate .
* ^ Piffle piece of apparatus , constructed to illustrate the result ^Perimentally , is submitted to the Royal Society and shown in action , ite t 6 C'PPer \#174 ; k6ll is a cylindric drum , 1'25 cm .
thick , closed at ends with circular discs 1 cm .
thick .
The magnet is sup-a 6 f 0n *nrier end of a stiff wire passing through the centre of Pc orated fixed shaft which passes through a hole in one end of Y0L* XL*x .
2 F Sir W. Thomson .
CApr .
9 , the drum , and serves as one of the bearings ; the other bearing i8 a rotating pivot fixed to the outside of the other end of the drum .
The accompanying sections , drawn to a scale of three-fourths full size , explain the arrangement sufficiently .
A magnetic needle outside , deflected by the fixed magnet when the drum is at rest , shows a great diminution of the deflection when the drum is set to rotate .
1891 .
] On Variational Electric and Magnetic Screening .
423 If the ( triple compound ) magnet inside is reversed , by means of the central wire and cross bar outside , shown in the diagram , the magnetometer outside is greatly affected while the copper shell is at rest ; but scarcely affected perceptibly while the copper shell is rotating rapidly .
9 .
When the copper shell is a figure of revolution , the magnetic force at any point of the space outside or inside is steady , whatever be the speed of rotation ; but if the shell be not a figure of revolution , the steady force in the external space observable when the shell is at rest becomes the resultant of the force due to a fixed maomet o intermediate between M and I compounded with an alternating force with amplitude of alternation increasing to a maximum , and ultimately diminishing to zero , as the angular velocity is increased without limit .
10 .
If M be symmetrical , with reference to its northern and southern polarity , on the two sides of a plane through the axis of rotation , I becomes a null magnet , the ideal magnetic matter in every circle of which it is constituted being annulled by equal quantities of positive and negative magnetic matter being laid on it .
Thus , when the rotation is sufficiently rapid , the magnetic force is annulled throughout the space external to the shell .
The transition from the steady force of M to the final annulment of force , when the copper shell is symmetrical round its axis of rotation , is , through a steadily diminishing force , without alternations .
When the shell is not symmetrical round its axis of rotation , the transition to zero is accompanied with alternations as described in S 8 .
11 .
When M is not symmetrical on the two sides of a plane through the axis of rotation , I is not null ; and the condition approximated to through external space with increasing speed of rotation is the force Ue to I , which is an ideal magnet symmetrical round the axis of rotation .
12 .
A very interesting simple experimental illustration of screening against magnetic force may be shown by a rotating disc with a fixed Magnet held close to it on one side .
A bar magnet held with its Magnetic axis bisected perpendicularly by a plane through the axis o rotation would , by sufficiently rapid rotation , have its magnetic orce almost perfectly annulled at points in the air as near as may 6 to it , on the other side of the disc , if the diameter of the disc ^ceeds considerably the length of the magnet .
The magnetic force 111 e air close to the disc , on the side next to the magnet , will be \#174 ; v8Tywhere parallel to the surface of the disc .
2 f 2

