229 On the Rhythmic Contractility of the Spleen .
Carulla ( J. F. P. ) [ Address to the Nottingham Section of the Society of Chemical Industry .
] 8vo .
London 1895 .
The Author .
Cauchy ( A. ) CEuvres Completes .
Tome X. 4to .
Paris 1895 .
Ministry of Public Instruction , Paris .
Galilei ( Galileo ) Opere : Edizione Nazionale .
Yol .
Y. 4to .
Firenze 1895 .
Ministry of Public Instruction , Rome .
Hale ( H. ) An Iroquois Condoling Council : a Study of Aboriginal American Society and Government .
8vo .
[ ] 1895 .
The Author .
Roscoe ( Sir H. E. ) , F.R.S. , and Harden ( A. ) A New Yiew of the Origin of Dalton 's Atomic Theory : a Contribution to Chemical History .
8vo .
London 1896 .
The Authors .
Springthorpe ( J. W. ) The Teaching of Science in Matters of Health .
8vo .
[ Brishane~\ 1895 .
The Author .
January 30 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Rhythmic Contractility of the Spleen .
Preliminary Notice .
" fey E. A. Sohafer , F.R.S. , and B. Moore .
Received January 10 , 1896 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) The authors have investigated the rhythmic contractility of the spleen , which was discovered by Roy ( . .
, vol. 3 ) , and the influence of nerves , drugs , and animal extracts upon it .
For this purpose the changes in its volume have been studied by aid of a specially constructed plethysmograph , so arranged as to afford the least possible obstruction to the blood-vessels entering and leaving the hilum .
Under these circumstances , the spleen exhibits evidence of responding immediately by alterations in volume to every alteration in blood pressure , respiratory and cardiac , and a fortiori to such ' greater changes as are produced by compression of the aorta ( contrary to Roy ) .
This is even manifest when the organ is left connected with the rest of the vascular system by one artery and vein only .
1 he On the Rhythmic Contractility of the Spleen .
[ Jan. 30 , conclusion which Roy arrived at , that the spleen is practically cut off from the arterial system , and that its circulation is maintained by its own contractions , is thus shown to be incorrect .
The rhythmic contractions are independent of the central nervons system , for they will proceed after all the nerves passing to the organ are severed , and they can also be shown in an excised spleen perfused with defibrinated arterial blood .
They are excited to increased activity by intravenous injection of certain drugs and animal extracts which act specifically upon the organ .
Prominent amongst these are curare , water extract of suprarenal , and water extract of brain .
Suprarenal extract causes an enormous contraction , followed by increased extent of rhythmic waves ; curare and brain extract , mainly the latter , without a preliminary contraction .
Indifferent fluids , such as normal salt solution , produce in moderate quantity no such effects ( contrary to Roy ) , and the same is the case with many animal extracts .
As was shown J\gt ; y Roy , a condition of dyspnoea causes marked contraction of the spleen .
The authors show that this contraction is of central origin , for after severance of all nerves to the organ it is replaced by a passive dilatation , due to the rise of general blood pressure , this being soon followed by an increase in extent of the rhy thmic contractions .
Temporary cessation of the blood flow through the organ also has the effect of increasing their extent , probably because the splenic tissue is thereby deprived of oxygen and rendered temporarily more excitable .
The splanchnics , both right and left , contain not only nerve fibres which produce contraction of the spleen ( Tarchanoff , Pfluger 's , vol. 8 ; Roy , loc.cit .
' ) , but also others which cause dilatation of the organ .
There is no evidence that the vagi contain any centrifugal fibres which influence the volume of the spleen ( contrary to Roy ) .
Provided their inhibitory action upon the heart is neutralised by atropine , even the strongest stimulation of the peripheral end of either cut vagus produces no direct effect upon the spleen .
Stimulation of any of the nerve-twigs which accompany the arterial branches to the spleen causes strong contraction of the whole organ .
The contractions which result from splanchnic stimulation are also obtained even when there is only a minute twig left , all other nerves being severed .
There is , therefore , probably a very free nervous communication within the organ .
Evidence has been obtained of the existence of numerous afferent ( sensory ) fibres in the nerves supplying the spleen .

