70 Dr* B. W. Richardson on the [ May 15 , hearing on the right side up to 110 ' , from destruction of the tympanum , an instant gain down to 60 ' , a gain of 50 ' on the audiometric scale .
In this preliminary report I have omitted many subjects of interest , but I hope I have related enough to show that the world of science in general , and the world of medicine in particular , is under a deep debt of gratitude to Professor Hughes for his simple and beautiful instrument , which I have christened the audimeter , or less correctly but more euphoniously , the audiometer .
V. " Note on the Invention of a Method for making the Movements of the Pulse Audible by the Telephone .
The Sphygmophone .
" By Benjamin Ward Richardson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 14 , 1879 .
While experimenting with the audiometer , it occurred to me that I might get a secondary or telephonic sound from the movements of the pulse at the wrist .
I have effected this in a very simple manner , by adding a microphone to a Pond 's sphygmograph .
I mount on a slip of talc , glass , wood , or ebonite a plate of metal or gas carbon .
I place the slip in the sphygmograph as if about to take a tracing of the pulse .
I connect one terminal from a Leclanche 's cell to the metal or carbon , and the second terminal from the cell to a terminal of the telephone .
Then I connect the other terminal of the telephone with the metal rod of the sphygmograph .
The instrument is now ready for use .
It is placed on the pulse , in the ordinary way , and is adjusted , with the writing needle thrown back , until a good pulsating movement of the needle is secured .
When the movement is in full action , the needle is thrown over to touch the platinum plate , which it traverses with each pulse-movement , and completes the connexion between the 'telephone and the battery .
The needle , in passing over the metal or carbon plate , causes a distinct series of sounds from the telephone , which correspond with the movements of the pulse .
When all is neatly adjusted , the sounds heard are three in number , one long sound and two short , corresponding to the systolic push , the arterial recoil , and the valvular check .
The sounds are singular , as resembling the two words , " bother it .
" The sounds can be made very loud by increasing the battery power .
This little instrument is not so good a recorder of the pulse as the sphygmograph , but it may be made very useful in class , for illustrating to a large number of students , at one time , the movements of the natural pulse , and the variations which occur in disease .
I call the invention the sphygmophone .

