XXIII .
" On Fermat 's Theorem of the Polygonal Numbers .
" By the Right Hon. Sir FREDERICK POLLOCK , F.R.S. , Lord Chief Baron .
Received June 18 , 1863 .
[ An abstract will be given in a future Number .
] COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED SINCE THE END OF THE SESSION .
I. " On Mauve or Aniline-Purple .
" By W. H. PERKIN , Esq. , F.C.S. Communicated by J. STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received August 19 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) The discovery of this colouring matter in 1856 , and its introduction as a commercial article , have originated that remarkable series of compounds known as Coal-tar colours , which have now become so numerous , and , in consequence of their adaptability to the arts and manufactures , are of such great and increasing importance .
The chemistry of mauve may appear to have been rather neglected , its composition not having been established , although it has formed the subject of several papers by continental chemists .
Its chemical nature also has not been generally understood ; and it is to this fact that many of the discrepancies between the results of the different experimentalists who have worked on this subject are to be attributed .
On adding a solution of hydrate of potassium to a boiling solution of commercial crystallized mauve , it immediately changes in colour from purple to a blue violet , and , on standing , deposits a crystalline body , which , after being washed with alcohol and then with water , presents itself as a nearly black glistening body , not unlike pulverised specular iron ore .
This substance is a base which I propose to call Mauveine ; it 1863 .
] 713 dissolves in alcohol , torming a violet solutionl , which immediately assumes a purple colour on the addition of acids .
It is insoluble , or nearly so , in ether and benzole .
It is also a very stable body , and decomposes ammoniacal salts readily .
When heated strongly it decomposes , yielding a basic oil .
Its analysis has led to the formula C27* 24 N4 .
Hydrochlorate of Mauveine.-This salt is prepared by the direct combination of mauveine with hydrochloric acid .
From its boiling alcoholic solution it is deposited in small prisms , sometimes arranged in tufts , possessing a brilliant green metallic lustre .
It is moderately soluble in alcohol .
Carbon , hydrogen , nitrogen , and chlorine determinations have led to the formula C27 H24 N4 H C1 .
I have endeavoured to obtain a second hydrochlorate , but up to the present have not succeeded .
Platinum-Salt.-Mauveine forms a perfectly definite and beautifully crystalline compound with bichloride of platinum , which , if prepared with warm solutions , separates in the form of crystals of considerable dimensions .
It possesses the green metallic lustre of the hydrochlorate , but on being dried assumes a more golden colour .
It is very sparingly soluble in alcohol .
The analysis of this salt has led to the following formula , C27 t124 N4 , IPt C13 .
Gold-Salt.-This substance separates as a crystalline precipitate , which , when moist , presents a much less brilliant aspect than the platinum derivative ; it is also more soluble in alcohol than that salt , and when recrystallized appears to lose a small quantity of gold .
Its analysis has given numbers agreeing with the formula C27 H N4 , H Au Cl , .
Hydro6bromate of Mauveine.-This salt is prepared in a similar manner to the hydrochlorate , which it very much resembles , except that it is less soluble .
Carbon , hydrogen , and bromine determinations give results agreeing with the formula 27 24 N4 , H Br .
Hydriodate of iMauveine .
In preparing this salt from the base , it is necessary to use hydriodic acid which is colourless , otherwise the free iodine will slowly act upon the new product .
It crystallizes in prisms , having a green metallic lustre .
It is more insoluble than the hydrobromate .
Its analysis has led to the formula C27 H24 N. , HI .
Acetate of Mauveine.-This salt is best obtained by dissolving the base in boiling alcohol and acetic acid .
It is a beautiful salt , crystallizing in prisms possessing the green metallic lustre common to most of the salts of mauveine .
Combinations of this substance gave numbers agreeing with the formula C2 , ,,24 NCH 0 .
24 4 ' 24 2 ' Carbonate of Mauveine.-The tendency of mauveine to combine with carbonic acid is rather remarkable .
If a quantity of its alcoholic solution be thrown up into a tube containing carbonic acid over mercury , the carbonic acid will be quickly absorbed .
To prepare the carbonate , it is necessary to pass carbonic acid gas through boiling alcohol containing a quantity of mauveine in suspension ; it is then filtered quickly , and carbonic acid passed through the filtrate until cold ; on standing , the carbonate will be deposited as prisms having a green metallic lustre .
This salt , on being dried , gradually loses carbonic acid .
From experiments that have been made with this salt , it would appear to have the composition of an acid carbonate , viz. C27 H11 N H , C03 .
In the analysis of salts of mauveine great care has to be taken in drying them thoroughly , as most of them are highly hygroscopic .
I am now engaged with the study of the replaceable hydrogen in mauveine , which I hope will throw some light upon its constitution .
From its formula , I believe it to be a tetramine , although up to the present I have not obtained any definite salts with more than one equivalent of acid .
Mauveine , when heated with aniline , produces a blue colouring matter , which is now under investigation .
A salt of mauveine , when heated alone , also produces a violet or blue compound .
1863 .
] 715

