154 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Preliminary Report to the [ Dec. 15 , from the outside is the same as that produced by such a current approaching it from the inside .
Various other phenomena , such as temporary reversals of the direction of rotation , successive action of the coil and iron tube , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , are recorded in the paper .
With a Selenoid.\#151 ; An axial current flowing upwards from a south to a north seeking pole , produces dextro rotation at the former and laevo rotation at the latter .
With a Tubular h\#163 ; agnet.\#151 ; These two directions are reversed at all distances between the two neutral points near the poles of the magnets , but not beyond .
The phenomena , therefore , of .
rotation are more complex with a tubular magnet than with a selenoid .
The directions of rotation produced by a vertical current outside a vertical coil or magnet are the same as those produced by it inside a coil alone .
The reversals of direction of rotation near the poles , which occur when a tubular magnet is employed , appear to be due to the inner surface of the magnet , and to the position of that surface in relation to the vertical current in the liquid .
The direction of rotation and the points of reversal appear to be all independent of each other .
The action of radial currents is more simple than that of axial ones , especially near the poles of a magnet .
With radial currents , either in the liquid or electrodes , there is no reversal , either at the centre of the magnet or coil , or at the poles or beyond them , or near the outside of the coil or magnet .
The experiments show the entire group of rotations produced inside and outside a vertical coil ( with and without an iron core ) , and near its poles , by radial currents ; also the group of rotations produced by vertical currents inside and outside a vertical coil and near its poles , and also those produced inside and outside and near the poles of a vertical coil with a tubular iron core , by such currents .
The experiments show in a conspicuous manner the difference of property of the interior surface of a hollow magnet and of that of a voltaic selenoid having the same kind of poles at their corresponding ends .
This difference of property is well known , but is illustrated in the paper in a new way experimentally .
III .
" Preliminary Report to the Solar Physics Committee on the Sun-spot Observations made at Kensington .
" By J. N. Lockyer .
Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received November 29 , 1881 .
Since the commencement of the observations , in November , 1879 , of the twelve most widened lines in sun-spots , about 220 observations have 1881 .
] Solar Physics Committee on Sun-Spot Observations .
155 been made ; the maps for the first and second hundred observations have been drawn up and the tabulation of the first hundred completed .
The reductions are being carried on , and I hope shortly to be able to lay a full report upon the 200 observations before the Committee , but desire , in the mean time , to bring the present preliminary one before it The reduction of the first hundred observations , extending from November , 1879 , to September , 1880 , has yielded the following results :\#151 ; .
1 .
An immense variation , from spot to spot , is to be observed between the most widened lines seen in the first hundred observations .
Change of quantity or density will not account for this variation .
To investigate this point I had the individual observations of lines seen in the spectrum of iron plotted out on strips of paper , and I then tried to arrange them in order , but I could not succeed , for even when the observations were divided into six groups about half of them were left outstanding .
2 .
If we consider the lines of any one substance , there is as much inversion between these lines as between the lines of any two metals .
By the term inversion I mean of any three lines A , B , C , that we may get A and B without C , A and C without B , B and C without A , and so on .
3 .
We have reason to believe , from experiments made here , that most of the lines seen in the spectrum of iron volatilised in the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe flame are amongst the most widened lines .
4 .
Certain lines of iron have been seen at rest , while other adjacent lines seen in the spectrum of this metal in the same field of view have shown change of wave-length .
5 .
The spectrum of iron in the solar spectrum is more like that of the arc than that of the spark .
6 .
The greater part of the lines seen in spots and flames are common to two or more substances with the dispersion employed .
7 .
The first hundred spot observations being compared with a hundred observations of the spectra of flames , made by Tacchini at Palermo , have shown that there is no iron line in the region b-F common to spots and prominences .
In addition to these facts , already communicated to the Committee in more or less detail at different times , the following have been noticed in the continuation of the reductions .
8 .
The lines of iron , cobalt , chromium , manganese , titanium , calcium , and nickel seen in the spectra of spots and flames are usually coincident with lines in the spectra of other metals , with the dispersion employed , whilst the lines of tungsten , copper , and zinc seen in spots and storms are not coincident with lines in other spectra .
9 .
The lines of iron , manganese , zinc , and titanium most frequently Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Preliminary Report to the [ Dec. 15 , 1881 .
] Solar Physics Committee on Sun-Spot Observations .
157 seen in spots are different from those most frequently seen in flames , whilst in cobalt , chromium , and calcium the lines seen in spots are the same as those seen in flames . .
, 10 .
Towards the end of the first series a few lines appeared among the most widened ones which are not represented , so far as is known , amono- the lines seen in the spectra of terrestrial elements .
This change took place when there was a marked increase in the solar activity .
So much for the results from the first series of observations .
The second series began on 29th September , 1880 , and comes down to October , 1881 .
From a partial reduction of the observations the following results have been obtained :\#151 ; 11 .
The number of new lines seen amongst the most widened lines has been steadily increasing .
Many of these lines are very faint in the solar spectrum , and are unrecorded by Angstrom , while they are wide and dark in the spot-spectrum .
12 .
In the months of May and June of this year ( 1881 ) , there was a great change in the spectra of the spots , the old lines dying out and new lines appearing .
18 .
When series of observations , consisting of ten consecutive observations of the spectra of spots , taken from the commencement of the first series in November , 1879 , and from the end of it on 27tli September , 1880 , were compared with those made towards the end of the second series on 18th July , 1881 , it was found that the lines widened in each set were markedly distinct from those in the other To illustrate this , I have prepared the diagram opposite .
At the top are some of the principal Fraunhoferic lines in the region F to D , the lengths representing the intensities .
The lower part of the diagram is divided into three sections by strong lines ; the first of these ( 1\#151 ; 10 ) contains the observations made between November 12 , 1879 , and January 20 , 1880 , the second ( 11\#151 ; 20 ) the observations made between September 27 and October 1 , 1880 , and the third those made between July 18 and July 29 , 1881.* * The elates of the observations and the Greenwich numberings are as follows : Uo .
Date .
Greenwich No. 1 ... ... ... November 12 , 1879 2 ... ... .
, , 3 ... ... .
, , 14 , , , 4 ... ... . .
" 27 , " 5 ... ... . .
" 28 , " 6 January - 3 , 1880 158 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Sun-Spot Observations .
[ Dec. 15 , .
14 .
At the commencement of October , 1881 , there was a change in the spectra of the spots similar to that which took place in May and June , but much more abrupt , for only one of the old lines remained .
This is exactly analogous to the variations Tacchini saw in the spectra of the prominences in the region F to b , in December , 1872 .
15 .
In the first series of observations the total number of most widened lines in the region F to b was fifty-seven , forty of whick were due to iron , whilst in the second series the total number of lines-seen was 104 , and the iron lines faded away gradually , the last disappearing on 26th July , 1881 .
16 .
So far as the observations have gone there has been no difference caused by the nearness of the spot to the limb .
17 .
At the present time more than 75 per cent , of the most widened lines are not represented in the spectra of terrestrial elements .
18 .
A line of titanium at wave-length 5865-0 and a line of barium at wave-length 5852'5 are amongst the recent most widened lines .
Both these are long lines in the spectra of these metals .
The line at wave-length 5852-5 has been seen by Young in flames , with su frequency of eight .
No. Date .
Greenwich No. 10 11 12 . .
... 13 ff , , .
* OftO 14 a a . .
' 0/ 7A 15 a \#187 ; .
* Qft/ T 16 a ww\#187 ; 39 .
* \lt ; OftO 17 ... . .
if " V# 99 * .
\lt ; q/ rn 18 if ww| 9f * ; * ' 1 Qf3t7 19 q^q 20 ff a . .
* 1 ) , , * * .
q^7A 21 22 ROI 23 ff if . . .
KOI 24 ff if . . .
KOK 25 Koq 26 ff if . . .
KOO 27 fi ii . . .
KOQ 28 a j ) * . .
KOK 29 ft a . . . . . .
" 28 . . .
30 . . .
ff .
29 , " ...

