'.r o ?
SndAlftharrtia ze^if ZSzrJ^jfferecel , 4-Z r , ~-~2 ?
FCI*_IU ~ ; ~ ; 7a : 'e 4 1-g424 2f ?
c ?
/ff 'fIe e7eio ' I| D/ Catt of ct Selitpe , w ?
i &amp; e '1/ keM:lr t ; e ewipodw X fcll ' , g7/ a 2 .
'Tw .
e ' a !
;-__ _____ _._ I Further particulars of the Fall of the Cold Bokkeveld Meteorolite .
By THOMAS MACLEAR , Esq. F.R.S. *c .
, in a Letter to Sir JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. K.H. V.P.R.S. c. c. Communicated by Sir JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL .
Received February 5 , -Read March 5 , 1840 .
Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , November 20 , 1839 .
MY DEAR SIR JOHN , As I did not receive any further communication relating to the Bokkeveld Meteor after my last communication to you on the subject , I resolved to undertake the proinised journey in conjunction with our friend WATERMEYER , to whom we are so much indebted in the inquiry .
Accordingly we made up a waggon party , consisting of himself and two of his sons , with Lieut. JACOB of the Indian Survey , Mr. BAILEY , iHon , E.I.C.S. , and myself , and set out on the 9th instant , taking Worcester and Tulbagh in our way , for the purpose of consulting with Dr. TREUTER and the Rev. Mr. FAHN , who had been engaged in collecting information .
On the 14th we took horses at Tulbabh , ang d proceeded to the house of PIETER DE TOIT in the Bokkeveld , where we slept .
The next morning we visited the other people who had witnessed the phenomenon .
I enclose two sketches of the Cold Bokkeveld .
No. 1 .
was sent to me by Dr. TREUTER* .
No. 2 .
is a copy of it with some corrections made on inspecting the place .
Therefore the original is of no other use than as a voucher .
The principal alteration refers to the position of VAN HEEREN'S house ( VAN ERDE as written by Dr. TREUTER ) , which is not a joint habitation , but distant some seven miles from BARAND JOOSTEEN'S .
I enclose also two letters received from Dr. TREUTER , wherein he alludes to two explosions , and to two spots only where meteorolites fell , about twenty-five miles from each other .
With regard to the first , no single 'ndividual in the Bokkeveld heard two explosions , but persons beyond fancied they did ; the second most likely was the echo among the mountains .
With regard to two spots only where mneteorolites fell , I may remark that there was no witness in the interval of the line of flight between JOOSTEEN'S and DE TOIrTS habitations ; consequently it is impossible to say what may have fallen .
These re .
marks are made with the view of explaining that which otherwise would appear contradictory to the description I am about to give .
There is also enclosed an interesting affidavit of one of the witnesses .
The Cold Bokkeveld is an irregular valley or basin , bounded by high rugged mountains of sandstone , accessible only by passes of the character of the French HOEK and Sir LowRY'S , but rougher , and in some parts very steep .
The entrance from Tulbagh is magnificent compared with any other place I have seen at the Cape .
Within the basin the ground undulates ; some of the hills are high , and covered with groups of sandstone .
The farms are principally situated at the west side , or near the base of the Schurfde Berg , and are partially screened from each other .
VAN HEEEREN'S is low , BARAND JOOSTEEN'S is on the east side of a hill , about seven miles fi'oin VAN IJEEREN'S , and PIETER DE TOIT'S is about fifteen miles from the latter , according to the map .
These three habitations are completely hidden from each other .
The climate is comparatively cool ; European chlerries grow in the orchards abundantly .
It is not necessary to give the separate conversations in detail held with the inhabitants , for they all agree in the description of the phenomenon .
Their attention was first excited by a violent explosion , followed by a rumbling noise , like the rattle from heavy waggons passing over hard ground .
On looking up they saw a blue stream of smoke , like that proceeding from ignited gunpowder , passing in a direction from south-west to north-east* , viz. from the summit of the Schurfde Berg opposite VAN HEEREN'S towards PIETER DE 'OIT 's .
The noise caused several of the inmates to rush from theilr houses , some of whom obtained a partial glimpse of the phenomenoni .
1st .
At the instant , the son of VAN HEEREN was standing midway between his father 's house and the Schurfde Berg , where he saw something fall to the ground , which he picked up .
His mother saw another plunge into the swampy ground north-east of the house .
This is the specimen of four pounds , the second sent to you .
These two positions may be about a mile from each other , and were pointed out to us by Mrs. VAN HEEREN .
2ndly .
BARAND JOOSTEEN , with two servantst , were near the mountain , viz. the hill E on the map , at the instant of explosion .
They saw something descend to the ground , and where it struck , the grass smoked .
The direction of this spot was pointed out to us by BARAND JOOSTEEN himself , and the specimen is the one I sent to Capt. BEAUFORT by H.M.S. Scout , Capt. CRAIGE .
3rdly .
A servant of PIETER DE TOIT'S was standing near his master 's house ; he saw a substance fall to the ground about a mile below the garden , which he ran towards and brought to his master .
The position of the spot was shown to us by the servant .
I forgot to inquire to whom this specimen was given .
Each of these persons declares that the meteotolites were so hot on approaching them that they could not lay hold of them .
I have thus enumerated all that were seen falling .
The curiosity of the people being excited they made further search .
A mass was discovered on the road to the N.E. of VAN HEEREN'S houise beyond the swampy ground , but firactured , apparently in striking against the hard ground .
BARAND JOOSTEEN found a lump which separated into fragments on taking it up , owing , he thinks , to exposure to moisture .
He had parted with some of it ; the remnainder , weighing nearly four pounds avoirdupois , he kindly presented to us .
PIETER DE TOIT found a quantity in fragments on the road near his house .
Also another at position D , which was given to Mr. FAHN and is the first I sent to you .
His son found a portion at position A. He showed us the places in person .
I am unable to estimate the total weight of the pieces that were found at DE ToIT 's , for he had given them away to applicants .
I understand they were brought to Cape Town , and that Mr. G. THOMPSON sent a piece of one to England .
I consider I am justified in the opinion that but a small proportion of the whole mass has been found , because six persons only chanced to be sufficiently near the track to witness the fall ; two of them within a mile of each other .
These were close together , but six or seven miles from the first , while only one was in the open air at DE TOIT 's , seventeen miles further on , according to the map .
The intervening ground is covered with brushwood and heath , similar to that on the floats about Tiger Berg , excepting a few cultivated patches of small extent .
The people , surprised by the presence of an imposing spectacle , the nature of which they could not well cotuprehend , would naturally follow up alone and without further consideration whatever first caught the eye , and this is supported by the fact of several potrtions being discovered at comparatively short distances from the witnesses , but unseen at the time of explosion .
I may also remark , that beyond DE 'TOIT'S house for a considerable distance in the direction of the line of flight , there is nothing but rugged mountain , without , I believe , inhabitants .
It appears that the portion which sunk in the mroist ground near VAN HEEREN'S is the one which gave rise to the exaggerated statement made to me , " of a piece having made a hole in the ground large enough to admit a table .
" KIEVIET declares in his affidavit , that the piece he picked up was originally seven or eight pounds weight .
The specimien was sent to me by Dr. TRUTER , and I forwarded it to Captain BEAUFORT as I received it .
The weight was rather more than four pounds ; and , so far as I can recollect the shape of the fractured surface , I do not think much had been broken off .
However , I believe this to be the largest specimen yet discovered .
In my first communication to you , I stated that the line of flight was north-westerly which was my impression after the conversation with Mr. MENZIES , who at the time of the explosion was resting at the Blood River , ninety miles N.E. * of the Bokkeveld , in company with Mr. G. THOMPSON .
But the witnesses in the Bokkeveld prove the contrary , which is further confirmed by the following extract from a letter of Mr. G. THOMPSON'S to me .
" The meteor appeared to the best of my judgment to approach from the west with great velocity , and precisely similar to a Congreve rocket of large dimensions .
Tthe plhenomenon expanded nearly overhead , and apparently not more than 3 or 400 feet high , dispersing in large globes the size of forty-two pound shot , of quicksilvery appearance .
These fell for a few seconds towards the earth and vanished .
" The latter part of this paragraph exhibits an optical deception as to distance , if " the separation into globes " was the explosion over the Bokkeveld .
For be it re. .
membered Mr. THOMPSON did not hear any noise , and the stations are separated by at least ninety miles .
If the object he saw was a portion of the meteor moving on beyond the Bokkeveld , most likely the dispersion would have been followed by a report .
The first supposition is probable , and tends to prove that the object was much elevated when it exploded .
Mr. THOMPSON also learned that the explosion was heard within a few miles of Clanwilliam ; on the Zonder-End River , and the Cape Downs !
With reference to the accuracy of the map , I verified the azimuth direction of the line of flight , as it was pointed out to us , with a small azimuth compass .
The distance between DE TOIT'S and the Schurfde Berg did not appear to us twenty-five miles , but on the whole it is sufficiently correct to explain a matter of this kind .
I forgot to mention that the witnesses described the heavens as being perfectly free from clouds and calm at the time .
If you think this communication , with Dr. TREUTER'S letters and KIEVIET'S affidavit , worthy of the attention of the Royal Society , be pleased to place them on the table .
Believe me , dear Sir John , Yours , ever faithfully , THOMAS MACLEAR .
To Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. , 8c .
8c .
8c .
Dr. TREUTER'S Letters to THOMAS MACLEAR , Esq. Worcester , 4th June , 1839 .
MY DEAR SIR , I have great pleasure in acknowledging your letter of the 1st of May last , and feel much obliged for the copy of Sir J. HERSCHEL'S interesting letter .
Although I have been prevented returning you an earlier answer , I have not forgotten the main object of ouir present correspondence , and have already secured abotut four pound in Dutchl weight of the meteorolite , and given directions to obtain all the fragments , which may be in possession of some individuals of this division , which I will give myself the pleasure to forward to you by the first fit opportunity which may offer .
I am also in possession of an affidavit of a person who happened to be quite close to the spot whee the burst took place and the meteorolite fell , and will be able to accompany it with a pretty correct sketch of the direction the meteor took .
From all information I have been able to collect , it appears there are only two spots , distant about twenty-five miles from each other , where an explosion of the meteor occurred with the fall of stones .
I should advise you not to make any public announcement of it in the papers , for the people will fancy that it is of such very gleat value that they may weigh it with gold .
Believe me , my dear Sir , Most truly yours , T. MACLEAR , Esq. J. TREUTER .
Sc. %c .
Ssc .
Worcester , 10th July , 1839 .
MY DEAR SIR , I have much pleasure in availing myself of this opportunity to forward to you herewith the fragments I have been able to collect of the meteorolite .
From all the information I obtained on the subject of the meteor of the 13th of October 1838 , of which the sensation was felt simultaneously over an extent of upwards of 150 miles , it appears that the falling of meteorolites was only observed at two places , distant from each other , as the bird flies , about twenty-five miles ; and that the fall of these meteorolites was accompanied with an explosion resembling the loudest peal of thunder .
The atmosphere was in such an agitation , that the windows of the houses were shaken as from a violent wind , and the noise produced was that of a swift passing waggon heavily laden .
The first conclusion the people drew from it was that of its being a slight shock of an earthquake .
On the spots where the meteor was observed , it appeared to take its course from north-west to south-east , with a loud hissing noise , producing a train of evanescent light .
At the time , the sky was quite clear ; no wind ; the atmosphere sultry .
181 The enclosed sketch of that part of this division where the falling of the meteorolites has been observed , will I trust give you an accurate idea of its course : it appeared to come from over the summits of the Schurfde Berg .
The accidental circumstance of a waggon being near the foot of that mountain , where the meteor passed over the heads of the people employed in collecting a load of fire-wood , has enabled inme to obtain a deposition from one of these persons , which I enclose herewith .
Any fragments which I may be able further to collect I shall forward to you by an early opportunity .
Believe me , my dear Sir , Most truly yours , J. TREUTER .
P.S. The large piece is of the first , the small one of the second explosion.-Vale ' Affidavit .
I , the undersigned KIEVIET , Bastaard Hottentot , makes oath , that about the month of October last year I was in the service of BAREND JOOSTE , of the Field Cornetcy of the First Cold Bokkeveld District of Worcester .
On the morning of the 13th of that month , my master , myself , and another Bastaard Hottentot named JACOB Rooy , proceeded in a waggon to the niountain at the back of my master 's house to fetch wood .
It was a fine clear morning ; there were no clouds in the sky , and there was no wind .
At about nine o'clock A.M. , whilst we were busy loading the waggon with the wood , close to the foot of the mountain , we heard a strange noise in the air resembling the loudest thunder we had ever heard , and on looking up we perceived a stream passing over our heads , issuing a noise which petrified us with terror ; a burst took place close to the waggon , when something fell and a smoke arose from the grass .
My master sent me to look what it was that had fallen , when I found a stone quite warm , so much so that I could not hold it in my hands : I brought it to my master , I do not know what he did with it .
This stone now produced to me is part of the one I took up ; it might have been then about the weight of seven or eight pounds .
Mark of Sworn before me , at Worcester , this 30th day of April 1839 , KIEVIET , J. TREUTER , J As Witnesses , JAMES RATTRAY .
182

