]\gt ; Mr. J. Joly .
" " On the Method of Condensation in Calorimetry By J. JoLy , B.E. , Assistant to the Professor of Civil Engineering , Trimty College , Dublin .
Communicated by Professor FITZGERALD , F.R.S. Received June 28 .
Read November 18 , 188 [ PDATES 6 and 7 .
] Introduction .
This paper is devoted generally to eerimenal verification of a method of condensation applied to the determination of specific heat .
The extension of the method to the calorimetry of latent heat of gasification has been the subject of soms experiments , but the further delay necessary to complete these compels me to defer their consideration .
Similarly its application , theoretically practicable , to the direct determination of the specific heats of gases at constant volume , is not here considered .
In another paper ( p. 250 ) some results hearing on the possible value of the method in physical and in determinative are given .
The method was origina } devised in the hope that it might be of service in this branch of investigation .
On the subject of this paper a couple of brief notices only have up the present been published .
One of these arose out of an informal notice brought before the Royal Dublin Society ; the second from a verbal account laid before the Dublin University Experimental Science Association .
To the acilities extended to me by Prof. Fitzgerald , in the Physical boratoxy of Trinity College , the whole of the experimental verification of the method is due .
I have not attempted to acknowledge anywhere adequately how much is dus to his advice and suggestions .
Theory of the Method .
If grams of a substance at temperature of its surroundings be immersed in an atmosphere of saturated vapour , steam suppose , the temperature of which at the prevailing abmospheric pressure is , the substance experiences a rise temperature of , and absorbs a number of ] ories , WS , where is the specific heat of the body .
Also if is the latent heat of steam at the temperatule , a quantity of steam weighing grams is condensed , so that WS If in this equation be known , the value of may be found by * ' Irish Times , ' February 17 , 1885 .
'Dublin University Review , ' June , 1885 .
On the Method of Condensation in Calorimetr .
353 observation of the remainiug quantities .
The value of has been accurately detel.mined by RegnauIt and recorded for all values of likely to occur .
By similar observatio1ls , knowing may be the unknown quantity sought for by experiment , and determined from the equation .
A substance of known specific heat being in this case immersed in a of unknown latent heat .
It is evident that of the quantities to be measured the measurement of the of alone presents any difficulty .
I have found , however , that is accurately determined by weighing the quantity of vapotlr condensing on the surface of the substance in its nsibion of temperature from to ; and the calorimeters described in this paper are in short contrivances permitting the accurate determination of weight of condensation as it gathers and falls from the surface of a substance suddenly surrounded by an atmosphere of steam .
As the process is one principally of weighing , I have called the apparatus a gravimetric calorimeter .
Up to the present I have only employed the condensation of watervapour in effecting determinations of specific heat gravimetrically .
There are evidently sufficient reasons in favour of its use , chief among these is the accurate knowledge we possess of its latent heat through Regnault 's experiments .
But the ease with which it may be generated , and its chemical inertness when in presence of the materials of the calorimeter , are also important .
The range of temperature too involved is sufficiently considerable , and , for my purpose , allowed of convenient comparison with the data of Regnault and others on specitic heat obtained generally through this same range .
By the use of other vapours reater weights of condensation are obtainable , but this is only of consequence when dealing with very small quantities of matter .
The variations , however , in the upper limit of bemperature thus obtainable might be otherwise important .
Description of a Gravimeiric Calorimeter .
Whatever vapour be used in this method of calorimetry , two chief conditions must be attended to in its employment : ( 1 ) sudden replacement of the .
surrounding the substance by the vapour to be condensed ; ( 2 ) perfect mechanical conditions permitbing the evaluation of the weight condensed while the substance is still surrounded with the vapour .
To effect the first of these conditions we might evidently either introduce the substance quickly into a chamber filled with and supplied with the vapour , or , maintaining the snbstance throughout in one chamber , replace tho air around it by sudden and rapid of the vapour .
In choosing tho last we dispense both with much contrivance and manipulation in the first .
The error of transPlate 6 is from a pho raph of the apparatus .
The imeter consists of a nearly spherical chamber of very thin spun brass , cm .
in diameter , made up of two hemispheres meeting on thin ground fianges .
These hemispheres are carried by standards which slide upon the centre one of three rails forming a light girder* This girder is supported on three feet , and is arranged to stand in one assigned position inside the case of a large physical balance .
I used it for a considerable time exactly in the position of the bridge used for supporting a beaker in taking specific gravities ; that is , spanning one of the pans and passing between its stirrups .
I subsequently found it necessary to remove the pan , substituting a counterpoise .
It will bs nnderstood now that when the standards carrying the hemispheres are slid along the.centrs rail , the sphers can be completed inside ths balance case , and when neeting about the centre of the rail , may bs made to enclose a substance depending from the hook of the balance .
To permit of the substance being weighed while thus enclosed in the spher a notch is provided in the flanges at their top meeting point .
This notch is , for reasons to be explained later , cnt in two little plugs of plaster of Paris , contained in cells provided for them .
The sphere has two openings with short tubulures , one on each hemisphere , horizontal , and opposite one another .
The larger of the two , cm .
diameter , opening to the front of the balance , serves for the admission of steam ; the other , which when in use is prolonged by the addition of a couple of centimetres of rubber tubing , is about 1 cm .
in diameter , and serves for the exit of steam at the rear of the balance .
To secure the more sudden of steam , a movable admission pipe fitbing the front nozzle on a ground joint is provided .
It is carried on a separate standard , also fitting the centre rail , and is connected with a small tin or copper ) by a flexible tube , so that hen it and the rubber tube connexion have been thoroughly heated by the passage of steam , it can be run up on the centre rail meet the nozzle and discharge the steam directly into the sphere .
Over the entire length of the calorimeber extends a rectangular tunnel-shaped covering of mahogany , made in halves , meeting at the centre of the girder , and provided with notches at their meeting faces , also cut in of Paris , to permit the passage of the wire sup* I use a cylindrical copper boiler , 15 cm .
diameter by20 cm .
high .
This , heated by a strong Bunsen burner , evolves steam at the rate , I find , of about gram per second .
As it is important to introduce the steam as quickly as possible , large boiler is advantageous .
On Method of Condensation in Calorimetry .
porting the substance contained within the sphere .
But one-half this covering is shown in the .
It is borne llpon the two outside rails of the girder , which between the rails is filled in with mahogany .
The tunnel serves to isolate the calorimeter completely from the mechanism of the balance , and thus arranged I can detect no errors due to escape of heat .
The apparatus might , however , also be arranged to stand beneath the balance , the balance being on a shelf , and a wire ried down from it to the calorimeter .
The little screws seen at the feet of the standards bear against the upper surface of the rail , enabling the standards to be adjusted for the accurate meeting of the ground joints .
This is effected once for all .
For smooth working the standards are clipped sideways against the rail by spring straps .
Thumbscrews on top of the standards permit axial motion of the scveral parts , the hemispheres to be adjusted for the free passage of the wire .
The steamways are lated from the standards by split rings of hard wood .
Beneath the sphere , and accommodated by a gap in the central rail , a little vessel is placed for catching the water which drips from the sphere during experiment .
The correct position of the girder is secured by means of a plate fixed to the floor of the balance , and provided with recesses to receive the feet of the girder .
The girder is thus placed in position , and be lifted in and oub as required , without necessity of any meant .
The support for carrying the snbstance being experimented on , and the bucket for catching the condensed vapour from it , are shown about full size iu Plate 6 .
It is best to have these made of platinum .
The conical bucket shown to one side of the carrier , and which , when in use , rests on the little claw beneath the ]atter , is of tbin platinum foil .
The resb is of platinum wire .
This slightness and over 1 grams may be placed on the cross \mdash ; and supports the substance so that it is freely exposed to the steam on all sides , while the bucket beneath can be conveniently removed for cleaning and drying .
Buckets made of silver foil quickly tarnisb , owing to impurities iu the steam .
They prove less constant in calorific capacity than those of platinum .
* JTethod of an Experiment .
In exemplification of the manipulation involved in making an experiment , I describe one made on cast zinc .
The piece of zinc is probably nearly pure .
It weigbs grams .
About an hour before we make the experiment it is placed on the carrier , which depends by a fine platinum wire from the hook of the * All the apparatus described in this paper is the orkmanship of Yeates , of Dublin , and leaves nothing to be desired .
shaped covering is placed in position , and the piece of zinc and the carrier counterpoised .
The balance is sensitive to half illigrams .
We assume that the thermometer indicates closely the temperature of the zinc after the lapse of about an hour .
At the end of that time the boiler is heated np , and steam passed briskly through the leading tube to heat it throughout .
This tube is of a length permitting the boiler to be placed at a safe distance from the calorimeter .
The thermotneter , where it projects from the sphere , is now read , in doing which it is necessary to remove the front half of the tunnel for a moment .
The temperature indicated is ( correcbed at Kew ) , the last number by estimation .
The thermometer is now withdrawn and the admission pipe slid quickly along the rail up to the calorimeter , the leading tube being pinched for a moment this brief operation .
Steam is now flowing rapidly into the calorimeter ; in a few seconds it begins to escape at the exit tube to the far side of the balance .
When it is seen to come out freely a valve on the boiler is opened , and so much steam diverted directly into the air that it now issues but slowly from he exit tube of the calorimeter .
The balance being let down on its bearings , weights are added till equilibrium obtains .
If the substance is quite heated weight remains absolutely adequate , if not the weight is again adjusted when no further increase is ) .
After the space of about one minute we find the balance continues to vibrate equably ; we observe it for some five or ten minutes , and see that there is no change in the equable vibrations of the pointer .
We are sure then that the total weight of condensation is obtained .
It is found to be gram .
A thermometer\mdash ; also reading to tenths\mdash ; inserted in a little tubulnre provided for on the boiler , reads ( corrected at KetY ) .
The experiment is now completed , and it only remains to make a couple of corrections on the value obtained as the weight of condensed steam before calculating the specific heat of the piece of zinc .
wo correcbions are necessary\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The bucket has , by a previous experiment , been found to coudense gram of water over a range of .
The range in our riment is .
Therefore the deduction for the bucket is\mdash ; or very nearly .
On the Method of Condensution in Calorimetry .
( 2 .
) The piece of zinc was counterpoised in air .
but the density of steam being less than that of air thert was an apparent increase of eight on the replacement of the air by steam , to an amount equivalent to the volume of the substance multiplied by the specific gravity of steam ( air being unity ) at the prcssure prevailing .
It is sufficient to take this generally as equal to gram per cubic centimetre displacement ( see Appendix ) .
Taking the specific gravity of zinc as 7 , and its weight being grams , the value of the correction is\mdash ; gram .
The total deduction from the weight of condensation observed is ; we take this as in view of the limits of accuracy imposed by the balance .
This leaves , as very nearly the condensation due to the calorific capacity of the piece of raised from to , the weight gram .
The quantities are now collected\mdash ; 0.762 , at this temporature ( see Appcndix ) .
Then by the formula previously given .
Specific heat of zinc Degree of Accuracy by the JIethod .
In a similar way the quantities recorded in the following tables of experiments on metalhc elements have been obtained .
Table of Experiments on some Metallic Elements .
Zinc.\mdash ; Cast and cooled slowly .
Free from arsenic , and probabIy neat'ly pure .
rversR tKopp 0Bunsen .
Silver .
Pure , rolled .
Platinum.\mdash ; Rolled .
Purity uncertain .
Lead.\mdash ; Pure , cast .
*Received from Professor Reynolds .
On the Method of Condensation in Some diversity of result exists among the determinations by other experimenters .
Probably much of this diversity is to be ascribed to actual difference in the molecular co1Jdition of the samples operafed on .
The veracity of the present method must be judged then by general agreement with previous observations .
In the of zinc , howevel .
, the most reliable observations are probably those of Bed , Bunsen , and Regnault .
The first of these observers , it will be remembered , extended his observations to the variations in the specific heat of zinc with change of temperature limit .
* From those observations the value for the mean calorific capacity between and is deduced as .
This is identical , it may be said , with the value found by the method of condensation .
Compare , also , in this list of experiments on zinc\mdash ; and throughon the table\mdash ; the variations of temperature interval , sufficiently revealed in the varying values of , with the delicate compensating variations in the weights of condensed vapour , resulting in the close agreement of the values deduced .
It wil ] be seen too that among the five rssuIts on zinc the extreme variation from the mean amounts to no more than per cent. The expex.imenbs on aluminium , silver , and platinnm tax more severely the consistency of the experiments , owing to the limits of accuracy imposed 'oy the balance .
Of the experiments made on , one is not recorded owing to a doubt about the accuracy of the initial temperature coupled with an abnormal result .
The mean finally arrived at rees with Mallet 's experiments effected in Bunsen 's ice calorimeter .
This value accords better with Dulong and Petit 's generalisation than the lower values of nault and Kopp .
In the experiments on silver , mucb care had to be taken in estimating the value of .
No bucket was used , the specimen bein .
looped in a fine platinum wire , the small quantity of water precipitated adhering to its surface .
It is the smallest condensation 1 have attempted to deal with .
The series on platinum were some of the eal.liest eifected by tlJe method , and that in a very rude form of the apparatus .
Two of the first expel.iments are not included in the list .
As , I think , some import may fairly be attached to consistency in experiments where prevailing conditions vary , I quote for comparison the extremes of Regnault 's experiment on metals I have dealt with .
Platinum . . . . . .
569 grams 7 experiments . .
Zinc . . . . . . . . . .
247 , , 3 , , . .
Silver . . . . . . . .
, , 5 , , . .
Lead . . . . . . . . . .
526 , , 3 , , . .
* ' Mem. Couronnes de l'Acad .
de Bruxelles , ' vol. 27 , 1856 .
'Chemical News , ' vol. 46 , 1882 , p. 178 .
VOL. XLI .
2 beneath .
The total condensation for bulb and rier there with that due to the air contained in the bulb , including also the etiect of displaoement difference from air to steam , afford\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Range , ( 2 .
) Range , The bulb is now opened by removing the extremity of the hook , and weighed grams .
The height of the bal.ometer ( 760 ) and temperature are noted .
The next operation is to fill it with distilled waterTbis is effect under the ) air-pump by exhausting while the orifice fice of the bulb is , and again cautiousIy exposing to atmospher A ace is left linfilled to alIow for subsequent expans on .
pressure .
space 1 The contents of the are now raised to point by lmmers in in a of boiling water , and it is ealed with the blowpipe while at this temperature .
This is necessitated by the hinness of the On the Iethod of Condensation in Calorimetry .
glass ; it was found that such bulbs will not stand the internal pressure otherwise obtaining at steam temperature .
Its eight is now grams .
It is estimated that its content is altogether .
; this quantity of air at 760 mm. , as above , weighs very closely gram .
The deduction for the weight of the glass envelope in order to deduce the weight of contained water is , then , affording In subsequent experiments with this bulb of vater , it is necessary from the precipitation obtained to deduct , as ined by experiments ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , above , diminished however by the quantity of precipitation to be ascribed to the calorific capacity of the contained air present in those experi1r-ents .
Taking the specific heat of air as , this retrenchment calcuIates to be nearly 1 mgrm .
of precipi- tatio1l , and it is taken as such as it probably contained still some moisture .
This lves the deduction as for a range of Although the nearly constant displacement difference of the bulb from air to veam is here , this quantity without sensible error be recalculated for variations in kmpel.ature range as the correction on the large condensations subsequently obtained .
The further process of experiment is the same as previously desc.ibed in the case of zinc .
In this way , the six experiments confained in the following table have been ried out:\mdash ; Table of Experiments on Distilled Water .
The last four in the table were carried out in such a way that the rate of tion was much retarded , in fact the conditions were altered to those ) in the case of a badly cting body .
This was cffected by ield i the glass bulb from direct contact with the steam by a loose fitti copper-foil box , an intervening air-jacket .
left around the bulb .
With this meant precipitatiou was hardly completed in 15 minutes ; the naked 362 .
J. Joly .
bulb was quite heated in something less than four .
A deduction was of course for the shield by preliminary experiments .
I would point out that any error in Regnault 's estimate of the increase of specilic heat of water with rise of temperature will mihtate in a double sense against the agreement of his results with mine .
For this increase is assumed by Regnault in deducing , from his formula for the total heat of steam , the heat of evaporation , and , as it is subtractive , an error on the side of excess in his estimate of the specific heat of water introduces an error on the side of insufficienoy in the value ascribed to , and vice versed .
Thus not alone would the quantity with which I compare my results be erroneously assumed , but in pxoportion as erlor exists in its value , error in the opposite direction would be introduced into my results .
I add some experiments bearing on questions of radiation error as affected by extent and nature of surface exposed to the steam .
They are from those made on minelals , and are embodied in a paper on the specific heats of minerals .
Proc The following table contains cases where experiments were reTable I. On the Hethod of Condensation in Calorimetry .
peated under vely different conditions of surface area .
It is evident from them that the extent of surface exposed by a substance to the steam affects the resuIt only in a very trifling degree ; the repeated consistency can hardly be the result of chance .
As liability to radiation errors will increase , coeteris paribus , with extent of , they reveal , I think , that the method is not open to appreciable error from such sources .
Table II illustrates , in the cases of gypsum , calcite , and ouite , minerals fairly constant in chemical composition , fidelity to the nature of a substance tbrough varying conditions of weight , bulk , sLape , and surface texture .
Table II .
rous cansparent cough.whit.eFib uwhite rFour cenit.orthorhombic : Apart from experiment , I think sufficiently careful consideration shows that we might expeot very derable accuracy 1'rom the method .
There is , it will be found , but o1le source of error needing serious consideration ; it is the danger of occurring , not on the surface of the substance , but at points close to *For a brief notice of abnormal cases see my paper " " On the Specifio of Minorals , \ldquo ; 'Roy .
Soc. ' vol. 41 , p. 364 Mr. J. Joly .
the surface ; in other words , the formation of mist by radiation from the steam to the cold substance .
Now it is assured that on the replacement of air by steam a film of water is instantaneously deposited on the surface of the substance , and , assuming an abundant supply of steam , condensation then proceeds as fast as heat is transferred by conductivity and diffusion across this film to the cold surface of the solid beneath .
then we must assume that the inner surface of the film is appreciably at temperature of this cold surface , it is probable that we may also assume the outer surface of the film to be throughout the experiment nearly at the temperature of the steam .
There cau be but little difference , for fall in temperature is made good with great rapidity by fresh condensation .
There is herc in the first place a condition , as surface radiation can , under such circumstances , be but insignificant in amount , and radiation from points in the surrounding steam can only be supposed as aflecting points within the film or , in some cases , within the substance .
Only in this way can we suppose the formation of precipitation elsewhere than at the very surface of the film by actual contact .
But again , the opacity of water to radiation from aqueous will here aiford protection .
This opacity , it will be remembered , has been shown by Tyndall amd others to be very .
Thus I find that Tyndall records among his experiments that a layer of water but of an inch in thickness transmitted but per cent. of the radiation from a hydrogen flame .
It may be Sllpposed that the more perfect accord between the vibration periods of radiator and absorber obtaining in the calorimeter will ensure greater , if not perfect , opacity .
The contact precipitation , consequ on the loss of vis viva of the impinging molecuIes\mdash ; the film transmitting the energy to the substance\mdash ; insures that there will be many molecllles entering and few leaving , and hence extension of free path or diminution of pressure in directions normal to the surface of the substance .
There is then superadded as a protective element a converging drift of steam upon the substance , tending to restore to it what precipitation may possibly be due to radiation .
Under perfect conditions of steam supply\mdash ; could we suppose , for example , the substance in a chamber which could be supplied with steam from so ) points that we might substitute the idea of an unlimited region of steam suddenly brought around it \mdash ; this drift , I think , excludes almost the possibility of error supposing diation .
In attainable conditions , where cross draughts will prevail to some extent , there would still evidently be protection involved in the very of condensation .
There are , then , three circumstances tending to nullify this elTor ; high of the external surface , the adiathermanous nature of the water film , and the converging drift of steam .
Whether On th Method of Condensation in Calorimetry .
all three act , or whether the first two are not practically efficacious of themselves , I think that theory is here in accord with experiment in showing that on this count no appreciable inaccuracy is to bs apprehended .
There are a few other considerations .
From the facts that there is a fall of temperature across the film , the gradient descending nearly to the temperature of the substance on the one side , and that throughout the period of condensation the film continually gravitates downwards as it rsceives accretion from without , it be expected that water which had not yet risen to steam temperature might in some cases reach the bucket .
This occurs , bub need obviously be no source of .
If experiments be made in glass calorimeters , the formation of a dew on the underside of the bucket will often be noticed ; to this extent it does no harm .
But in the case of sudden and copious precipitation , especially in the case of smooth substances , where water runs off more freeIy at points close to the surface of the body , the precipitation on the outside of the lcket may collect in such quantity thab drops fall off .
I have occasionally noticed this , and it should be borne in mind ; but with the flat form of bucket used , and the safeguard aflorded by the supporting claw , there is little of this occurring up to rapid precipitations not much exceeding a couple of grams .
Over that amount a second catchwater , which may be of small dimensions , should be provided beneath the claw .
The substance hanging in the steam is safe from radiation errors .
The phenomena attending accretion of weight terminate in the conditions whioh prevail in the case of a liquid in presence of a saturated atmosphere of its own vapour , the whole maintained at constant temperature and pressure , when the relative weights of liquid and vapour remain constant statistically , and absolutely so far as we can measure .
If radiation from the hot substance to the cooler walls of the calorimeter occtlrred , constancy of weight would not be atta , ined .
It is certain that the least radiation across the steam-jacket would be revealed in continued slow accretion of weight .
But there is nobhing so striking in experiments effected by this method as the steadily maintained equilibrium of the balance once the substance has the temperature of the steam , the pointer with perfect equality so long , apparently , as chose to prolong the experiment .
If the steam supply be cut off for a moment there is loss of weight , and on restoration of steam there is finally on the whole gain of weight , for radiation , as well as evaporation , occurs in the absence of stea1n .
If the pressure be appreciably increased by throttling the exit pipe and partially closing the boiler for a couple of seconds , the balance , increase of weight ; but so long as the pressure is neither increased nor diminished equilibrium is absolutely preserved .
It is obvious that disturbing eflect due to water-dust or mechanically Mr. J. Joly .
suspended water in the steam is negatived by this constancy of weight .
Probably such dust is all deposited in the steam pipe shortly after leaving the boiler .
Mist or water-dust doubtless is present at first , due to the coudensation produced in heating up air in the calorimeter .
Some of this is thrown upon the substance , but this will be small in quantity , probably inappreciable , and acts against wtlat error is due to radiation from the incoming steam to the substance .
This last is an error to the error of transference in other methods , but with easily attainable rapidity of air displacement probably far less .
The degree of accuracy attainable in effecting the lrements remains to be considered .
Of these , it is evident that in obtaining the temperature limits great accul is attained by the use of thermometers of no extraordinary sensitiveness , If and are reliable to part of a degree , over a range of we are observing to part the quantity to be measured .
As regards the observation of , the weight of water condensed , obviously the of accuracy attainable depends on the sensitiveness of the balance and the magnitude of .
It is also necessary , however , to consider in some detail how far it has been found possible to perfect the mechanical conditions attending the observation of the weight of the substance while immerssd in steam .
It is evident in the first ] that as regards the danger of ducing error into the equilibrium of the balance by heat radiating to its parts , the difficulty may at once be got over by arranging things so that the calorimeter is outside the balance case , as beneath it , the balance standing on a shelf , suppose , and a wire taken down through apertures in balance floor and shelf .
In the form already described , indeed , I have detected no error due to unequal heating of the beam , although I have frequently looked for it by unhooking the substance during experiment and testing for want of equilibrium .
This is due to the protection afforded by the non-conducting material of the tunnel .
It was necessary , however , tol'etain but one pan , as heat conducted by the rails through the floor of the calorimeter set up a draughc tending to draw up the pan .
I have detected no error , measurable by the balance , due to condensation on the wire for suspending the substance , where it issues from the calorimeter .
If this wire be closely observed it will be seen that a little bead of water forms on it just above the mouth of the aperture , and although occasionally reinforced by another little bead slipping down to it , it soon reverts to its original bulk , probably by evaporafion promoted by heat conducted the wire .
With the size of wire used\mdash ; about mm. in diameter\mdash ; I do not think this bead of water ever exceeds half a milligram in weight , and , as I say , the balaIlce shows no sign of any gradual increment of weight .
This On the Method of Condensation experiment on the constancy of weight has been extended to over half an hour on many occasions .
The use of plaster of Paris in forming the aperture avoids what and want of sensibility would be introduced into the weighing by water permitted to accumulate in the orifice .
Until this plan of cutting the aperture in a bibulous material was resorted to , the accumulation of water gave much trouble .
The plaster remains dry when in use for an indefinite time , and wears well .
That now in the imeter has served through more than 300 experiments .
It is also very easily renewed .
In order to avoid as far as possible escape of steam up the wire and ensure constancy of pressure , I have lately adopted a plan which acts automatically in keeping the calorimeter full of steam sensibly at atmospheric pressure .
The arrangement consists in locating the escape valve of the boiler at a level so much below the level of admission into the calorimeter , that a small and consliant pressure\mdash ; due to the levity of the steam\mdash ; is established , urging the gas to ascend the tube leading to the catorimeter .
This end is secured by affixing the escape-valve to bhe end of a wide tube is taken from the boiler bent }vice at right angles and carried down to a level outside the boiler sufficient to secure the requisite pressure ; a couple of decimetres " " head\ldquo ; will in general be sufficient .
The effect on the ghing of steam draugbt within the calorimeter can be entirely avoided by shielding or .
In the forJn already described , indeed , it seldom gave trouble , but in this respect I have in a l.ecent form oved the apparatus .
It is worthy of notice , also , that the conditions prevailing when we weigh a substance at a temperature different from that of the air within the balance case do not obtain here , the substance in the calorimeter being surrounded by an atmosphere at its own temperature .
Description of an Improved Graoimetric Calorimeter .
I have designed an apparatus intended to carry out such conditions as have suggested themselves as conducing to accuracy and to ready working .
Its advantages have already to a great extent been practested in a recently ] eted instrument , but this instrument serving itself to suggest improvements is not the same as that now described .
Plate 7 shows a vertical section and plan .
The apparatus it will be seen consists of a cylindrical chamber with conical ends .
This chamber is divided in a vertical plane through its axis , the separate halves being firmly hinged on a tripod borne on three adjusting screws .
The chamber is thus readily opened by turning back the halves , and closed by pressing them together , when they meet on a ground edge .
It is made of brass and kept as Ur .
J. Joly .
slight as possible .
The half chambers being closed , is admitted at the top of the apparatus , the expelled air escaping at the bottom through a tube which passes through the base of the instrument .
In plan it will be seen that the steam is admitted by a forked or branohing tube at two tubulures , which in elevation are seen to be cut back so as to afford a ready seat for the supply pipe , and also thai the latter when placed in position may conduce to bind closer the half-chambers .
The steam pipe is supported further and retained in position on a light pillar springing from the tripod base .
To its seat on this pillar it is chpped by a bearing against the ce1ltre of the fork , but so that it may readily be laid in its position .
A little tubulure is also provided for conveniently taking the temperature by inserting a thermometer .
* At other times this tubulure is closed by a little cap ( not shown in the drawing ) .
Two half-cylindrical plugs of plaster of Paris , n , otched at their meeting faces , serve as before to pass the wire depending from the balance , .
which is supposed to rest upon a shelf placed above the apparatus .
Within the outer shell of the calorimeter an inner shield of very slight brass is provided , similar in shape , and capable of a rotational moion of about about its vertical axis .
This is eifected by attaching it to a tube which rotates smoothly in the exit-tube at the base of the calorimeter .
It is WOl.ked by a stud projecting through a horizontal slot cut in the latter .
The shield is made in halves , and opens on affixed to the rotabing .
Above , each half of the Hhield is perforated , so that whon in one extrsme position it receives within it all the entering sbeam , but on being rotated no longer a , dmits steam ectly , the perforations then turned away the entrance tubulures .
When it is desired to close the exit-tube of the calorimeter , a stop is pressed in th.ough a horizontal slot in the tube .
Water condensed from the steam by radiation from the imeter is received in a little trongh placed beneath the tripod stand. .
The apparatus is worked as follows : \mdash ; The carrier being suspended at tho righl height on the wiro from the balancs , and the substance being arl.anged upon it , tloe calorimeber , with its inner and outer cases drawn back , is moved under and then closed upon it .
The inner case now rotated so that the .
calorimeter is thus still further closed , and also one of the apertures of the shield , so placed that a thermometer may be passed }Jrough the small tubulure into the interior of the calorimeter .
To guard the calorimeter against sudden changes of temperature while the thermometer is assnming * The effect of scale parallax in reading thermouleters may conveniently be avoided by bringing the scale into coincidence with its reflection on the mercury thread of thermometer .
way doing this is asily aquired after a oouple of triak .
On the of Condensation in Calorimetry .
the temperature , it is necessary to provide a covcr of nonconducting material\mdash ; as wood\mdash ; made in halves , and closing so as to permit the reading of the thermometer .
When it is desired to carry ont the experiment , the forked tube , hich is connected with the boiler by 2 or 3 metres of rubber tubing , is separately heated with steam , the valve on the boiler being closed .
The thermometer in the calorimeter is then read and withdrawn , the cover removed , and the shield rotated into the position for admitting steam .
The steam-pipe is now laid in position ; the construction enables this to be done very rapidly and easily .
Steam is thus passed directly into the inner chamber at two points , and the inner chamber being ] ight condenses but a quantity of steam , so that the displacemenb of the air is retarded as little as possible , and is , in fact , with the empty calorimeter almost immediate .
On steam flowing out freely at the exit-tube , the valve in the boiler is opened and the closed by pressing home the stop in the exit-tube .
The adjustment of the wire in the orifice is now effected by the screws on the tripod .
Effected in this way is a very easy operation , although the orifice may be hardly 1 mm. in diameter and the wire some 40 cm .
long .
Balance and calorimeter must , however , be supported .
The weigbing is now begun , and when it is found that the substance is no longer condensing steam , is finished with the sbield in the calorimeter in its position for sheltering the substance from draughts .
On this operation being completed , the thermometer for taking is inserted in its tubulure , which is now again over oue of the orifices in the inner shield and hence admits the thermometer freely into the calorimeter .
Appendix .
Corrections for cement in ( 1 .
) The substance being counterpoised in air is not when immers in steam\mdash ; apart from the occurrence of condensation\mdash ; any longer in equilibrium with the counterpoise , the density of saturated steam ordinary pressures being different from that of air .
The deductio{1 from the apparent weight of condensation on the substance is equivalent to the volume of the substance multiplied by the difference in the weights of unit volumes of steam and air .
By the apparent weight of condensation is meant that deduced on subtracting from the weight added to the counterpoise during an experiment the weight due to condensation on the carrier .
Let this apparent weight be The difference in the veigbts of unit volumes of steam at air at is , calculated on the absolute densities of and steam according to Regnault .
370 Nfr .
J. Joly .
The correction on is then\mdash ; -V gram , where is the volume of the substance in cubic centimetres .
( 2 .
) If extreme accuracy be desired , it is necessary further to reduce the weight of condensation to vacuo .
Calling the weight deduced after correction ( 1 ) , the second correction is on , and the factor being the absolute density of saturated steam at 10 ( Regnault ) .
It is assumed that we may for the purpose consider unit weight of water at 10 as equal to unit volume .
Finally the true weight of water is very nearly\mdash ; Regarding the fact , or I may mention that a direct experiment made in the calorimeter afforded as tfJe diiference in wei ht of unit volume of sffiam at and air ab and 766 mm. The experiment consisted in hanging a heated sphere of blown glass in the calorl eter \mdash ; it having been previously counterpoised\mdash ; and admitting steam before the sphere had cooled to steam temperature .
When a sufficient time had eIapsed to secure of tempersture the amount necessary to add to the coullterpoise to restore balance was ascertained ; this divided by the volume of the sphere afforded the relative density sought .
* In the experiment the voIume of the sphere was , the weight added gram .
On the of If the value of A be calculated from Regnault 's formula for , say , the cases of a barometer at 720 and 780 , the values and are obtained ; at 760 it is .
In careful experiment this variation must considered .
My practice has been to allow for it by the approxlmate assumption for ordinary variations of pressure that bhe correction on the value of for the standard pressure 760 mm. is\mdash ; , that is I take is the temperature of the steam , read directly by a thermometer or ded \mdash ; as it conveniently may be and with great accuracy \mdash ; from the height of the barometer and reference to Regnault 's tables for the corresponding boiling temperature of water .
* See " " On some methods of Measuring the Densities of Gases by G. F. Fitz gerald , F.R.S. , ' Roy .
Dublin Soc. ' vol. 4 , 1885 , p. 481 .
CARRI ER AN D PA N Proo Soc llen mm \amp ; Co Joby .
A ETRIC CALOR On the Method of Condensation Complete Formula for Calculating the Specific Heat .
lecting the foregoing corrections we get a formula for use if very considerable accul.acy be desirable , but it is to be observed that nnder any ordinary nces correction ( 1 ) on of is sufficient .
The complete formula for , the specific heat , is\mdash ; several weights observed ) eing supposed reduced to vacuo as usual , erwise the letters being as before .

