1879 .
] On the Comatulae of the " Challenger " Expedition .
383 they never , at any time , participated in the rhythmic swing or feeding movements of these last .
Gentle pressure on the anus or the sexual organs excites or inhibits the swimmerets , according as they are already at rest or in motion , and leads , where possible , to a folding of the abdomen .
The feeding and preening movements are also , as a rule , brought to a complete standstill by slight irritation of the anus , the after movements being in all cases more violent .
So long as the nervous connexion with the tail-fin remained intact , the swimmerets can be excited to considerable activity by touching this region , but when this connexion is destroyed , it is with difficulty they are made to move at all .
The experiments , of which the above is a brief and preliminary account , were carried on at the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
II .
" Preliminary Report upon the Comatulce of the ' Challenger ' Expedition .
" By P. Herbert Carpenter , M.A. , Assistant Master at Eton College .
Communicated by Sir Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. Received February 18 , 1879 .
Published by permission of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury .
The collection of Comatulce made by the staff of the " Challenger " includes specimens from 45 different localities , but few of which are deep-water stations .
Comatulce were only obtained seven times from depths exceeding 1,000 fathoms , namely at : \#151 ; Station .
Depth .
Station .
Depth .
205 1,050 fathoms 158 1,800 fathoms .
218 1,070 " 160 2,600 " 175 1,350 244 2,900 " 147 1,600 At lesser depths , 200\#151 ; 1,000 fathoms , Comatulce were met with at 13 stations ; but by far the greatest number both of species and of individuals were dredged at depths much less than 200 fathoms , and often less than 20 fathoms , at 26 widely distant stations .
No. Station .
Locality .
Depth in fathoms .
Antedon .
Actinometra .
Promachocrinus .
Ophiocrinus .
l 48 51 2 2 .
\#171 ; St. Paul 's Pocks 10\#151 ; 80 . .
i 3 122 350 1 4 . .
Bahia 7\#151 ; 20 1 2 384 Mr. P. H. Carpenter .
Preliminary Report upon [ Mar. ^ No. Station .
Locality .
Depth in fathoms .
135 Off Tristan d'Ac unha 550 Simon 's Bay 10\#151 ; 20 Marion Island 50\#151 ; 75 147 1,600 20\#151 ; 60 I 28 l 30 J 150 149 150 f Balfour Bay ... Kerguelen *\lt ; Royal Sound ... [ Cape Maclear. .
151 Heard Island 75 158 1,800 2,600 2\#151 ; 10 160 163a Port Jackson 164 950 169 700 170 630 Tongatahu Reefs 174 210 , 255 , 610 1,350 3\#151 ; 11 , 8 6 49 175 186 187 190 Torres Straits { Sept'.1874 Cape York , Sept. 9 , 1874 . . .
192 129 Am Islands Banda ... .
... .
T*17 Tern ate f. . . .
Zamboanga 10 201 82\#151 ; 102 Zebu Reefs ... ... ... ... ... 205 1,050 18 208 210 375 212 10\#151 ; 20 214 500 218 1,070 150 219 Admiralty Islands 232 345 235 565 236 775 244 2,900 175 308 320 600 344 420 0 \lt ; % \amp ; i i " S ?
to I I c8 a E ft QQ P P IS- ft o At the present time I regard the collection as containing 111 species , mostly new ; but as the work of examination and description progresses , it is not unlikely that forms which I now consider different may turn out to be merely local varieties of one and the same species , so that the number given above , way .
be subject to alteration .
1879 .
] the Comatulae of the " Challenger " Expedition .
385 Of these 111 species , 59 belong to the genus Antedon , 48 to metra , 1 to Ophiocrinus , and 3 , which are peculiar in having ten rays to the calyx instead of only five , to a new genus for which I propose the name Vromachocrinus ( jrpopaxos , " Challenger .
" ) It may be thought that this peculiarity is hardly a sufficient reason for the erection of a new genus to receive these three species .
It is , however , a much more striking one than that on which the genus Ophiocrinus is based , viz. , the presence of five arms only , as the rays , unlike those of most Comatulce , do not divide but bear the arms directly .
In machocrinus on the other hand , there are ten distinct rays , the radial pentagon which is in contact with the centrodorsal consisting of ten separate pieces , and not of five only , as in Ophiocrinus and in the other Comatulce .
In two of the species the rays are undivided as in Ophiocrinus ; but in the third they divide , as in our common Antedon , so that there are twenty arms .
This character the presence of ten rays , is evidently not an accidental one , like the existence of more or less than five rays in other Comatulce and in Rhizocrinus .
In the latter genus individuals with four to six rays are common , and cases of seven , though rare , may occur .
Among the Comatulce , however , it is very different .
I have carefully examined three large Comatula collections besides that of the " Challenger , " viz. , those of the British and Paris Museums , and Professor Semper 's collection from the Philippine Islands .
Out of the nearly 200 species contained in these collections I have found but two specimens in which there are not five rays in the calyx .
In one of these there are only four , and in the other six rays , though in other individuals of each species there are five , the normal number .
The distribution of Promachocrinus is as follows:\#151 ; P. Kerguelensis ( 20 arms ) .
Balfour Bay , Kerguelen , 20\#151 ; 60 fathoms .
Royal Sound , , 28 fathoms .
Cape Maclear " 30 " Heard Island 75 " P. abyssorum ( 10 arms ) .
Station 147 ... ... ... 1,600 " " 158 ... ... ... 1,800 P. Naresii ( 10 arms ) .
" 214 ... ... ... 500 , , Ophiocrinus was obtained at four localities at depths varying from 565 to 1,070 fathoms , two in the South Pacific , off South Australia and Hew Zealand respectively , and two in the North Pacific , one off Japan , and one just north of the Philippine Islands .
All the specimens belong to one species , which is by no means so slender and graceful as Semper 's Philippine species from shallower water , but has a much more massive arm skeleton .
Among the numerous species of Antedon ( 59 ) and Actinometra ( 48 ) 386 Mr. P. H. Carpenter .
Preliminary Report upon [ Mar. 6 , the only species which I have been able to identify with any certainty are:\#151 ; Muller 's specific diagnoses are , as is well known , very incomplete ; and it is possible that a personal examination of his original specimens will enable me to identify more of his species than I can at present .
I am inclined to think that besides the above-mentioned species , the " Challenger " collection also includes the following:\#151 ; The comparative distribution of these two genera is very striking .
Relatively speaking , Actinometra is extremely limited in its range , both geographical and bathymetrical .
It is almost exclusively a tropical genus , its northern limit being about 30 ' N. lat. and its southern 40 ' S. lat. Isolated species are known from the Cape of Good Hope , Natal , South Australia , and Port Jackson , but its chief home is Oceania , especially the Philippines and Moluccas , from which latter locality the " Challenger " brought home 11 species of , but not a single Antedon .
14 species were found at Zamboanga , in the Philippines , but no Antedon ; while at the Zebu Reefs , in another part of this group , two Antedons were obtained , but no and at Station 192 , 11 Antedons , but no Actinometra , just the reverse of what was found at Banda , in the Moluccas .
A few Actinometra species are also known from the west coasts of the Atlantic , as South Carolina , the West Indies , Bahia , and St. Paul 's Rocks .
The bathymetrical range of Actinometra is likewise very narrow .
Nearly all the " Challenger " species are from depths less than 20 fathoms , while only three come from a greater depth than 100 fathoms .
These were all obtained at Station 174 , where the depths of different hauls were 210 , 265 , and 610 fathoms .
I have no information as to which of these hauls yielded the three species in question .
The individual species of Actinometra , like the genus itself , are very local in their distribution .
Act .
Solaris seems to have a fairly wide range in the Malay Archipelago and i/ i Oceania , though oddly enough it does not occur in the " Challenger " collection .
Each of the forty-eight species of this collection has its own locality .
In no case have Ij been able to refer specimens from different localities to the same species , except that duplicates of the same species were found at two stations in Torres Straits ( 186 , 187 ) , very close to each other .
With Antedon , however , the case is different .
Not only do nearly all the deep-sea Gomatulce belong to this genus , but some species of it Antedon Eschrichtii .
" macrocnema .
, , Brasiliensis ( Little .
' ) .
Actinometra multiradiata .
, , fimbriata .
" Novce ? .
, , tr Act .
purpurea .
Act .
rotalaria .
Act .
WaMbergh Act .
stellata ( .
) .
1879 .
] the Comatulae of the " Challenger " Expedition .
387 lave a fairly wide range .
Ant. rosacea ranges from the north of Scotland to the Mediterranean , while Ant. Eschrichtii is found over a much wider area .
It is the common Arctic species , having been obtained by our own expedition under Wares , as far north as lat. 81 ' N. , while the expeditions of Sweden , Norway , and other countries have found it abundant in the seas of Spitzbergen and Nova Zembla .
It is well known on the American coast , and was dredged by the " Challenger " off Halifax , while the " Porcupine " met with it in the " cold area " of the North Atlantic .
The " Challenger " dredgings round Heard Island yielded several specimens which agree so very closely with Ant. Eschrichtii that I am very strongly inclined to believe in the identity of the southern and northern forms .
There are , however , some minor points of difference between them , and the southern form may really turn out to be the representative species of Ant. Eschrichtii , but not identical with it .
I cannot venture to give a definite opinion upon this point until I have had an opportunity of examining a greater variety of specimens than are accessible to me just at present .
There are other Antedon species , which occur in duplicate from different localities .
Two specimens from near the Kermadec Islands ( S. 170 ) , also occur in the neighbourhood of the Fijis ( S. 174 , 175 ) .
A third species was dredged at Stations 147 and 160 , two localities in the Southern Sea , in nearly the same latitude , but separated by almost 90 ' of longitude .
A fourth species came up from 1,070 and 775 fathoms , off the Admiralty Islands and Japan respectively .
The above facts would seem to show that , with few exceptions , the geographical range of the individual members of the family -tulidce , is exceedingly limited , nearly every species having its own locality , and that not a very extensive one .
This is not surprising when it is remembered how rarely Comatulce have been found at great depths .
The stalked Crinoids , on the other hand , are especially characteristic of the abyssal fauna , Bathycrinus , and Rhizocrinus , all having a very wide distribution .
This is true , also , even with the individual species of the latter genus .
This accords well with our palaeontological knowledge .
Chalk Comatulce are exceedingly rare .
Hagenow found one in Germany , which he named Hertha mystica .
From the figure which he gives of its calyx , I should judge it to be an Ant , which agrees well with the facts stated above .
Lundgren* has found a calyx in the chalk of Sweden , which " comes very near to Antedon Fischeri , Geinitz .
" There are also a few chalk Comatulce in the Woodwardian and British Museums , viz. , Qlenotremitesand similar forms , but they are as nothing compared to the remains of Pentacrinus and Bourguetticrinus , and even # " Neues Jahrbuch .
fur Mineralogie .
" Heft ii , 1876 , pp. 180-182 .
388 Mr. P. H. Carpenter .
Preliminary Report upon [ Mar. 6 , these are not too common .
A few specimens are known from the Gault , Greensand , and Bath Oolite , while the Jnrassic beds of the Continent have yielded Solanocrinus and a few little known forms from the Solenhofen slate ( Pterocoma It should be noted , however , at the same time , that Tertiary tulce are also very rare , Philippi 's Alecto alticeps , from the Sicilian Tertiaries being the only one which I can call to mind .
This is scarcely surprising when it is remembered that the distribution of modern Comatulce is chiefly in the tropics and temperate zones , there being but few Arctic or sub-Arctic species .
The Australian Tertiaries might possibly yield different results .
The voyage of the " Challenger " has settled two curious questions in connexion with the Crinoids , the origin of which is due to Loven .
They refer to Hyponome Sarsii , a so-called recent Cystid , and to Phanogenia , a supposed new genus- of the Hyponome turns out to be nothing more than the disk of a Comatula , minus its skeleton .
The anambulacral plating may be very extensive , forming a complete pavement over the ventral surface of the disk as in many Pentaanni ; and the ambulacra are not wide and open as is usual in most Comatulce , but almost entirely closed by the approximation of the ' marginal leaflets at their sides , so that the food-grooves radiating from the mouth are converted into tunnels- In Loven 's specimen the mouth was central but almost concealed , and several similar ones were obtained by the " Challenger " at Cape York , together with one still retained in its calyx and similar in every respect to an ordinary Antedon .
This last shows that it is only on the disk that the ambulacra are partially closed , for they are quite open and of the usual character on the arms .
Species of Actinometra may also exhibit this condition of more or less completely closed ambulacra on the disk .
One of the most abundant Comatulce at Cape York is a large Actinometra , the disk of which corresponds exactly to Loven 's description of Hyponome , except in the eccentric position of the mouth .
Since learning the true nature of Hyponome from Sir W y ville Thomson , I have looked out for a similar condition in other Comatulce , and have found that it is not uncommon though rarely so marked as in the Cape York species .
Two species of Antedon , dredged by the tl Challenger ' at Station 214 , have disks , which , if separated from their dorsal skeleton , woul\lt ; fi be very perfect Hyponomes .
In each species the whole of the ventral perisome is covered with an extensive anambulacral plating , and the marginal leaflets at the edges of the grooves of both disk and arms also contain distinct plates .
In most r there are no plates ill the marginal leaflets , or at most , a few calcareous spicules , irregularly disposed .
In these two species , however , there are definite plates which are comparatively small as in Pentacrinus , and do not attain to 1879 .
] theComatulas of the " Challenger " Expedition .
389 anything like the relative size of the reniform plates at the sides of the grooves of Rhizocrinus , Hyocrinus , and They are all folded down more or less completely over the grooves , which are thus converted into tunnels ; while the mouth is also rendered more or less invisible by the folding over it of the plated leaflets around the edges of the peristome .
The closure of the grooves is much more perfect in some specimens than in others and may extend far out on to the arms .
The plates in the marginal leaflets are probably moveable as the unplated leaflets are in Antedon rosacea ; so that they can be erected when the arms are spread out , leaving the grooves open for food particles to travel towards the mouth .
On the other hand , when the arms are all contracted over the disk , the marginal plates fold over the grooves and cover them in .
This is the condition of most spirit-specimens , but it is not in any way comparable to that of the Palaeozoic Crinoids , in which the mouth is truly subtegminal , while the ambulacra become real tunnels beneath the upper surface of the vault .
Sections through one of these plated show that all the various structures which underlie the grooves of ordinary Comatulce are present and exhibit their usual characters .
A new Comatula has been described by Loven* under the name Phanogenia , which presents a very remarkable condition of the centro-dorsal piece .
Loven 's specific diagnosis of Phanogeni typica commences as follows : \#151 ; " Calyx fere planus , facie dor soli tocum brachiis leevis , suturis aribus , facie ventrali usque ad finem secundi sulcis aratus , quibus adhaeret perisoma .
Articulus centrodorsalis , , persisted , simplex , formam servans stence quinquangularis minutes , sinubus rotundatis , radiis obtusis , facie dorsali leviter convexa cirris preeditus perpaucis { circ .
octo . ?
) , in sinubus sparsis , pusillis , quintem partem diametri stence longitudine vix superabiibus , crassiusculis , versus basin validiusculis , teretibus , leviter arcuatis , loevibus , apice muticis , cod 'd cis foveolas relinquentibus minutas medio pThe figure accompanying the above description shows the centrodorsal in the form of a five-rayed star , which does not , however , spread out over the radials so as to conceal them more or less completely , as is usual in most tuloe , except that the points of the star just overlie the inner ends of the lines of synostosis of every two adjacent radials .
The dorsal surface of the star is level with that of the rest of the calyx , and is marked by a few cirrhus sockets , in two or three of which there are one or two very minute cirrhus stumps .
This is a very remarkable condition of the centrodorsal .
In nearly * " Phanogenia , ett hittills okandt slagfce af fria Crinoideer .
" .
" Ofversigt af Kongl .
Yetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar .
" 1866 .
No. 9 .
390 Mr. P. H. Carpenter .
Preliminary Report upon [ Mar. 6 , all the other Comatulce it is circular or pentagonal , more or less convex , and marked with several eirrhns sockets , either only at the margin or all over its surface , while the cirrhi are rarely so imperfect as in Loven 's specimen .
Among the Comatulce in the British Museum is a specimen labelled Actinometra stellata , Ltk .
It had been purchased from the collection of the Godeffroy Museum , having been previously examined and named by Dr. Liitken .
The mouth is not central as Loven describes it in Phanogenia , but eccentric , though comparatively only but slightly so .
The condition of the centrodorsal , however , is essentially similar to that presented by Phanogenia , and it was this feature , I do not doubt , that caused Ltitken to give the specific name stellata to this type .
The stellate condition of the centrodorsal in Phanogenia has long been a puzzle to me , and I am therefore glad to be able to say that the material brought home by the " Challenger " throws a considerable light upon it .
This condition appears to be one of the concluding stages of a long series of changes in the shape and relations of the centrodorsal , which do not commence until some time after the loss of the stem , and the entry upon the free state of existence .
The " Challenger " dredgings in Torres Straits brought up a considerable number of specimens of a hitherto undescribed Comatula .
This species was first discovered by the late Professor Jukes , who brought home specimens and deposited them in the British Museum .
1 propose , therefore , to name it Actinometr The " Challenger " collection contains nine young specimens of this species , most of which have cirrhi on the centrodorsal .
But in the adult the centrodorsal is a pentagonal plate four millims. in diameter , without a trace of cirrhi or even of cirrhus sockets .
Its surface is level with that of the radial pentagon within which it is enclosed .
Stage 1 .
In the youngest specimen the centrodorsal is a nearly circular plate 1*5 millims. in diameter , just sufficiently raised above the surface of the radial pentagon to bear about eight marginal cirrhi .
Stage 2 .
In others from the same locality which have a centrodorsal 2 millims. in diameter , it bears no cirrhi , and the sockets are partly obliterated , while the height of the plate above the rest of the calyx is somewhat reduced .
Three other specimens , however , of the same size which were obtained at Cape York on another day , still retain their cirrhi .
Stage 3 .
By the time that the diameter of the centrodorsal increases from 2 to 2*5 millims. , its shape becomes more distinctly pentagonal and scarcely any trace of cirrhus sockets is visible , the plate being so thin that it rises very little indeed above the level of the radials .
In one specimen of this size there is one rudimentary cirrhus stump and two 1879 .
] the Comatulae of the " Challenger " Expedition .
391 or three faint indications of sockets , very much as in the stellate centrodorsal of Phanogenia .
Stage 4 .
The adult condition succeeds to this .
The centrodorsal is a simple pentagonal plate 3'5\#151 ; 4 millims. in diameter , and situated entirely within , and on the same level as , the radial pentagon .
This series of changes in the centrodorsal does not proceed any farther in Act .
Jukesii , but in other species it may continue still farther , or on the other hand close sooner .
Thus the centrodorsal of a gigantic Actinometra in Professor Semper 's Philippine collection is in stage 2 ; while those of two other " Challenger " species , from the same locality and equally large , exhibit the next stage of metamorphosis ( 5 ) .
Stage 5 .
In No. 37 ( of my list ) the centrodorsal^is a pentagonal disk without a trace of cirrhus sockets .
It is slightly below the level of the radials , and is only in contact with them by its inter-radial angles , its sides being separated from their inner margins by linear clefts .
No. 49 is in the same condition , and so are two others of Semper 's Philippine species , except that one or two minute cirrhus stumps still remain on the centrodorsal .
Another large " Challenger " species , also from the Philippines , is represented by four specimens .
All of these show the gradual obliteration of the cirrhus sockets and the lowering of the centrodorsal to the level of the radial pentagon , or even below it , together with the presence of clefts at its sides .
These may occasionally appear before the loss of the small cirrhus stumps , as is the case in Phanogenia .
Stage 6 .
In No. 6 , another large Philippine species , the clefts are somewhat wider but very shallow .
They are deeper in No. 30 , but there is no trace of cirrhi on the stellate centrodorsal .
Except in this point ( a very variable one , as seen above ) this seems to be about the condition of Phanogenia .
Stage 7 .
The last stage is reached ^n another of Semper 's specimens which was purchased from the G-odeffroy Museum , and appears to me to agree very closely with Lutken 's Act .
stellata .
The centrodorsal is star-shaped , having a flat centre and five rays , the length of which is about one-third the diameter of the centre ' .
The points of the rays abut on the radial pentagon at the synostoses of every two contiguous radials and are therefore inter-radial .
The re-entering angles of the star are occupied by five clefts , each of which is somewhat planoconvex in shape .
It is bounded centrally by the centrodorsal plate , laterally by two of its rays , and peripherally by the inner margin of a radial .
These openings are large enough to admit the point of a good sized needle for a short distance .
The causes which lead to such remarkable changes in the appearance and relations of the centrodorsal piece , are I think , partly to be found 392 Mr. P. H. Carpenter .
Preliminary Report upon [ Mar. 6 , in an alteration of the relations of the different surfaces of the radials to one another which takes place during their growth .
This is the conclusion to which I have been led by an examination of the separated radials of young and adult examples of Act .
Jukesii but it entirely fails to account for the stellate form of the centrodorsal in Act .
stellata and in Phanogenia .
This feature appears to me to be a further development of a condition which I have already described in Act .
pectinata ; * but I do not expect to get abetter understanding of it until I am able to separate the parts of the calyx , and also to make sections through it .
Both of these modes of research are at present unavailable , owing to want of material .
The appearances presented by the dorsal surface of an isolated first radial are very different among the different species of Comatula .
In many Antedons such as Ant. Eschrichtii , the whole of this surface rests upon the centrodorsal , and except for the edge separating it from the distal articular surface there is no external indication of the presence of a first radial at all , as the second seems to be in direct contact with the centrodorsal .
The superior or ventral surface of the latter slopes downwards from its circumference towards the centre .
In such species as Ant. macrocnema , however , and in most Acti-nometrce a dorsal view of a first radial shows two- surfaces inclined to one another more or less obtusely .
One of these appears externally and is the true or outer dorsal surface of the radial .
It is often marked by a median dark line which extends outwards over the other radials far on to the arms .
The other , or inner dorsal surface , is the surface of synostosis with the centrodorsal plate , and may be at right angles to the outer surface when the ventral face of the centrodorsal is perfectly flat as in Ant. macrocnema .
But in Actinometra it is always placed at an obtuse angle to the outer surface , for the ventral face of the centrodorsal on which it rests slopes downwards and outwards from the centre to the circumference .
I have examined the separated radials of two specimens of Act .
JuTcesii , one young with a centrodorsal still marked by cirrhus sockets , and the other full grown with a large discoidal centrodorsal within the radial pentagon , and below the level of its outer surface when viewed from its dorsal aspect .
There is a considerable difference in the relative sizes of the inner and outer portions of the dorsal surface of the radials in these two cases .
The absolute length of the outer dorsal surface seems to increase very little after a certain stage of growth is reached , for it is nearly the same in the large specimen as in the small one , but the inner or synosteal surfaces of the two differ very greatly in size .
This surface is not only absolutely , but also relatively larger in the older specimen , * See cap. vi , sect. 61 , of my memoir on now in course of publica- tion in the Transactions of the Linnean Society .
" 1879 .
] the Comatulae of the " Challenger " Expedition .
taking up more than half the whole dorsal face of the radial , while in the younger specimen it occupies much less than half .
The effect of this change in the component parts of the radial pentagon is to give its central synosteal surface a considerable slope inwards and downwards , so that the whole , when viewed from above , has the form of a wide and shallow funnel .
The rim of the funnel ( outer dorsal surfaces of the radials ) is thick in the young specimen , but does not increase with the growth of the interior ( inner dorsal surfaces ) .
Consequently , the centrodorsal which forms , as it were , a plug fitting into the funnel , slips farther and farther down into it , until its dorsal surface becomes level with that of the radial pentagon , or even comes to be actually below it .
At the same time it loses its few marginal cirrhi , and their sockets become obliterated , so that the whole dorsal surface of the calyx is one uniform plane .
Act .
JuJcesii remains permanently in this condition ; but there are other species , as we have seen , and notably Act .
stellata , in which the centrodorsal loses its pentagonal shape , owing to the appearance of more or less deep clefts between its outer edge and the inner edges of the radials .
In Act .
pectinata the ventral face of the centrodorsal is divided by ridges into five radial areas , corresponding with the five synosteal surfaces of the first radials that rest upon it .
These radial areas are occupied by median depressions , which increase somewhat in depth from their peripheral to their central ends .
But the synosteal surfaces of the radials do not exhibit corresponding ridges , for they are marked by similar median depressions , which are also deepest at their central ends .
When , therefore , the synosteal surface of the radial pentagon and the ventral surface of the centrodorsal are in their normal state of apposition , they are separated from one another along the median lines of the five radials by five cavities or " radial spaces .
" Those are largest at their blind central ends , and extend in a peripheral direction to open externally by five minute openings , situated round the margin of the small centrodorsal piece , beneath the radial pentagon which rests upon it , and extends considerably beyond it .
It seems to me that we have here an explanation of the large openings between the radials and centrodorsal of Act .
stellata and genia , \amp ; c. In Act .
pectinata these radial spaces end blindly around the central cavity of the radial pentagon , being shut off from it by the thickened inner margin of its synosteal surface .
Whether they are also blind in Act .
stellata , in which they are so very large , or whether they are in communication with the radial divei'ticula of the coelom , which are enclosed within the spouts of the rosette , is a point which can only be settled by making a series of sections through the decalcified calyx .
I have elsewhere ( Actinometra , cap. iv , S 61 ) drawn attention to the homology of these openings between the radial pentagon and VOL. XXVIII .
2 G 394 On the Comatulee of the " Challenger Expedition .
[ Mar. 6 , centrodorsal of Act .
pectinata with the openings on the outside of the calyx of Apiocrinus rotundus and Ap. which are situated between every pair of continuous basals , and the radials which rest upon them .
Other homologues are the radially situated " inter-articular pores " in the upper part of the stem of Pentacrinus .
It is worth notice , that all the species in which the centrodorsal exhibits these variations of form are true Actinometrce , i.e. , they have an eccentric mouth and a terminal comb on the oral pinnules .
In Loven 's Phanogenia , however , the mouth is central , and there is a terminal comb to the oral pinnules .
It is thus a very singular exception , for I know of no Antedonin which the oral pinnules have this terminal comb , nor one in which the centrodorsal has anything like the form which it has in Phanogenia .
In fact , I am able to say that the examination of the " Challenger " Comatulce has entirely confirmed the opinions held by Dr. Liitken and myself ( Actinometra , cap. ii , SS 14 , 15 ) respecting the distinguishing characters of Antedon and Actinometra .
We both agree in referring forms with a ( sub ) central mouth , five equal ambulacra , and no terminal comb on the oral pinnules , to Antedon .
On the other hand , species with an eccentric mouth , a variable number of unequal ambulacra , and a terminal comb to the oral pinnules , belong to Actinometra .
There are only two specimens in the " Challenger " collection which have an eccentric mouth but no terminal comb .
Pourtales ' Comatula meridionalis appears to be another , but these are only three exceptions out of some sixty species .
It will be seen at once that these characters are of no use in distinguishing the genera of fossil Comatulce .
But , as has been hinted above , there are very considerable differences in the shape of the radials and centrodorsal piece in Antedon and Actinometra respectively , and as these are exactly the parts which are most met with as fossils , the generic determination of a fossil form is almost as easy as that of a recent one , which has given up its disk to produce a Hyponome .
As I have described these differences very fully in my Actinometra memoir ( cap. iv , S 41 , 51 , 54-56 ) , it is not necessary to do more than refer to them here , with the remark that a more extended knowledge of the species of both genera has only strengthened the opinions which I have there expressed .
The same is the case with regard to the so-called " ventral nerve " of Comatula , viz. , the fibrillar band underlying the epithelium of the ambulacral grooves .
I have already shown ( , cap. iii , S 23-26 ) that , in Act .
polymorpha and Act .
Solaris , half , or even more than half , of the arms may have neither groove , epithelium , " nerve , " nor tentacles , and I have insisted , as strongly as possible , on the important bearing of this fact on the Ludwig-Gegenbaur view that these subepithelial bands constitute the nervous system of the Crinoids .
1879 .
] On the Characters of the Pelvis in the , fyc .
395 Neither of these two authors has referred to my statements at all , but both have entirely ignored them .
I am now able to repeat them , and fco give them much greater force .
No less than twenty-three out of the forty-eight species of " Challenger " and three species in Semper 's collection , have more or fewer grooveless arms .
I have cut sections of these arms in two species , and have obtained the same results as with Act .
polymorphaand Act .
solans .
The " ventral nerve " and ambulacral epithelium are conspicuous by their absence , while the axial cords in the skeleton , which I also regard as true nerves , give off branches freely in the centre of each arm-joint , as I have already described for other species both of and of Antedon .
Two points are noteworthy .
In one species , one of the posterior ambulacral grooves stops quite abruptly on the disk , some little way from the arm bases , and the two arms to which it would naturally have gone with its " nerve , " tentacles , \amp ; c. , receive no branches from any of the adjacent grooves to supply the deficiency .
Lastly , in the gigantic Philippine species already referred to as No. 37 , there are more than one hundred arms , many of which are grooveless and " nerveless , '* as I have found by section-cutting .
But these abnormal arms are not limited to the posterior part of the body , as is usually the case , for there are several on each radius .
, Evidence of this negative character appears to me to be a serious objection to the German view that the subepithelial bands constitute the only nervous apparatus of the Crinoids .
Ludwig* attacks Lange 's opinions as to the Asterid-nerves , on the ground that the structures supposed by Lange to be nerves are not constant , but are absent from the arms of certain species .
It is curious , however , that Ludwig is unable to apply this reasoning to his .
own views respecting the nerves of the Crinoids !
\#166 ; 1 \#187 ; III .
" On the Characters of the Pelvis in the Mammalia , and the Conclusions respecting the Origin of Mammals which may be based on them .
" By Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. , Professor of Natural History in the Royal School of Mines .
Received February 24 , 1879 .
[ Plate 8 .
] ' In the course of the following observations upon the typical characters and the modifications of the pelvis in the Mammalia , it will be convenient to refer to certain straight lines , which may be drawn through anatomically definable regions of the pelvis , as axes .
t * " Beitr\amp ; ge sir Anatomy der Asteriden .
" " Zeitschr .
fur Wise .
Zool. , " Band f Mx , p. 191 .

