Observations upon Luminous Animals .
By J. Macartney , Esq. Communicated by Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 17 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 258 .
] !
Although the property of emitting light , which is possessed by some animals , has appeared interesting to naturalists of all ages , and although many detached memoirs have been written upon the subject , the author observes that the history of these animals is still extremely imperfect ; and he endeavours to supply the defect by enumerating all the different animals which , to his knowledge , possess that property , and to ascertain , by dissection or otherwise , the parts of their bodies from whence the light issues , and , by experiment , to discover the circumstances necessary or accessory to the emission of light .
The genera in which individuals certainly luminous are to be found are as many as twelve in number .
There is one species of Pholas amongst the mollusca .
Among insects are seven genera ; Elater , Lampyris , Fulgora , Pausus , Scolopendra , Cancer , and Monoculus .
Among the worms is one , Nereis .
And in the class of zoophytes , the three genera of Medusa , Pyrosoma , and Pennatula .
The same property has also been ascribed to various kinds of fish ; but , in the author 's estimation , they have probably acquired that reputation by occasionally evolving light after death .
It has also been said , that the Lumbricus terrestris , or common earth-worm , has been found to be luminous for several days together ; but it does not seem probable that such a property ( if it existed ) could be overlooked in an animal so extremely common .
The luminous property of the Pholas dactylus was observed by Pliny to be communicated to the hand that touched it ; and this has been confirmed by Reaumur .
Of the genus Elater there are three species luminous , one of which , the noctilucus , is so brilliant , that it was employed by the South American Indians for the purposes of illumination .
In the genus Lampyris there are many species , at the head of which is the Lampyris noctiluca , or common glow-worm , which may serve as a specimen of the manner in which the light is produced by the rest .
In this species the light lasts only during the breeding season ; and as it is confined to the female insect , it would appear to answer the purpose of guiding or inviting the male .
But it has been observed by Montbeill4rd , that the eggs are also occasionally luminous ; and Mr. Macartney confirms this observation , as he once saw a quantity of them shine unremittingly for several days together .
Of the genus Fulgora , only three have been particularly noticed for the light they yield , the lanternaria , candelaria , and pyrorhynchus ; although it is probable , from their structure , that many others of the genus possess this property .
The Pausus is remarkable only for the situation of its light , which is carried at the extremity of its antennae .
The Scolopendra electrica is not uncommon in this country ; and yet the light has not often been observed .
According to the author 's observation , the light is communicated , and remains visible for some time on a hand that has touched it ; and , in one or two instances , insects which had been long confined from the light did not appear luminous , but acquired this faculty after being for some time exposed to daylight .
The Cancer fulgens was discovered by Sir Joseph Banks , who observed that its whole body was illuminated , and produced very vivid flashes of light .
Of the Monoculi , the author reckons three species that are luminous ; one discovered by Godeheu de Riville , and two by Capt. Horsburgh .
With respect to the Nereis noctiluca , to which the light of the sea has been ascribed by Vianelli , Griselini , Spallanzani , and others , in various parts of the Mediterranean , and by Adleo in the African and Indian oceans , the author is of opinion that it never appears on the coasts of this country , and that the light of the sea , which we most frequently witness , is caused by Meduswe .
Of these , the largest is the Medusa pellucens , discovered by Sir Joseph Banks , along with the Cancer fulgens , in his voyage with Capt. Cook between Madeira and Rio de Janeiro .
This is six inches in diameter .
The noctiluca described by Taskal is three inches in diameter .
Another Medusa was discovered by Spallanzani in the Straits of Miessina : it is said to be as bright as a torch , and visible at the depth of thirty-five feet below the surface of the sea .
As this light occasionally disappears entirely , and reappears after a considerable interval , Spallanzani supposed the animal to be luminous only when in motion , and that the cessation depends upon its being at perfect rest .
The Pyrosoma Atlanticum , discovered by Peron , seems confined to certain latitudes , and its light , like that of the former , is supposed to be visible only during motion .
Mr. Macartney has himself discovered one Beroe not before observed , and two Medusae , unless one of the latter be , in fact , the Medusa hemispkherica of Gronovius and of Muller , who did not perceive it to be luminous .
The second Medusa , from its extreme minuteness and brilliancy , he calls Medusa scintillans : on account of its smallness it cannot be separated from the water but by straining through a cloth .
When a small number of them are put into clear water , it is difficult to distinguish them while separate , on account of their minuteness and transparency ; but as they gradually collect at the surface of the water , they then appear together of a dusky straw colour .
It is to this species of Medusa that the author is inclined to ascribe many phenomena of illumination of large portions of the sea which have been described by navigators .
In some instances the sea has been compared to a plain of snow .
Capt. Horsburgh saw it of an uniform white colour , like milk , on the Malabar coast , and says it has frequently that appearance in the Banda Sea .
The same was observed by Mr. Langstaffe in a voyage from New Holland to China ; and it was ascertained by him to arise from numerous minute bodies of the size of small pins ' heads , which , when ' lifted out of the water by adhering to the hand , were found connected together as a chain .
At Margate the author has seen these in great abundance ; and in certain parts of Milford Haven they are generally so numerous , that on one occasion he separated , by straining , a pint of Medusse from a gallon of the water .
Mr. Macartney next examines the particular structure of those insects which possess distinct organization for the production of light ; as , the various species of Lampyris , Elater , Fulgora , and Pausus .
The light of the genus Lampyris resides generally in the last rings of the abdomen .
In the common glow-worm these rings are very transparent , and there is diffused over their internal surface a yellowish substance that has been compared to paste ; but the author observes that the matter is organized .
He also remarks , that in the last ring of the abdomen there are two small sacs that emit a light brighter than the rest , and apparently less under the control of the will , as it is more permanent .
In the Elater noctilucus and Elater ignitus , there is a similar soft yellowish substance underneath the corselet .
But in those of the genus Fulgora , which the author has had opportunities of examining , this peculiar matter was not distinctly observable .
In none of these animals could Mr. Macartney discern that the luminous organs were supplied either with nerves , or with air tubes , better than other parts of their bodies .
With the exception of these insects , in which the light is confined to particular parts , the exhibition of light appears to the author to depend on the presence of a fluid matter diffused throughout the whole body of the animal .
By squeezing the fluid of two large Medusae into a glass of wellwater , it was rendered luminous for nearly an hour and a half .
Agitation also occasioned a fresh appearance of light after that periody and even after agitation ceased to produce ally effect , an increase of temperature rendered it again luminous for a short time .
Since the phenomena of animal light have been attempted to be explained in various ways by different authors , and since their experiments are in many respects at variance with each other , the author adds a series of experiments of his own , from which he draws his own conclusions .
A glow-worm lived , and emitted light , nearly two hours in a glass of water , though thus confined from oxygen .
The luminous substance , after being extracted from glow-worms , gave no light .
The luminous sacs , on the contrary , after having been cut out from the tail of the glow-worm , continued to emit light several hours in the atmosphere ; and when put into water the power was prolonged to forty-eight hours .
By application of heat they were not rendered more luminous , and had no tendency to active combustion , like phosphorus .
The luminous part of the glow-worm appeared to raise a delicate thermometer , somewhat more than other parts of its body ; but of this fact the author is not confident : but when the luminous sacs had been separated from the body of the animal , these had no effect on the thermometer , though they continued to emit light .
By heating some water containing Medusoe , the brilliancy of their light was very much increased ; but they were killed in less than a minute .
Some of the same Medusae , being put into spirits of wine , emitted immediately a strong light , which continued till they died .
The Medusa scintillans , or hemisphcerica , being put under the receiver of an air-pump , in a vessel of water , continued to emit light , notwithstanding complete exhaustion of the air .
A Medusa , upon being electrified by sparks from an electric machine , was not excited to give out light .
But when shocks were transmitted through a collection of Medusea hemisphericce , they were excited , and shone with great brilliancy .
From these experiments , says the author , it appears that the luminous substance is by no means of the nature of phosphorus , as it often shows the strongest light when excluded from oxygen gas ; and so far from undergoing any process of combustion , it is incapable of being inflamed ; that the increase of heat during the shining of glowworms is merely an accompaniment , not an effect of the phenomenon ; and that heat and electricity act merely like other stimuli upon the vital powers of the animal .

