Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell .
On Rabies .
1887 .
] the repeated secretion are quite similar to those which happen in so many animal glands .
The various changes which accompany mucilaginous secretion are not shown by Blechnum occidentals .
In Osmunda the drops are much less defined , and , although more numerous , are smaller .
The changes which occur in the drops were observed in Blechnum occidentals .
In Osmunda we did not succeed in following them ; but since the two glands practically present the same structure in the mature cells , we are led to infer that the various processes are similar in both .
The secretion consisting of the mucilage drops and the disorganised protoplasmic framework escapes by the rupturing of the wall , and the disintegrated nucleus and the endoplasm are the only structures left in the cell .
In Osmunda the transverse walls are callussed on both sides , and the whole system ( wall and callus plate ) is obviously perforated by fine holes , which in the functional cell are filled by delicate strands of protoplasm .
These establish a direct continuity between the protoplasmic contents of the various cells of the hair .
We believe that in their main features the phenomena attending the formation of the secretion are such as are very widespread , and limited neither to the ferns nor to the particular case of secretion of mucilage .
II .
" On Rabies .
" By G. F. Dowdeswell , M.A. Communicated by Prof. Victor Horsley , F.R.S. ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Received May 9 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In this investigation , commenced early in 1885 during the outbreak of rabies in London , the first experiments , made by subcutaneous inoculations with the saliva of rabid street dogs , all failed to produce infection .
Subsequently , adopting the methods described by M. Pasteur , I found\#151 ; 1 .
That the virus of rabies and hydrophobia resides in the cerebrospinal substance and in the peripheral nerves , and is not confined to the salivary glands , as hitherto supposed .
2 .
That by inoculation of this substance upon the brain of another animal , by trephining , infection follows much more quickly and certainly than by subcutaneous inoculation .
3 .
That rabies , however produced , in both dogs and rabbits , is essentially a paralytic affection , the same disease in both animals , and 356 Tubercular Swellings on Roots of Vicia Faba .
[ June 16 , that there is no constant distinction between the so-termed " dumb " and " furious " rabies .
4 .
That the initial virulence of street rabies is usually increased , and becomes remarkably constant , by passing through a series of rabbits .
5 .
That the activity of the virus is shown by the duration of the incubation period , to which it is inversely proportionate .
6 .
That the tissues of an infected animal do not themselves become infective till towards the end of the incubation period .
7 .
That of a large number of drugs which were tried , both germicides and those acting specifically upon the cerebro-spinal system , none materially modify the action of the virus in the rabbit .
8 .
That by a series of subcutaneous inoculations with virus treated by the methods of M. Pasteur , immunity , even against subsequent infection , cannot be conferred upon the rabbit ; and that the extreme and unexpected constitutional refractoriness of the dog to infection with rabies , by any method of inoculation\#151 ; as I have found it in the limited number of experiments I have been able to perform with this animal renders it extremely difficult to determine the effect of such remedial or prophylactic measures in it ; and that it is by the statistics of the treatment alone that their effect with man can be decided ; but that judging from the results of the experiments of others , the principle of the method as affirmed by M. Pasteur appears to be established , though unquestionably the " rapid " or " intensive " treatment , as I have found , is liable to produce infection .
III .
" On the Tubercular Swellings on the Roots of Vida FabaV By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.L.S. , Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , Professor of Botany in the Forestry School , Royal Indian College , Cooper 's Hill .
Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 29 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author gives a detailed account of his investigations , of which a preliminary note appeared at p. 331 .
The following are the main conclusions :\#151 ; The tubercles always contain a fungus , allied to the Ustilaginese , which enters the root by way of the root hairs .
The ultimate branches of the hyphge in the cells of the tubercle bud off minute bodies ( gem-mules ) , which are afterwards scattered in the soil .
This process resembles the budding discovered in Ustilagineas by Brefeld .
By means of cultures and observations the author shows that the infection from the soil is probably due to these minute gemmules acting as spores .

