1883 .
] Teeth of Sceparnodon Ramsay .
o Spores of iEcidium on Mahonia aquifolia germinating upon the cuticle of a wheat plant : showing the germ-tubes entering the stomata .
Experiment 162.\#151 ; A wheat-plant , grown out of doors in the parish of West Lynn , was placed in a flower-pot in April .
On the 31st of May this plant was removed to my garden , near King 's Lynn , and covered by a bell-glass .
The plant was far more robust and considerably larger than those employed in the former experiments .
On the 2nd of June it was infected with fresh aecidiospores , sent by Mr. Little from Stagsholt .
The bell-glass was removed on the 5th , and on the 10th of June the uredospores of made their appearance .
On the 19th there were thirteen stems of this wheat-plant , about 18 inches in height ; fourteen leaves were affected with uredo .
There were many wheat-plants , of all ages , growing at this time in the garden , but upon no one of them did any Uredo linearis exist .
II .
" Description of Teeth of a large Extinct ( Marsupial ?
) Genus , Sceparnodon Ramsay .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received October 2 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author describes teeth of a new genus of Mammal , representing a species of the size of the Thylacoleo or Nototherium , specimens of which teeth have been discovered in three distinct and remote localities in Australia .
In shape the teeth resemble the scalpriform incisors of the upper jaw of the in the microscopic structure of the dentine there is a nearer resemblance to that in the incisor of the large extinct form of wombat ( lomus ) .
tigures of the teeth , and of their dentinal structure mag4 On the Determination of Constant .
[ Nov. 15 , nified , are appended to the text .
The author remarks that the first indication of since restored species , e.g. , of the as a large extinct Marsupial , was a portion of a tooth , and corresponding accessions of fossil remains may be expected to lead to a like reconstruction of the present animal .
He is indebted to E. P. Ramsay , Esq. , F.L.S. , for casts of the first found specimens of the teeth in question to which the transmitter had appended the name ; subsequently the author received , through the kindness of 0 .
H. Hartman , Esq. , of Toonromba , Queensland , a large portion of the tooth itself .
III .
" Evidence of a Large Extinct Monotreme ( Ramsayi , Ow .
) from the Wellington Breccia Cave , New South Wales .
' ' By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 3 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author gives a description of a fossil humerus from the breccia cave of Wellington Valley , which repeats the characters of that bone in the existing monotrematous genus Echidna more closely than those of the same bone in any other known kind of mammal .
The fossil , however , greatly exceeds in size that of the existing Australian species , Echidna hystrix , Cuv .
The existence of , at least , two other kinds lately discovered living in New Guinea has been made known in memoirs by Professor Gervais and Mr. E. P. Ramsay , E.L.S. ; these occupy , in respect of size , the interval between them and the Australian Each .
, but the subject of the present paper makes known the largest Monotreme hitherto discovered .
Figures of the fossil in question , and of the corresponding bone of the smaller existing Australian kind , accompany the text .
The fossil formed part of the series of remains obtained from the cave above cited , and was with them submitted to the author , who proposes to indicate the present acquisition by the name Echidna Ramsayi .
IV .
" Correction to a paper 4 On the Determination of Verdet 's Constant , ' published in the ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1877 .
" By J. E. H. Gordon , M.S.T.E. Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received October 5 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In revising my " Treatise on Electricity " for the second edition , in July , 1883 , I noticed a discrepancy between the value of Verdet 's constant obtained by myself and that deduced from M. H.

