V. " On the Geometrical Isomorphism of Crystals .
" By HENRY JAMES BROOKE , Esq. , F.R.S. , Hon. M.C.P.S. &amp;c. Received June 11 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by remarking that all the crystals at present known have been divided into the six following groups or systems : the cubic , pyramidal , rhombohedral , prismatic , oblique , anorthic .
He then states that he has constructed tables which accompany this paper of the minerals comprised in each of these systems , except the cubic , in a manner new , as he believes , to crystallography ; and that the unexpected facts exhibited by the tables present that science under a new aspect .
The author explains briefly the language and notation he employs in discussing the results of the new tables .
It appears that the crystals in each system , except the cubic , are distinguished from each other by what are termed their elementary angles , that is by angles between particular faces of what may be termed elementary forms .
It is next observed that there is not in crystals any natural character which indicates an elementary or primary form , and it is shown that cleavage which Hauy regarded as such an indication , is only a physical character depending upon the degree of force with which the crystalline particles cohere at the surfaces of particular faces .
The question of high indices is also considered with reference to their influence on the choice of an elementary or primary form , and a general explanation is given of the nature of such indices .
The author then states that the most important of the facts presented by these tables , are the horizontal ranges of nearly equal angles , as shown in each system , and the general disagreement in the symbols hitherto assigned to the faces which make with some other face those nearly agreeing angles .
With regard to these facts he observes that no difference of opinion can arise , unless the sources from which they have been derived are incorrect ; but that differences of opinion may be entertained relative to the interpretation of them .
The interpretation to which the author inclines is , that the near agreement in angle between two corresponding faces is not simply accidental , but that it is the effect of some natural relation not hitherto noticed , among all the crystals in each respective system ; and hence , that where the angles between particular faces nearly agree , there ought to be a corresponding agreement in the forms of their symbols .
With this view of the subject in his mind , it occurred to the author that there might be a similar agreement among the whole of the elementary angles in each system , and an examination of the crystals in the pyramidal and rhombohedral systems to ascertain how far this conjecture might be well-founded , has shown that a geometrical isomorphism does exist throughout each of these systems , and that similar relations may therefore be imagined to exist in the other systems .
The author has also suggested that the oblique and anorthic systems are only hemihedral and tetartohedral varieties of prismatic crystals .

