BEperiments to ascertain the Ratio of the Magnetic Forces acting on a Needle suspended horizontally , in Paris and in London .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Artillery , Sec. R.S. Read June 21 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 1 .
] The needles used in these experiments were cylinders 01 6th of an inch in diameter , and 2-4 inches in length , pointed at the ends , and suspended by a silk fibre 5 inches long , over the centre of a graduated ivory circle .
The needle , previous to beginning to count the vibrations , was drawn 50 ?
or 600 from the magnetic meridian by another needle , and left to oscillate .
When it had reduced its arc of vibration to 30 ?
, the counting of its vibrations was commenced , and terminated at 5 ? .
It usually took between 300 and 400 vibrations to reduce the arc of vibration to this limit , occupying from 12 to 16 minutes .
Four of the needles , with an apparatus in duplicate , were sent to the author from Professor Hansteen of Christiana , to be employed in comparative experiments in various parts of Great Britain .
, They were vibrated in Edinburgh by Captain Basil Hall and Lieut. Robert Craigie , and the results are set down with the rest in this paper .
The needles being returned , were also used in the experiments between Paris and London .
The two remaining needles were made by Dollond , of the same size and form as Professor Hansteen 's .
The author then relates his experiments , which were made on the 3rd of December , about seven weeks previous to his departure for Paris , in the garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick ; and on the 15th of January , at Thornfold Park , near TunbridgeWells ; and on the 30th of January , in the garden of the Royal Observatory at Paris .
An opportunity occurring , three of the needles were sent to England early in April , and , with one sent by Captain Hall from Edinburgh , were vibrated by Captain Chapman , R.A. , in the garden of the Horticultural Society , and returned to Paris .
Professor Hansteen 's four needles were always kept separate , but those by Mr. Dollond together , and nearly in contact .
To try the effect of separation , these were separated from the 14th of March to , the 30th of April , and being then again tried in the same place as before , their times of vibration were found unaltered .
The author then states , in the form of an abstract , the results of the several experiments , all the details of which are subjoined in the form of tables .
The mean of all gives a ratio of horizontal directive force in Paris greater than in London , in the ratio of 1068 : 1000 ; and on the supposition that the dip in London is 69ยง 45 ' , and in Paris 67ยง 58 ' , the ratio of the intensity of directive force on the dippingneedle comes out greater in London than in Paris , by about 15 parts in 1000 .

