19 Equations of Propagation of Electric Waves .
5 .
Their formation is accompanied by the production of oil , which is not found in normal leaves .
6 .
The presence of this oil suggests that events similar to those occurring in succulent plants are taking place , viz. , reduced respiration and the development of osmotically active substances in excess .
7 .
It is therefore probable that the intumescences are due to the local accumulation of osmotically active substances , produced under the abnormal conditions , viz. , reduced transpiration and consequent lack of minerals , while caroohydiates are being developed in excess .
" The Integration of the Equations of Propagation of Electric Waves .
" By A. E. H. Love , F.E.S. Eeceived December 29 , 1900 , \#151 ; Eeacl February 7 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The equations of propagation of electric waves , through a dielectric medium , involve two vector-quantities , which may be taken to be the electric force and the magnetic force ; and they express the rate of change , per unit of time , of either vector , in terms of the local values of the other .
Various forms may be given to the equations , notably , that employed by Larmor , in which the magnetic force is regarded as a velocity , and the electric force as the corresponding rotation .
In this form there is one fundamental vector , viz. , the displacement corresponding to the magnetic force , regarded as a velocity ; and this displacement-vector may , in turn , be derived from a veetoi potential .
Every one of the vectors in question is circuital , and the several components of them satisfy the partial differential equation of wave propagation , viz. , \lt ; /\gt ; = c2V2\lt ; f\gt ; , e being the velocity of radiation .
One way of integrating the equations is to seek pa/ t ticuhu systems of functions of the co-ordinates and the time , which , being substituted for the components of the vectors , satisfy the equations ; more general solutions can be deduced by synthesis of such particular solutions .
Owing to the circuital relations , certain known solutions of the partial differential equation of wave propagation are not available , for representing the components of the vectors .
A very general system of particular solutions , which are available for this purpose , is obtained .
These particular solutions are expressed in terms of spherical harmonics and arbitrary functions of the time ; and they can be regarded as generalisations of others , given by Lamb , which depend in the same way upon spherical harmonics , and contain simple harmonic functions of the time .
By means of them , we can describe two types of sources of electiie 20 Equations of Propagation of Electric Waves .
radiation :\#151 ; The sources of one type are similar to infinitesimal Hertzian vibrators , being related in the same way to an axis , but the dependence ' of the emitted radiation on time is arbitrary ; the sources of the other type are obtained therefrom by interchanging the roles of the electric and magnetic forces .
Another way of integrating the equations is to seek to express the values of the vectors , at one place and time , in terms of their values , at other places and times .
The model for all investigations of this-kind is Green 's Theory of the Potential .
The main steps are ( 1 ) the determination of particular solutions , which tend to become infinite , in definite ways , in the neighbourhood of chosen points ; ( 2 ) the discovery-of a theorem of reciprocity , connecting the values , on any chosen surfaces , of two sets of solutions ; ( 3 ) the determination of the limiting form , assumed by the theorem of reciprocity , when the solutions of one-system have the assigned character of infinity at a given point .
The result is the expression of the values of the functions of the other system , at that point , and at a chosen instant of time , in terms of their values , at all points on an arbitrary surface , and at determinate instants of time .
In the present theory , the solutions required for the first step are among those already found ; the theorem of reciprocity is obtained by a modification of the process by which the fundamental equations ' can be deduced from the Action principle ; and the limiting form of the theorem is found by adapting a process due to Kirehhoff .
The result is that the radiation which arrives at a chosen point may be regarded as due to a distribution of imagined sources of radiation upon an arbitrary closed surface , separating the point from all the actual sources of radiation .
The imagined sources are of the two types previously specified ; and the directions of their axes , and the intensities of the radiation sent out from them , are determined simply and directly by the values , on the surface , of the vectors involved in the propagation of the waves .
A method for replacing the imagined sources of eithei type by sources of the other type is indicated .
The general theorem is verified by choosing , for the arbitrary surface and the point , a sphere and its centre ; it then becomes equivalent to Poisson 's well-known solution of the differential equation of wave propagation in terms of initial values .
The " law of disturbance in secondary waves , " to which the theorem would give rise , is also determined ; it is , in essentials , the same as has been found by previous writers .
The general theorem is applied to the problem of the passage of radiation through an aperture .
When a train of radiation comes to a perforated screen , or when electric vibrations take place in the dielectric on one side ( the nearer side ) of a conducting surface , in which there is an aperture , waves are sent out into the medium on the farther side ; but the aperture also has the effect of generating a system of standing waves on the nearer side .
These systems of waves become , to a great On the ProteidReaction of Adamkiewicz , \amp ; c. 21 extent , determinate , if we combine with the general theorem the conditions of continuity of state of the dielectric on the two sides of the aperture .
The determination is practically complete when the medium on the nearer side is the dielectric plate of a condenser , in which .electric vibrations are taking place j and the result can be applied to determine the rate of decay of the vibrations due to transference of the energy to the external dielectric , The example of a condenser , with concentric spherical conducting surfaces , the outer conducting sheet being perforated by a small circular aperture , is worked out in detail ; and the results suggest that the maintenance of the vibrations depends on the screening action of the outer conductor rather than on the largeness of the capacity of the condenser ; in fact , the vibrations of the spherical condenser are much more slowly damped when the capacity of the condenser is small than when it is large , the outer conductor and the aperture remaining the same .
On the Proteid Reaction of Adamkiewicz , with Contributions to the Chemistry of Gflyoxylic Acid .
" By F. Gowland Hopkins , M.A. , M.B. , University Lecturer in Chemical Physiology , and Sydney W. Cole , B.A. , Trinity College .
( From the Physiological Laboratories , Cambridge .
) Communicated by Dr. Langley , F.B.S. Received January 7 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1901 .
In 1874 Adamkiewicz* described the now familiar reaction which results in the production of a violet colour when strong sulphuric acid is added to the solution of a proteid in glacial acetic acid .
Adamkiewicz did not apparently look upon the employment of the acetic acid as introducing anything beyond a certain modification of the action of sulphuric acid .
His original communication opens with a description of the colour phenomena seen when egg-white is dissolved in strong sulphuric acid : and he begins the description of this reaction , since associated with his name , by speaking of " a special influence which the presence of glacial acetic acid has upon the colour of the sulphuric acid proteid solution .
" The view has since been generally held that the coloured product of the reaction arises entirely from the proteid molecule itself , as the result of an interaction between precursors liberated under the influence of the strong acids employed .
V. Udranszkyf believed that the colour change which occurs is , as a matter of fact , to be classed as a furfurol reaction .
It is therefore to be compared with the result of such a procedure as that of Molisch 's * ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' 1874 , vol. 9 , p. 156 .
f ' Zeitsch .
f. physiol .
Chem. , ' 1888 , toL 12 , p. 395 .

