202 Prof. J. Wood-Mason and Mr. A. Alcock .
[ Nov. 26 , XIX .
" Further Observations on the Gestation of Indian Pays : ' being Natural History Notes from H.M. Indian Marine 1 Survey Steamer ' Investigator , ' Commander R. F. Hoskyn , i : R.N. , Commanding .
Series II .
No. 2 .
" By J. Wood-Mason , Superintendent of the Indian Museum , and Professor of Comparative Anatomy in the Medical College of Bengal , and A. Alcock , M.B. , Surgeon , I.M.S. , Surgeon- ' Naturalist to the Survey .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 9 , 1891 .
Contents .
S 1 .
Introduction .
S 2 .
The parturient female and new-born young of walga .
S 3 .
The uterus and trophonemata of Trygon walga at the end of pregnancy .
S 4 .
The uterus and trophonemata of Trygon walga at the beginning of pregnancy .
S 5 .
Conclusions .
S 1 .
Introduction .
On the 24th of February of this year we communicated the results of some observations on the uterine villiform papillae , or tropho-nemata , of Fteroplatcea micrura(Bl .
Schn .
) and their relation to the embryo , and also incidentally referred to the structure and probable functions of similar uterine papillae in Trygon bleelceri and Myliobatis nieuhofii .
We were able to show that in the pregnant females of these Batoids the mucous membrane of the uterus is extended in the form of elongate papillae , the entire surface of which , again , is beset with tubular glands , and we were able to bring forward evidence in favour of the view\#151 ; more especially in the case of that the function of these glands is to secrete a nutritive fluid which is conveyed down the pharynx and into the stomach of the embryo .
Since the date of that communication we have been fortunate enough to obtain , in the course of the " Investigator 's " survey of the Godavari Delta , pregnant and parturient females of Trygon Muller and Henle , a pregnant female of Myliobatis nieuhofo ( Bl .
Schn .
) , numerous pregnant females of micrura ( Bl .
Schn .
) , and an unimpregnated uterus of Narcine , the examination of which appears to corroborate the view advanced by us as to the function of the uterine papillae and their relation to the embryo .
In the case of Pteroplatcea micrura , of which species we have examined over a score of pregnant females , we find that the oviduct is dilated into an uterus on both sides of the body equally , and that each uterus may contain from one to three embryos , the usual number being two .
In the early stages of gestation the entire surface of the 1891 .
] Observations on the Gestation of Indian Rays .
mucous membrane of the uterus is beset with trophonemata , but with the growth of the foetus the trophonemata become atrophied by pressure , except opposite .the spiracles of the foetus , where they remain as large bunches which penetrate through the spiracles deep into the foetal pharynx .
We find that where , as appears to be the most common condition , two embryos occupy the uterus , the one is rolled up within the other\#151 ; head to head and tail to tail\#151 ; but in such a way as to leave the spiracles of the inner one exposed for the trophonemata to enter .
In one remarkable instance , where one spiracle of the inner embryo was overlapped and concealed , that spiracle was of diminutive size , while its fellow of the opposite side was much enlarged .
On microscopic examination we find the nutrient secretion of the trophonemata to contain numerous small granular bodies , and a few large granular corpuscles which resemble leucocytes .
In the pregnant female of JHyliobatis nieuhojii we found three young ones , two males and a female , of different sizes , in an uterine enlargement which exists on the left side only .
In the two smallest there are very delicate external gills ; but of such structures there is no trace whatever in the largest embryo .
The spiracles in all are singularly large and patent , being kept open by an eave-like extension of the cranial cartilage .
The mucous membrane of the uterus , which is thickly beset with long branched glandular villi , was intensely vascular , had an odour , not of fish , but like that of raw beef , and was covered with a creamy yellowish-coloured fluid somewhat resembling " laudable pus " in appearance .
It may be mentioned that the spiral gut of one of the embryos was found to be full of the same creamy fluid , unchanged .
Apparently ^ loose in the body cavity , in the largest foetus , were found strings of ^ bead-like concretions held together by inspissated albuminous ] material : and on examination under the microscope these concre- . !
tions were found to contain numerous crystals of oxalate of lime and J dumb-bell-shaped bodies exactly resembling the dumb-bell concre- , , tions of urate of ammonia found in human urine .
As one of us has already described ( 'Journal Asiatic Society , Bengal , ' vol. 59 , Part II , pp. 54 and 55 ) the general structure of the sJ uterus and uterine glands in the stage preparatory to pregnancy in , My Hob at is nieuhofii , we are deferring a report on this species in the \amp ; hope of obtaining ampler material to make the report , more complete .
We devote this paper to some account of the phenomena of gesta-5 tion in Trygon vjalga , in which we have been able to make fuller | observations .
204 Prof. J. Wood-Mason and Mr. A. Alcock .
[ Nov. 26 , S 2 .
On the Parturient Female and New-born Young of Trygon walga .
Two females of Trygon walga , Muller and Henle , were taken at Cocanada , in the Godavari Delta , on the 8th of April of this year .
The abdomen , in one of them , was so much distended that the normal flat shape of the fish was obscured .
On transfer of this specimen to a bucket of sea-water , two young ones were seen to be suddenly extruded from the cloacal orifice\#151 ; one a few minutes after the other .
The young ones swam about vigorously in the bucket .
Relatively to the size of the abdominal cavity of the mother , which in this species is much contracted , the young ones are enormous ; and on seeing the two of them beside the open maternal abdomen it appears almost incredible that they could ever have been compressed into such a confined space .
The following are the measurements of the mother and offspring , with their weight after preservation in spirit:\#151 ; Mother .
New-born young one , No. 1 .
New-born young one , No. 2 .
Length of disk 205 mm. 67 mm. 67 mm. Breadth of disk 185 " 70 " .
72 Length of tail . . . .
180 " 85 " t u " 95 Length of snout from margin 1 of fronto-nasal process to \gt ; tip 57 " 19 " 19 " Weight. .
2734 grains 200 grains 174 grains Both young ones were females ; neither of them had any traces of external gill filaments ; both of them had a small papilliform umbilical vesicle about 1 mm. long .
The spiracles in both were large and widely open .
Before going on to describe the visceral anatomy of the young , and the structure of the uterus and its trophonemata in the adult , there are certain interesting external characters , distinguishing the young from the mature female , which are important enough to be mentioned .
( 1 .
) In the young , the dorsal surface of the body is quite smooth and devoid of the dermal tubercles which , in this situation , characterise the adult .
( 2 .
) The young have only one tail spine , whereas e adult has two , and in front of them along series of fixed spinelets .
( 3 .
) The middle third of the space between the base of the tail spine and the tip of the tail is occupied in the young one by a median fold 1891.J Observations on the Gestation of Indian Rays .
of the dorsal integument 15 mm. long and about 0'/ 5 mm. in height ; this is , no doubt , a vestige of the vertical system of fins , of which no trace exists in the adult .
( 4 .
) The ventral fins in the young are placed relatively farther back than they are in the adult , projecting considerably beyond the hinder margin of the disk , while in the adult they barely reach this limit .
( 5 .
) The tail is relatively a good deal longer in the young .
The young are pigmented in all respects like the adult .
In the young one , immediately after it has left the uterus , tho abdomen is very tumid , its anterior wall being stretched so thin that the abdominal and intestinal contents can be seen through it .
On opening the abdomen , its cavity is found to be almost completely filled by the enormously distended colon ( spiral gut ) , the liver , stomach , and duodenum being displaced forward beneath the pectoral girdle ; the rectum is very sharply marked off from the colon , and appeal 's as a narrow cord ; the oesophagus and stomach are empty , hut the colon is filled with bile-stained granular material , which , under the action of spirit , has become a hard , yellowish-brown cake , of which the weight is no less than one-sixth to one-seventh of that of the entire body .
The large relative size of the rectal gland is remarkable , not only in this species , but also , we may mention , in the foetus of nieuhofii and Pternplatcea micrura .
S 3 .
On the Uterus and Trophonemata Trygon walga at the Close of Pregnancy .
The abdomen of the mother was laid open immediately after the hirth of the young ones .
The right ovary and oviduct are undeveloped ; the left ovary is large , and the distal end of its oviduct is dilated into a pyriform uterine swelling , the aperture of which projects into the cloaca as a conspicuous os uteri .
On opening the uterus , which is much contracted when empty , we find a moderately thick fibrous and muscular wall , lined internally with a mucous membrane which is everywhere produced into long papillae ( trophonemata ) ; these are brittle and friable .
The trophonemata , which are cylindrical , unbranched , and taper slightly from base to apex , are about 10 mm. in length and about 1 mm. in breadth ; and , on examination with a low magnifying power , their surface is seen to be granular and much fissured .
A transverse section through the uterine wall shows , from without inwards , ( 1 ) a thin layer of fibrous tissue , ( 2 ) a layer of muscular fibres cut transversely , ( 3 ) a layer of muscular fibres cut longitudin-ally , and ( 4 ) the vascular submucosa and the mucosa about to be described as they appear in a trophonema .
206 Prof. J. Wood-Mason and Mr. A. Alcock .
[ Nov. 26 , Sections , both transverse and longitudinal , through a trophonema display a central core of fine connective tissue , in which , besides arteries , veins , and a dense capillary plexus , are cells and very numerous free leucocytes ; and surrounding or external to this a series of solid finger-shaped coagula formed of confluent cells in various stages of degeneration .
At the one extreme , these finger-shaped masses are seen to be made up of desquamated cells the protoplasm of which has simply become confluent into a solid mass wherein the nuclei , with the nuclear network very clear and conspicuous , stand out distinct and unchanged ; while , at the other extreme , are found nothing but solid granular coagula in which neither nuclei nor structure of any kind can be distinguished , with leucocytes scattered between them .
We may anticipate events by stating that these solid masses of cells and granular coagula appear to be " epithelial casts " of the glands which , as we shall show , invest the surface of the tropho-nemata in the earlier stages of pregnancy , but which , at the close of pregnancy , are undergoing coagulative degeneration , while the leucocytes present appear to be exercising a resorptive function .
S 4 .
On the Uterns and Trophonemata of Trygon walga at the Beginning of Pregnancy .
'Ihe second female specimen is about the same size as the first , but had not the same convexity of the abdomen .
It also has the right ovary and oviduct undeveloped , while the left ovary is enlarged and distended with ova , and the distal end of its oviduct is dilated into a pyriform uterine chamber , which , however , is smaller than in the first specimen measuring only 32 mm. from the fundus to the os .
An egg which had recently descended into the uterus was ruptured accidentally in dissection .
The uterus has at this stage in all respects the same form as it has at the end of pregnancy ; but the trophonemata , on the contrary , are as strongly contrasted as possible in the two stages .
For while in the late stage they have the form of an elongated cone and are in process of disintegration , in the early stage they are strap-shaped and are in process of integration .
That the trophonemata were not functioning , their incompletely evolved condition proves , apart from the consideration that in the well-filled yolk-sac there would be abundant sustenance for the embryo for some time .
The trophonemata are somewhat wavy , rather thick and fleshy , strap-shaped bodies , measuring about 10'5 mm. in length by about I mm. in greatest breadth .
Harrow at their origin , they almost immediately widen out to their greatest breadth , which is maintained to about the seventh tenth of their length , whence they taper to their 18911 Observations on the Gestation of Indian Rays .
rounded extremity .
They are with difficulty straightened out from their wavy curl .
In stained preparations a dark unbranched line is seen following the sinuosities of the trophonema , nearer to one margin than to the other , and tapering away to nothing at the apex ; it is the rounded thickening formed by the ( developing ) axial vein which is so conspicuous in the trophonemata of Pteroplatcea .
A* trophonema , lightly stained with borax carmine , mounted in spirit and glycerine , and viewed under a Zeiss D ocular 2 by transmitted light , shows a darker and broader median band and two lighter and much narrower marginal bands .
In the former the axial vein presents itself as a streak with a pale axis , which transverse sections prove to be the optic expression of the commencing lumen .
In each of the latter a large vessel , which in transverse section is seen to be an artery , can readily be made out .
By careful focussing , the surface of the broad median band is seen to be covered with a coarse polygonal network , with paler meshes , which correspond to the simple or compound duct-openings of subjacent glands ; the network , like the surface of the pale marginal bands , is covered continuously with minute flat glassy cells having sharply defined nuclei and distinct limiting membranes .
Some preparations suggest that , in trophonemata which are less advanced in development than the one under description , this layer of pavement cells may form a continuous investment over the whole trophonema .
Transverse sections of a trophonema show that the meshes of the polygonal network above referred to coincide with bulb-shaped nests of cells which are the still solid foundations of glands .
These glands are arranged , as in Pteroplatcea ( vide i Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 49 , PL VIII , fig. 5 ) , perpendicular to the surface , side by side , in the substance of the mucosa , but not quite so close together .
They are squat bulb-shaped organs , and are often compound , with two , three , or , perhaps , four acini .
In consequence of the absence of limiting cell-membranes , the exact arrangement of the gland cells cannot be made out , but the nuclei , which are elongate , are arranged somewhat irregularly in two strata\#151 ; the nuclei of the two strata and of the same stratum overlapping one another ; whence it may be inferred , though no cell-boundaries are traceable , that the gland tissue forms a two-layered stratified columnar epithelium similar to that which is found in many parts of the Mammalian respiratory tract .
The glands , which , as above stated , are quite solid without any trace of lumen , appear to have originated as ingrowths of the indifferent layers of the epithelium alone , the outer layer of flat glassy pavement cells which invests the surface of the trophonema between the glands and at its sides not having been involved in the process .
And , from appearances presented by less developed trophonemata , 208 Observations on the Gestation of Indian Rays .
[ Nov. 26 , .we infer that , in early stages , the pavement , layer forms a continuous investment over the whole trophonema ; and that subsequently , by the separation from one another at definite spots of the pavement cells , stomata are formed , which , when the lumina of the glands are established , become the mouths of the glands .
Be this as it may , the outer ( pavement ) layer is not traceable into the mouths of the glands at any point in any of our sections .
The trophonemata possess an exceedingly rich vascular supply .
All the sections show two large , but not very thick-walled , arteries , one in each non-glandular margin ; minute arterioles here and there between adjacent glands immediately beneath the epithelium ; and , between the layers of glands of opposite faces , a plexus of sinuous cavities or capillaries .
The capillary plexus in transverse sections of a trophonema is seen to extend deeply between the glands right up to the superficial arterioles ; and , in the part corresponding to the position of the great axial vein of Pterojplatcea , it presents a solid or spongy circular expansion , in the centre of which the future lumen of the vessel is commencing to be formed .
In transverse section of a group of glands the capillary plexus is seen to form a polygonal network , in the meshes of which the glands lie .
, In comparison with Pteroylatcea the trophonemata of Trygon tvalga are characterised by the possession of an epithelium which is several cells thick instead of one cell thick , and by the richer vascular supply of their glands , each of which is embedded in a little capillary cup of its own , like a filbert in its husk .
S 5 .
Conclusions .
1 .
Comparison of the trophonemata in the two stages above described , showing , on the one hand , at the onset of pregnancy , a mucous membrane of large nucleated indifferent cells and of solid unformed glands , and , on the other hand , when the term of preg'nancy is fulfilled , a surface layer of gland-casts of epithelium in various stages of degeneration , appears to be conclusive proof that the glands are developed for the special requirements of the pregnant state .
2 .
As regards the function of these glands , the presence in every case where a fresh pregnant uterus has been examined of a viscid turbid or actually milky albuminous fluid , and further the finding in the case of Myliobatisnieuhofii of one and the same secretion in the uterus of the mother and in the intestine of the foetus , seem to fully confirm our original conclusion that they are in all cases milk-glands furnishing a secretion for the nourishment of the embryo .
3 .
Regarding the channel through which the milk is carried into the foetus , we think it to be in every species that we have examined , 1891.1 Variations observed in the Rabbit 's Liver .
209 Pteroplatcea micrura , Myliobatis nieuhofi , Trygon , and Ttygon Ueekeri , the large wide-open spiracles .
In we know that the trophonemata pass into the spiracles ; but the singular distension of these orifices in the other species , in contrast to the smallness of the other apertures of the body , points to the conclusion stated .
4 .
The stomach in all cases that we have hitherto observed ( except in Trygon bleeTeeri , where the observation was lost ) is empty , small , and displaced ; while the colon ( spiral gut ) is full , large , and distended at the expense of other organs .
And this leads us to the conclusion that the foetal stomach is simply a channel through which the easily assimilable food passes to be absorbed by the spiral gut .
And of this conclusion the presence of the unchanged " milk " in the spiral gut of Myliobatis is corroborative .
5 .
Finally , as to the method of respiration of the foetus , no conclusion can as yet be arrived at .
It is probably safe to assume that the consumption of oxygen and the production of carbonic acid by the foetus are comparatively small , and that the respiratory exchanges are sufficiently carried out through the soft foetal skin where this comes in contact with the vascular trophonemata and uterine wall .
Hitherto , we have not found any special distribution of bloodvessels to the skin , in the foetus .
And in Pteroplatcea the manner in which , when two foetuses are present , the one is rolled up within the other , prevents contact of the inner foetus with the uterine wall , except at the snout , and where the trophonemata enter the spiracles .
We are indebted to Professor G. B. Howes for calling our attention to a short note by Dr. W. A. Haswell ( ' Proceedings Lmnean Society , Hew South Wales , ' vol. 3 , 1889 , pp. 1713 to 1716 ) on Urolophus , in which it is suggested that the extraordinarily long external gills of the foetus are concerned in absorbing matter which is supposed to exude from the blood-vessels of the uterine villi .
IV .
" On some of the Variations observed in the Rabbit 's Liver under certain Physiological and Pathological Circumstances .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , and Sheridan Delepine , M.B. , B.Sc. Received October 22 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) Under the influence of the natural stimulus of digestion , numerous changes are observable in liver cells .
In this we partly confirm and partly complete ( and add to ) the observations of previous investigators .

