Observations on the Efects of Magnesia , in preventing an increased Formation of Uric Acid ; with some Remarks on the Composition of the Urine .
Communicated by Mr. William T. Brand , F.R.S. to the Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read February 22 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 136 .
] Mr. Home 's inquiries into the functions of the stomach , and his discovery of liquids passing directly from the cardiac portion into the circulation of the blood , occasioned him to consider the prevention of calculous complaints , by correcting the generation of acid in the stomach , and consequent secretion of uric acid .
Since magnesia was better adapted to the mere correction of acidity than alkalies , as it could not be absorbed till it had been previously dissolved , Mr. Home was desirous of examining its effects in preventing the generation of uric acid , and requested Mr. Brande 's assistance for that purpose .
After several previous trials , in which it appeared that an excessive secretion of uric acid was corrected by magnesia more than by a liberal use of alkalies , it was afterwards tried in various cases of con- , firmed calculus ; and four cases are selected as instances of the prin. .
cipal varieties of that disorder , from many others in which magnesia was tried .
The first was that ; of a gentleman of 60 , who had passed small calculi of uric acid .
He had first taken subcarbonate of soda in water highly impregnated with carbonic acid , to the quantity of nine drachms in a day , but without any apparent effect on the secretion and formation of uric concretions .
He then took , in the same manner , subearbonate of potash , dissolved in water impregnated with carbonic acid , to the quantity of three drachms every day ; but though the deposit of sand from the urine was in some degree diminished , yet small calculi continued occasionally to be voided .
On the contrary , by taking as much as fifteen grains of magnesia three times a day , the quantity of uric acid was diminished in quantity ; and after three weeks was only occasionally perceived in his urine .
The second case is that of a gentleman 40 years of age , who for four years preceding had occasionally passed much red sand , and once a small calculus .
Subcarbonate of soda was first given him in water highly impregnated with carbonic acid , which had the effect of diminishing the secretion of uric acid , but not of preventing occasional severe attacks after irregularities in his diet .
Magnesia was next directed , to the quantity of twenty grains every night and morning ; and during six weeks ' continuance of this preventive , he had no return of his complaint , and no superabundance of uric acid in the urine .
The third was a gentleman of 43 , who had passed three small calculi , and whose urine had for a short time been constantly turbid , and occasionally deposited red sand .
By the use of soda-water , these symptoms were diminished , but returned in some degree even during the continued use of it ; and his urine became also loaded with mucus .
By taking twenty grains of magnesia every night , the uric acid diminished in quantity , but did not disappear entirely , even by the continued use of magnesia for three weeks in the same quantity .
It was then repeated every night and morning for a month , and succeeded in restoring the urine to a perfectly healthy state .
Upon a return of the disorder , he had recourse again to the magnesia , with the same effect .
The fourth patient was subject to gout , and occasionally voided abundance of red sand , consisting of uric acid .
He was subject to heart-burn , and to other pains attendant upon weakness of stomach , for which he had been in the habit of taking tincture of bark and other spirituous medicines .
He had also tried the use of alkalies , but could not continue them on account of the unpleasant sensation they occasioned in his stomach .
Magnesia was accordingly given , at first three times a day , and afterwards in a quantity of twenty grains twice every day ; and it had the effect of lessening the disposition to form uric acid , and appeared also at least to suspend the attacks of gout for a greater length of time than he had been accustomed to .
Comparative trials were afterwards made of the effects of the alkalies and of magnesia upon healthy urine .
Two drachms of subcarbonate of soda seemed to Mr. Brand to produce its full effect upon the urine in a quarter of an hour after it had been taken , occasioning a precipitation of the phosphates of lime and magnesia , and giving other indications of its presence , by restoring the blue colour to litmus-paper .
When supersaturated carbonate of soda was taken , the precipitation of the phosphates was less distinct and less rapid , as they remained dissolved for some time by excess of carbonic acid in the urine , and then began to appear as a pellicle at the surface by gradual escape of the carbonic acid in the form of gas .
In experiments with potash , the results were the same as when soda was employed .
Magnesia had also the same effect of occasioning a precipitation of the earthy phospliates ; but on account of its insolubility , a greater length of time was required to produce the effect .
Lime-water also required as much as five hours to produce a sensible precipitation ; and even then it was not nearly so distinct as from the alkalies .
Since the effects of soda or potash were altered by the presence of carbonic acid , the acid itself was tried alone , by taking twelve ounces of water highly impregnated with carbonic acid ; and as it evidently passed off by the kidneys , and appeared in the urine of a healthy person , it was afterwards tried in one who was subject to calculus , consisting of the triple phosphate of magnesia .
Though his stomach did not admit the use of stronger acids , the carbonic acid proved highly grateful ; and by examination of his urine , it appeared that the phosphates , which before were voided as a sediment of white sand , were now passed only in a state of complete solution , by means of the redundant acid .

