]\gt ; On of losion of ses .
471 On the Movements of the Flame the Explosion of Gases HAROLD B. DIXON , M.A. , F.li .
S. eceived and Read June 5 , 190 I.\mdash ; Historical Bunsen , in 1867 , made the first careful measurement of the rate at which an explosion is propagated in gases , and he also made the first systematic researches on the pressure and temperature produced by the explosion of gases in closed vessels .
His results led him to the remarkal ) conclusion that there a tinuous combustion in explosions .
When electrolytic gas , or when carbonic xide with half its of oxygen is fired , only one-third of the mlxture is burnt , according to Bunsen , the temperatllre of the whole to about C. No there chenlical action then occurs until the gascous mixture falls by cooling below .
Then a further combuslion begins , and so on , per ) .
These deductions were criticised by Berthelot , who pointed out that they assumed the constancy of the specific heats of steam and of carbonic acid at high temperatures .
Bunsen also stated that the rapidity with which the flame of the explosion is onous with the attainment of complete combustion and of the ximum temperatllre .
In 1881 Berthefot and Le telier independently discovered the great velocity with which iiame traYcls in gaseous explosions .
Berthelot showed this velocity was a const for each gaseous mixture , and compared the rate of " " -wave\ldquo ; } sir with the mean velocity of the moJecllles produced by the combus- tion before they had lost any heat .
the kcrian Lecturc for 1893 , the author showed that Berthelot 's theory did not for observed rates of explosion , and put forward the view the explosion-wave travelled with the velocity of sound in the buruing Using ths rates determined by the author , D. L. Chnpman has argued that , if the explosion-wave is of a perm nent type , an tion can be deduced from 's formula by which the rates of explosion can be if the specific heats are , and vice verse .
The rale of detonation-wave may therefore bc utilised , according to Chapman , to determine the specific heats of gases at very high temperatures .
In 1883Iallard and Le Chatelier published their researches on the combustion of gaseous mixtures .
Using a delicate dicator , they found that rapidly exploding gases gave very high pressnres for very small periods of time ; these high but fugitive pressures hey attribute VOL. LXX .
Prof. H. B. Dixon .
On the Movements [ June 5 , 10 the compression-wave which is propagated as the inflammation spreads from layer to layer .
To obtain the mean pressure of the ignited mass of gas they had recourse to a less sensitive Bourdon gauge , and from the pressure-curves so registered they alculated the maximum pressures and temperatures of the explosion .
Their results may be summarised in the statement that the maximum temperature of the explosion of moist electrolytic gas is 3350o C. , and the mean specific heat of steam between that temperature and is ( at constaut volume ) , dissociation being very slight , if any , between these tempera ; on the other hand , the mean specific heat of rises to at 2000o , and above this dissociation begins .
The simple diatomic gases show a rise of specific heat , though far less marked .
Berthelot and Vieille ( 1885 ) also determined the maximum pressures produced in the explosion of gases , and caloulated the maximum temperatures .
Their results were similar to those obtained by Bunsen , but they attribute the defect of pressure observed not to the inability of the gases to combine at the reached , but to the great increase of the specific heats of the products of combustion .
On the other hand , Dugald Clerk contended ( 1886 ) that in an sion the combustion is nsvsr completed instantaneously , and since the burnt gases are cooling while the unburnt are still combining , the observed pressures and temperatures fall short of those calculated for instantaneous combustion .
bIallard and Le Chatelier vere the first to record the movements of the flame in explosions by photography on a moving film ( 1883 ) .
Failing to obtain images of the flame with mixtures such as they employed with oxygen and with nitric oxide .
When the gases were ignited by a flame at the open end of a long tube , the flame was propagated along the tube for some distance with a uniform slow velocity .
In the case of mixtures of carbon disulphide with nitric oxide , this period of uniform movement is succeeded by oscillations of the flame , which sometimes become of larger and larger amplitude and then die down , and sometimes give rise to the " " detonation-wave.\ldquo ; When carbon disulphide is mixed with oxygen , the preliminary period of uniform movement is shorter , and is succeeded immediately by the detonation .
Mallard and Le Chatelier draw attention to the fact that in these explosions\mdash ; starting at the open end of a tube\mdash ; the development of the -wave is not proyressive , but i the mixture was fired near the closed end of a tube , the movement of the flame was uniformly accelerated until the detonation is set up .
Their apparatus did not move fast enough to analyse the more rapid movement of the flame .
In 1888 von Oettingen and von Gernet analysed the flame by 1902 .
] of the the Explosion of Gases .
means of a rotating mirror .
Their photographs reveal , they state , the phenomena immediately succeeding the chemical combustion .
For although the flame of electrolytic gas appeared intensely bright , its spectrum only gave the sodium and calcium lines , and the most scnsitive photographic plates showed ' ' hardly a trace of the process Failing to photograph the flame itself , the authors added finely divided salts to the tube , and found that the most brilliant pictures were given by cuprous chloride .
Their pictures show the passage of waves sharply reflected backwards and forwnrds from the ellds of the tube , and gradually diminishing in intensity and velocity .
These visible waves , according to von oettingen and von Gernet , are not a picture of the process of combustion itself , but are compression-waves moving through the products of stion after the explosion is completed .
The losion itself , they say , is invisible .
Their photographs also show waves running nearly parallel with the primary waves .
These secondary waves are particularly referred to as supplying conclusive evidence that snccessive partial explosions have taken place ( starting from the electrodes ) exactly as Bunsen imagined .
In 1884 Living and Dewar showed that the flame of an explosion in a glass tube exhibited the spectral lines of sodium and of calcium , and of iron when fired in an iron tube and examined end-on .
When metallic salts were introduced in the form of powder , the correspond- ing were visible in the spectroscope .
They made the interesting observation that the red lithium line was when the explosion was made to travel towards the spectroscope , and they interpreted this to mean that the front of the advancing wave is cooler than the following part .
I have examined the spectra of many explosion-flames .
The light produced by the explosions of electrolytic gas is mainly due to particles knocked from the glass .
In the faint continuous spectrum shown by the flams the calcium lines stand out prominently .
YVhen the explosion travels first through a metal tube ioined to a glass one in which the flame is photographed , the light is more intense near the junction .
One can see the stream of luminous matter carried out of the metal tube .
The cyanogem explosions , however , give a continuous spectrum crossed by metallic lines and by the characteristic " " cyanogen lines The luminous particles , whatever their nature , follow very closely the movements of the gas in which they float .
When the spectra of the explosion-fiames were photographed ' ' end-on , \ldquo ; I have never observed any reversal of a line in the advancing flame .
Prof. H. B. Dixon .
the [ June 5 , PART II.\mdash ; Photographic of Detonation-woives and their Reflections .
[ In with E. H. STRANGE , B.Sc. , and E. GRAHAM , B.Sc. ] By throwing the image of the explosion tube on to a photographic film ( Eastman 's ) fixed to a rapidly revolving wheel , we found that the flame could be sharply photographed , and its movements analysed , without the addition of any metallic salts to the tube .
The first point noticed in the photographs were ( 1 ) the sharpness with which the luminosity is set and ( 2 ) the uniformity of the detonation-wave .
There is no evidence of any gradual heating up of the gases , but , on the contrary , the temperature appears to spring to its maximum with abrupt suddenness .
The gas ignited by the detonation ( including particles knocked off the tubes ) remains luminous for some time after the wave has passed .
Many of the photographs show very distinctly the movements of the gas en mass , as it follows up the detonation-wave , comes to rest , and swings back again .
When the detonation-wave hits the closed end of the tube it is reflected back in a distinctly marked luminous wave , remarkable for its great luminosity .
As this reflected wave back from the closed end it has at first to meet the gas moving bodily forward in the wake of the detonation-wave .
As it continues backwards ) gas it meets has less forward motion , then becomes stationary , and finally travels back in the same direction as the reflected wave .
It folIows , therefore , that the velocity of the reflected wave is at first retarded and ards increased by the motion of the medium .
The reflected wavs produced by the collision of a detonation-wave with the closed end of the tube is mainly an intense compression-wave .
The velocity of the reflection-wave may be readily compared with that of the detonation-wnve .
In the following table the avera velocities observed in several gaseous mixtures are given , the velocity of the reflected wave being taken as nearly as possible at the point where the movement of the gas itself was nil .
Although the fo1mula for the velocity of sound in gases is strictly valid for small displacements only , nevertheless it appeared of interest to calculate from the observed velocities of these reflection-waves what temperature they indicated in the gas , on the assumption that they were propagated as sound-waves .
Of course to calcuIate the temperature from the velocity of sound it is necessary to know the ratio of the specific heats , and since in the case of carbonic acid and steam this ratio is very doubtful , a corresponding uncertainty must exist in the temperature oalculated .
But in the case of cyanogen burning to carbonic oxide , the products of combustion , carbonic oxide , and nitrogen are similar to air , and their specific heats either do not alter , or do not alter greatly , with rise of temperature .
The velocity 1902 .
] of the Explosion of Gascs .
of sound in such a gas would therefore give approximation bo the temperature .
Now the velocity of the reflection-wave in cyanogen exploded with its own volume of oxygen is 1230 metres per second .
Assuming to be unaltered by rise of temperature , the velocity of sound in air at C. to be 333 metres per second , the of the gas where the reflection-wave measured is given by the formula\mdash ; .
, where is the velocity of , and and the densities of the gas and air respectively u11der the conditions .
If , on the other ha11d , we assume ( with Le Chatelier ) th the specific heat at constant volume of tomic gases rises with the temperature and becomes 7 at the temperature of this experiment , then the ratio falls to the formula becomes:\mdash ; .
In the case of cyanogen exploded with twice its oxygen , the first reaction consists in the burning of the thogen to bonic oxide , which combines more slowly to form rbouic acid .
How far this second reaction is completed wheIl the is measul.ed , it is impossible to decide .
On the assumption that the specific of nitrogen is constant , and ) is , the velocity of the the completely burnt mixturc indicates a of 4200o C. ; on the assumption that the specific heats of ) ) and 7 , the temperature indicated is C. On the other halld , if cnrbonic acid had yet been formed , the temperature indicated for the mixture of diatomic gases .
476 Prof. H. B. Dixon .
On Movements [ June 5 , In a manner the corresponding to the velocity of the -waves have been calculated for the other mixtures , ( 1 ) assuming the ratio of the specffic heats for a diatomic gas to be and for a triatomic gas , and ( 2 ) assuming the ratio of the specific heats for a diatomic gas to be , and for a triatomic gas A glance at this table reveals the fact that , whether the specific heats vary or not , but on the assumption that combustion is complete in each case , the explosion of cyanogen to carbonic oxide , which , according to all observers , gives the brightest flash , and the highest pressure , also gives ( apparently ) the coolest combustion products a short time after the explosion-wave has gone by .
The natural inference to be drawn from these figures is that in those mixtures where steam or carbonic acid , or both , are , the combustion is not complete at the moment the reflection-wave is measured .
PART III.\mdash ; On the elocity of a -wave in the Flame of Exploded Gases .
[ In conjunction with R. H. JONES , B.Sc. , and J. BOWER , B.Sc. ] The interest attaching to the determination ( even approximately ) of the temperatures produced in the explosion of gases led us to attempt the measurement of the rate of a true sound-wave ( of small displacement ) in the gases produced by the detonation-wave .
In our first experiments the glass explosion-tubs was fitted to a steel piece containing a tap of large bore , and a small -tap , and connected by a pipe to a steel bomb , in which a small charge of fulminate could be fired .
The bomb and connecting pipe were filled with air , while the tube was filled with a mixture of cyanogen with two volumes of oxygen .
The lengths of the tubes were so adjusted that the sound-wave , started in the bomb by the detonation of the fulminate , should be 1902 .
] of the Fla in the Explosion of propagated through the air and cyanogen mixture , so as to meet the detonation-wave , coming in the contrary direction before the latter reached the end of the tube .
The detonation-wave was then photographed as it met the sound-wave .
The photographs clearly show several sound-waves passing through the incandescent gases .
The rates of these sound-waves have been measured and the eorre- sponding temperatures calculated .
These values are given in Table III on the assumption that the combustion was complete .
It will be seen that the temperature calculated for the first soundwave is in close ance with that calculated from the reflection-wave in the same mixture given in Table The experiment was next Yaried by the introduction of a thin iron between the air and tho explosive mixture .
The shock transmitted through the air from the minate s the flexible plate , and so gated a wave of small displacement through the explosive mixture .
This wave had very little effect on the movements of the gas in the of the detonation-wave , but its passago through the luminous gas plainly marked .
The gases were ignited as before , the lengths of the tubes being so adjusted that the first soundwave met the detonation-wave about 1 metre from the membrane .
With the mixture three raphs were ) in which the course of the sound-waves were fairly marked .
Ths mean of several independent measurements made on each photograph as the velocity of the sound-wave in the station as 1250 metres per second .
This velocity corresponds to a temperature of a number in very fair agreement with that calculated from the reflection-waves , viz. , ( Table .
This agreement indicates that ths reflection-waves really travel with a velocity equal to that of sound .
Prof. H. B. Dixoll .
On the Novements [ June 5 , PART .\mdash ; On the Collision of Two Detonation-waves , and the Efect of Junctions in the Tubes .
[ In junction with R. H. JONES and J. BOWER .
] To study the effect produced in the collision of two waves of tion , the explosion tube ( of lead pipe ) was bifurcated into two armi , of equal length which were bent round and held the two ends of a strong glass tube , in the celltre of which the two waves met .
The joint between the lead and glass was made tight with india-rubber .
The ographs obtained with this apparatus were puzzling .
Some of the " " rebound waves\ldquo ; after the collision were much brighter and travelled ( backwards ) much faster than the detonation-waves themselves .
oreover , many photographs showed that the flame of the had been affected by some impulses causing a sudden increase in its brightness and velocity , and producing a backward wave analogous to a refiected wave ) .
The explanation of these appearances that first occurred to us was that the flame was preceded by invisible sound-waves , travelling more quickly than the flame in its initial phases that these sound-waves became visible as soon as they met the flame moving towards them in the opposite direction ( as in our previous experiments on sound-waves ) , and that , on the other hand , the visible flame meeting the sound-wave was affected by the sudden increase of pressure , and continued its journey with greater speed and luminosity .
This explanation was at once destroyed when we found similar impulses in a flame which was sent through the apparatus in one direction only .
It next occurred to us that these impulses might be due to the explosion catching its own sound-waves .
If sound-waves are propagated through the gas from the point of ignition , the flame might lag behind the sound-waves at first and catch them after a run more or less prolonged .
The sound-waves when overtaken might cause reflected sourld-witves ( made visible in the luminous gases ) , and the explosion itself might become more intense owing to the collision .
Many experiments were undertaken to verify or disprove this hypothesis ; but finally it was found that the explosion was affected as it passed through the junctions between the lead and the glass , and the " " impulses\ldquo ; recorded in our photographs were due to the detonation-wave , damped down at the jullction , being regenerated by fits and starts : The flame is not retarded by turning round a corner , even lvhen that is a sharp angle , nor is it damped down when the connecting junction is made of stout flexible rubber .
After many trials we found that the only thing which mattered was the rigidity with which the glass and metal were connected together .
Any packing ( such as 1902 .
] of th Ilamc the Explos of Gase 479 rubber ) which gave to a shock caused a retardation ; when the glass was firmly cemented to the metal no retardation occurred .
The anomalies met with in our collision experiments were thus accounted for , the examination of collisions between true detonation-waves was proceeded with .
When two detonation-waves come into collision the tube remains brightly luminous at the point of contact for some time , and two reflected waves are sent backwards with velocities which increase at first , owing to the movement of the gas through which they are propagated .
A oomparison of all the photographs shows that the gases are more lumillOUS after a collision thaIl when the explosion-wave strikes a flat su1face of metal fastened at the end of the tube .
The reflected waves in the two cases are similar in character , but .
the reflection generated by collision with another detonation-wave seems always to travel slightly faster .
If we were dealing only with waves produced me- chanically , the reflected waves would be exact copies of the incident waves with velocities reversed\mdash ; in both cases .
But in the detonationwave we have chemical as well as mechanical action , while the reflected wave is mainly mechanical .
1Ve expect therefore the reflected waves to travel more slowly than the incident waves , but we should also expect the reflected waves to travel with the same velocity whether they were produced by collision with a rigid diaphragm or with a similar and equal wave travelling in the }posite direction\mdash ; nnl there was some chemical involved in the two kinds of cof Our photographs have shown that the wave of detonation has certain characteristics by which it may readily be recognised:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) It starts suddenly , throwing back a strongly luminous wave through the burning g , and ving a dark space where it started .
( 2 .
) It travels with constant velocity unless it traverses a junction not rigidly .
after being mped down by such an obstacle it recoups itseIf and a starts with abruptness .
( 3 .
) On collision with a similar detonation-ll-ave moving in the opposite , or with a rigid diaphragm , it sends back a reflected wave not so rapid as itself , and as a rule not so luminous .
In the case of the more luminolls explosions , those of cyanogen , acetylene , and carbon disulphide mixtures , the reflected waves were less luminous than the detonation-wave ; but in ) cass of the less luminous explosions , , those of hydrogen and carbonic oxide , which depend largely for their light on the particles detached from the tnbes , the waves reflected from a collisio1l were sometimes more lumlnous than the detonation-waves themselves .
Prof. H. B. Dixon .
On the Illovements [ June 5 , PART the Initiation of ihe Deitmation-wave and on the Wave of etonation .
[ In conjunction with B. H. J. BOWER .
] Our photographs show abrupt changes in the acceleration of the explosion before the final spring which marks the detonation-wave .
These sudden changes are accompanied by a luminous wave thrown back through the ignited gases .
The strongly luminous wave thrown baok from the point where the detonation is started we call the " " Retonation-wave.\ldquo ; A study of a number of photographs leads to the conclusion that the retonation is faster and more luminous when no other bright waves have been thrown ) by the advancing flame before the point of detonation is reached .
The collision of two flames , in which detonation had not yet been determined , gave rise to reflected waves more rapid and more luminous than the incident waves .
Now these reflected waves could not owe their increased velocity to the mechanical impact , which could only resuIt in the reflected waves being copies of the incident waves .
It is evident then that chemical action must occur to assist these reflected waves , and , therefore , the combustion is obviously not complete when these waves return .
From this it would appear probable that the period before the detonation is distinguished not only by a slower propagation of the flame , i.e. , of igmtion , but also by a slower process of combustion .
At the point of detonation the rapid rise of pressure produces not only the forward wave\mdash ; that of detonation\mdash ; but also a backward wave of compression into the gases slowly burning behind it .
This compression-wave must the temperature of the ignited gases and quicken the residual burning ; its propagation would thus be analogous to that of the detonation-wave , but modified by the extent to which the slow combustion had proceeded .
The retollation-wave attains its greatest rapidity and brightness when it is developed at the closed end of a tube , i.e. , when the gas is fired at such a distance from the closed end that the explosion , gradually increasing in intensity , just reaches the dstonation point as it arrives at the stopper .
Under such conditions the reflected wave is superposed on the wave of retonation , and the result is a wave which cannot be distinguished from a detonation-wave .
As regards the dark space formed at the point where the detonation- and retonation-waves originate , it is no doubt a space of cooler gas .
It persists for some time , and its damping effect on the passage of collision- waves can be observed in several of the photographs .
1902 .
] of the Flame in the of Gases .
PART \mdash ; On the Initi of the losion .
[ In conjunction with R. H. JONES and J. BOWH : R. ] As several of our photographs had that the flame in the period of acceleration was overtaken by a more pidly moving wave , we photographed the beginning of an explosion of cyanogen with oxygen , and found that the ight flame .
overtook the primary flame came froj ) th ( ' end of the firing .
The " " kickoff\ldquo ; which the explosion gets from the closed end , apparently enables the reflected wave to overtake the wave of combustion .
When the gases are fired by means of wires jnst penetrating the stopper closing the end of the , the explosion proceeds more slowly , and without bance by aIly sudden changes of acceleration until at Iast the point of detonation is reached .
The photographs of these explosions are marked contrast to those taken the firing wires were 3 inches from the end of the tube .
In the less rapid explosions it is seen that the flame does not travel direct to the near end of the tube , but while still a short distance from it recedes and again approaches with an oscillatory motion , which is repeated before the flame finally reaches the end of the tube .
From the point where the flame is checked a lumlnous wave seen running back and overtaking the flame , which at this point acquires greater ) rightnessaIld velocity .
From the polIlt of collision where the fastcr overtakes the Qlolver flame , reflection is throw1t back to the near end of the tube herc it is again reflected .
Now when an explosive mixture is fired by a , the suddenly ignited gases must expand and tl.ansmit a compression-wave in both directions .
This travels with the velocity of sound in the umburnt gas , and will be reflocted from the eIld of the tube .
The propagation of the flame the firing point is , in most gassous mixtures , less rapid than velocity of sound in the Utll)urnt gas , but the .
rate of propagation of the flame augments much more rapidly 1n some mixtures than in others .
If the tube is a long one the flame will overtake the sound-wave after a or less prolonged chase , according to the nature of the mixture .
But if the tube is short the sound- vave may reach the end of the tube and return as reflected wave the flame , lvhich is still advancing .
Our measurements show this to be the origin of the " " retur1l-wave\ldquo ; from the end of the tube .
When gases are fired in the celltre of a long tube the phenomena of explosion are simple ; wheIl they are fired in the centre of a short tube , the sound-waves generated reach the eIld of the tube before the flames , and the impact of their reflections the flames produces cross-waves of great intricacy } Prof. H. B. ) ixon .
On the Movements [ June 5 , PART \mdash ; Further on the Initial Phases .
[ In conjunction with B. DAWSON , B.Sc. , and L. BRADSHAW , B.Sc. ] 1 .
Le Chatelier 's pothesis of Discontinuity in the Explosion .
Iany photographs show a peculiarity at the point where a less luminous line is succeeded abruptly by a more luminous one .
The lines photographed do not appear ontinuons , but the more luminous line appears to start from a point not yet reached by the less luminous one .
The point of collision also of two waves appears to project in front of the waves which are meeting .
It appeared to me at first as if these appearances be to invisible waves advancing in front oi the visible ones , but as I found that they only showed where the luminosity of the lines was in marked contrast , and disappeared entirely when the films were not sensitive , or the contrast of luminosity was diminished , I came to the conclusion that the effect was due to halation on the photograph , the brighter being enlarged .
But in 1890 Le Chatelier , relying on the same kind of evidence , put forward the view that the wave of detonation starts front of the variable wave ( which is increasing in velocity ) , and originates in an invisible wave which is proceeding in front of the visible wave , and with a veIocity equal to it .
This definite judgment of the rench expe1imenter compelled us to -examine the question .
We attempted at first to decids the matter photographing an explosion as it passed from a less luminous mixturc into a more luminous ons ; but we could not succeed making the transition sufficiently sudden .
We did , however , succeed in obtaining suddeli changes of brightness by introducing a layer of ' ' Welsbach\ldquo ; saIts ( a mixturs of thoria and ceria ) , and having the rest of the tube quite clean .
Although to raise the salt from the glass and to render it incandescent must take some time , nevertheless the photograph shows a small but distinct break in the line of detonation similar to that in question .
It is , of course , easy to show the enlargement due to brightness .
If a tube is filled with a mixture giving a luminous explosion , and the explosion is photographed while half the tube is covered over ; and if the tube is then filled with a mixture giving a less luminous explosion , which is photographed on the same film while the first half of the tube is covered , a photograph is obtained which shows a greater discontinuity than any of those in question .
Another way of showing the same thing is to photograph a thin platinum wire stretched by weights , and lered luminous by electric current .
If a second wire is brought to touch the first so as to divide the current , the portion of the wire which carries the whole current is more luminous than the other portion , and the photographs make it appear of far greater diameter .
1902 .
] of the of evidence against 's view thus be summarised:\mdash ; 1 .
Its supposed effect is only seen when the strong , and not on photographs of the })henomcna in the are not out .
2 .
It can be initiated } means of asts .
3 .
The same effect is seen in the collision of vaves , but Le Chatelier does not ) the " " \ldquo ; oan precede the detonation .
2 .
tition ( The very short time required fo the explosion in eleetrolytic gas to raise the Welsbach oxides to ndesoence was evidence against the vie held by Octtillgen Gernet , , that the detonation of electrolytic gas is that the lts present in their experiments only became after the been for some time completo .
Our ) eviotlS e ) eriments h shown conthat the detonation is 1lot llp , but only after fl me has rum some distance hich v with the nature of the mixture and the position of the .
But to place the matter beyond all doubt we have repeated their experiments , using a tube of the same size and ction as theirs filled with electrolytic gas , ) the addition of any .
By careful development the course of the flame can be seen on the from the wire .
In all cases the explosion ) egins slowly slight inosity until the vaves are rted by rsflection from the eIlds of the tnbe .
Sonlc of our cIosely rese ) in detail those published by Oettingen and Gernet , but they show the initial movements of the which arc lacking in their reflections of the often run nearly parallel , but the stronger wave usually tches the weaker and coalesces it .
photographs clear ' ' secondary\ldquo ; unning p " " \ldquo ; tves m be produced from a ] explosion in tube .

