January 22 , 1852 .
DR. DAUBENY , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled:- " Researches on the Geometrical Properties of Elliptic Integrals .
" By the Rev. James Booth , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received November 17 , 1851 .
In this paper the author proposes to investigate the true geometrical basis of that entire class of algebraical expressions , knownto mathematicians as elliptic functions or integrals .
He sets out by showing what had already been done in this department of the subject by preceding geometerso That the elliptic integral of the second order represented an arc of a plane ellipse , was evident from the beginning .
Hence indeed the name " elliptic functions , " derived from a part , was given to the whole .
Here then the question naturally arose : What geometrical types did the first and third orders represent ?
This question long remained without complete , solution ; and investigators in this department of analysis were compelled to take the fundamental expressions as arbitrary data , and to forgo the inquiry what the geometrical theorems were which these algebraical expressions represented .
Various but unsuccessful attempts were made by geometers to represent them by qiuidratures , or by plane curves , either algebraical or transcendental .
About ten years ago , however , Messrs. Guderman and Catalan showed that the circular form of the third order represented the curve of intersection of a cone of the second degree and a concentric sphere ; but they did not extend their researches to the first order , nor to the logarithmic form of the third .
a The main object of the paper is to prove that ellipticintegrals of every kind , the parameter taking any value whatever between positive and negative infinity , represent the intersections of surfaces of the second order .
These surfaces divide themselves into two classes , of which the sphere and the paraboloid are the respective types ; from the former arise the circular functions of the third order , from the other the logarithmic and exponential .
In the course of these investigations it is shown that the formule for the comparison of elliptic integrals , which are given by Legendre , follow simply as geometrical inferences from the fundamental properties of those curves .
The ordinary conic sections are merely particular cases of those more general curves , to which the author has given the name Hyperconic Sections .
The author remarks , that it will doubtless appear not a little singular , that the principal properties of these functions , their classification , their transformations , the comparison of elliptic integrals of the third order , with conjugate or reciprocal parameters , were all investigated and developed before geometers had any idea of the true geometrical origin of those functions .
It is as if the formulae of common trigonometry had been derived from an algebraical definition , before the geometrical conception of the circle had been admitted .
As trigonometry may be defined , the development of the properties of circular arcs , whether described on a plane , or on the surface of a sphere , so this higher trigonometry , or the theory of elliptic integrals , may be defined as the development of the relations which exist between the arcs of hyperconic sections .
It may be said , we cannot by this method derive any properties of elliptic integrals which may not algebraically be deduced from the fundamental expressions appropriately assumed .
It cannot , however , be truly asserted that the properties of curve lines should be developed without any reference to their geometrical types .
We might , starting from certain algebraical expressions , derive every known property of curve lines , without having in any instance a conception of the geometrical types which they represent .
The theory of elliptic integrals was developed by a method the inverse of that pursued in establishing the formulxe of common trigonometry .
In the latter case , the geometrical type was given the circle-to determine the algebraical relations of its arcs .
In the theory of elliptic integrals , the relations of the arcs of unknown curves are given , to determine the curves themselves ; this is the principal object of the -present communication .
The problem resolves itself into twelve distinct cases , depending on the magnitude of the parameter , and the sign with which it is affected ; out of the discussion of these cases arise many new and important relations of elliptic integrals .
It would excite little interest to give the bare enunciations of those theorems , and a mere outline of the methods by which they are established would be unintelligible .
Not the least interesting of those theorems is the proposition , that it is always possible to express an elliptic integral of the first order as the sum of two elliptic integrals of the third order , with parameters which are conjugate , reciprocal and imaginary .
The author hopes , in a future communication to the Royal Society , the present having grown under his hands beyond the limits he anticipated-among other points , to extend his researches to the case of elliptic integrals with imaginary parameters , and to show the true geometrical meaning of such expressions .
It will also be shown , that imaginary expressions may be found for a logarithmic elliptic arc analogous to the well-known imaginary exponential expressions for the sines and cosines of circular arcs .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " Further Researches into theStructure , Development and Functions of the Liver .
" By C. Handfield Jones , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 19 , 1851 .

