" On the Gas Voltaic Battery .
Voltaic Action of Phosphorus , Sulphur , and Hydrocarbons .
" By William Robert Grove , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , V.P.R.I. , Professor of Experimental Philosophy at the London Institution .
The author , referring to a paper of his published in the Philosophical , Transactions for 1843 , states , that in repeating and verifying some of the experiments therein contained , he was led to those which form the subject of the present memoir .
With the form of gas battery last described in that paper , by which the interfering action of the external air is excluded , he finds that deutoxide of nitrogen associated with oxygen gives a continuous voltaic current ; and that the volumes respectively absorbed by the electrolyte are as four to one , indicating the formation of hyponitrous acid .
Passing to the more immediate object of the present paper , he states that having observed nitrogen procured by the combustion of phosphorus to give rise , in the gas battery , to a temporary voltaic current , he was led to believe that phosphorus , although an insoluble non-conductor , might , by means of the gas battery , be made the excitant of a continuous voltaic current , analogous to the zinc element of an ordinary voltaic combination .
This expectation was verified by experiments , a series of which is given ; phosphorus being suspended in various gases and voltaically associated with oxygen .
The experiments were continued during several months , and the results indicated the same consumption of phosphorus with reference to the oxygen , as would occur by the formation of phosphorous acid ; the phosphorus being thus burned by oxygen at a distance .
Phosphorus and iodine , both non-conducting solids , being each suspended in nitrogen in the associated tubes of a gas battery , give a continuous voltaic current , and are consumed in equivalent ratios .
Sulphur , suspended in nitrogen and associated with oxygen , gives a voltaic current when fused .
Other volatile electro-positive bodies , such as camphor , essential oils , ather and alcohol , when , placed in nitrogen and associated with oxygen , gave a continuous voltaic current .
The author observes that the.gas battery , which in his former experiments introduced gases , by the present experiments renders solid and liquid insoluble non-conductors the exciting constituents of voltaic combinations , and enables us to ascertain their electro-chemical relations : it also introduces the galvanometer as a test of vaporization .
A new form of gas battery is described , in which an indefinite number of cells are charged by the hydrogen evolved from a single piece of zinc ; the oxygen of the atmosphere supplying the electronegative element .
The charge of the battery is self-sustained , in a manner somewhat similar to the Doebereiner light apparatus .

