]\gt ; Mr. G. W. Walker .
On the Drift produced in " " On the Drift produced in Ions by Electromagnetic and a heory of -activity.\ldquo ; By W. M.A. , A.RC .
Sc. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Lecturer on Physics in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor A. GRAY , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1904 , \mdash ; Read January , 1905 .
Some time ago I showed* how the equations of motion of a free ion mder the influence of a harmonic train of plane waves might be completely integrated , subject to the restriction that the viscous effect of radiation from the ion may be neglected .
The equations are closely analogous to tbose for a simple pendulum , and by following out the analogy in the case where the pendulum makes complete revolutions , it is easy to show that while the passage of a complete wave restores the initial velocities of the ion , its position in space is altered .
This change of position cannot be accounted for entirely by the change due to velocity which the ion may be assumed to possess before the wave reaches it .
The continuancs of the waves thus involves the result that the ion must continue to change its position in space .
It will thus appear to move in a definite manner which can be determined in terms of the initial circumstances of the ion and the constants of the train of waves .
The result is very remarkable , and is not confined to an infinite train of harmonic waves .
Similar results follow in the case of any form of electro-magnetic disturbance propagated in a straight line .
I propose here to discuss the case of a plane polarised disturbance propagated in a straight line .
Let the electric force be where is the velocity and the direction of propagation .
Associated with this we must have a magnetic force in a direction at right angles to that of X. If be the inertia and the charge of the ion , the equations of motion may be written , We may thus confine attention to the motion in the plane .
Wo have . . .
* ' Roy .
Soc. , vol. 69 , p. 394 ; .
Mag 1903 , vol. 6 , p. 637 .
Ions by Electromagnetic Disturbances , etc. 415 If we take a moving origin so that , then will be the distance of the ion from a plane moving with the disturbance , and reckoned positive in the direction from which the waves come .
The $ equations then take the form .
Thus in general const .
is an integral ; it indicates that the energy of the ion relative to the moving origin is constant .
We also get where is a constant , We may note that if the disturbance is such that then the inal value of is restored , when , and hence also the original values of or on account of the equation of energy .
Let us now take a simple case so that from to and thereafter let the form of disturbance recur .
From to , we have Hence ; and where and are the initial values of and We also get Thus during the first pulse the describes a circle centre 416 Mr. G. W. Walker .
On the Drift in [ Dec. radius , with angular velocity It will leave the first pulse with velocity given by describe a straight line until it reaches the second pulse .
During the passage through the- second pulse we have ' ; so that FIG. l.\mdash ; Diagram to illustrate the path of the ion .
and 3.\mdash ; Diagrams to illustrata the path of the ion when Case I. Case II .
V. lons by , etc. 417 Thus the ion will describe a circle of the same radius as before with : same angular velocity , but the curvature is now in the opposite flirection and the centre is different .
The ion leaves the second pulse with velocity , and proceeds in a straight line .
The path is aehown in the diagram ( 1 ) .
We now calculate the time taken to travel from to nd also the displacement .
The simple character of the path enables .
: us to do this easily .
If we denote by , the time , , is given by Now , .
Hence the displacement of the ion from its original position , in the direction of the waves , is .
The displacement in the direction of is ' Let us now consider two particular cases .
Case I.\mdash ; The ion was originally at rest .
Hence and Neglecting and higher terms , we get . . .
Thus , if the impulses recur , the ion will appear to travel in space with velocities which are approximately and It will thus appear to drift on in the direction of the waves .
* These are also the mean values of the true velocities and during a complete pulse .
I wish to emphasize the fact that if we could observe the ion just as it leaves the puIse it will again be at rest if it was initially at rest , but its position altered .
I shall therefore refer to these as apparent velocitit , s. .
Energy will be definitely abstracted from the pulses and radiated @wway from the ion .
In this case the passage of a complete puIse no tores the original velocities unless the energy absorbed by he ions is radiated away before the pulse has passed .
This will not , in eneral , be the case .
Hence , even if tion be taken into account , here must still be a drifting of the ions .
Indeed , the general effect of have cpparent vocities .
regard a radio-active substance as the orlgln of electro-magnetic disturbances radiated outwards .
These may ionise the gas in the immediate vicinity of the substance , and we shall then have a streaming 1 of positive and negative ions and probably also of neutral molecules , both outwards from the substance and inwards to it .
This view is .
quite in agreement with the apparently.material character of part of the radiations ( indeed it would explain it ) , but it does not require the supposition that there is a continual diminution of the radio-active 8 wbstance . .
The question arises whether the velocities set up in the ions are of 8 : the orde ] that experiment indicates .
If the impulses radiated are set up by collisions ot ions in the active substance , it appears to me that at produced by the waves seems to lead to the conclusion that tk propagation of the waves is no longer independent of the statioal electric and magnetic field , and aberration must result .
In conclusion , I wish to express my great obligation to Professor Gray , who has discussed these esults with me and read the paper with very care .
[ Note added Jamuxry 30.\mdash ; Lord Kelvin has expressed the view that a radio-active body may in some way extract energy from the aether and again radiate it .
Professor and NIadame Curie have also suggested possible abstraction from the rounding gas .
The results obtained here support such views and indicate in some measure how such $ process of selection may go on .
] " " On the Ultra-Violet Spectrum of Gadolinium.\ldquo ; * By Sir WILLIAM CROOKES , D.Sc .
, .
Received December 8 , \mdash ; Read December 15 , 1904 .
Gadolininm oxide is a rare sarth , occurring between yttrium and amarium .
It was discovered in 1880 by Iarignac , and was at first called by him , a designation which he soon changed for gadolinium .
Sin ce Marignac 's time much work has been done on this earth by Lecoq de Boisbaudran , Bettendorf , Cleve , Benedicks , Marc , Exner and Haschek , Urbain , and others .
In the spring of this year , M. G. Urbain gave me some gadolinis and other rare earths , which he had prepared in a state of considerable purity by means of a novel system of fractionation in which use is made of the crystallisation of double nitrates of bismuth and magnesium with the rars earth nitrates .
He finds that bismuth tces itself between the ceric and the terbic groups , thus sharply separating amarium , the last member of the ceric group , from europium and gadolinium , the first members of the terbic groups .
I have for soms time past been fractionating rare earths by Urbain 's method , and can quite corroborate what he says .
The uItra-violet spectrum of gadolinium has been measured by Exner and Haschek , who published their results in a book , A plate of the speotrum to which this communioation refers will , it is hoped , be published in another place .
]

