" Description of the Cavern of Bruniquel , and its Organic Contents .
-Part I. Human Remains .
" By Professor RICHARD OWEN , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received May 12 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author gives an account of the Cavern of Bruniquel , Department of the Tarn and Garonne , France , in the state which it presented when visited by him in January 1864 , and a description of the human remains discovered therein by the proprietor , the Yicomte de Lastic St. Jal , in 1863 , and subsequently by the author in January 1864 .
The circumstances under which these discoveries were made are minutely detailed , and the contemporaneity of the human remains with those of the extinct and other animals with which they are associated , together with the flint and bone implements , is shown by the evidences of the plastic condition of the calcified mud of the breccia at the time of interment , by the chemical constitution of the human bones , corresponding with that of the other animal remains , and by the similarity of their position and relations in the surrounding breccia .
Among the principal remains of the men of the flint-period described are the following:st , the hinder portion of the cranium , with several other parts of the same skeleton , which were so situated in their matrix as to indicate that the body had been inter ( d in a crouching posture , and that , after decomposition and dissolution of the soft parts , the skeleton had yielded to the superincumbent weight ; 2nd , an almost entire calvarium , which is described and compared with different types of the human skull , shown to be superior in form and capacity to the Australian type , and more closely to correspond with the Celtic type , though proportionally shorter than the modern Celtic , and the form exhibited by the Celtic cranium from Engis , Switzerland ; 3rd , jaws and teeth of individuals of different ages .
After noticing other smaller portions of human cranium , the author proceeds to describe minutely the lower jaw and teeth of an adult , and upper and lower jaws of immature individuals , showing the characters of certain deciduous teeth .
The proportions of the molars are not those of the Australian , but of other races , and especially those of ancient and modern Europeans .
As in most primitive or early races in which mastication was little helped by arts of cookerv or by various and refined kinds of food , the crowns of the molars , especially of m 1 , are worn down beyond the enamel , flat and smooth to the stumps , exposing there a central tr , aMct of osteodentine without any sign of decay .
The paper is illustrated by a view and plans of the cavern , and by figures of the principal human remains , and of two implements of bonle on which the Vicomte de Lastic had discovered , on removal of the breccia , outline figures of the head of a reindeer and the head of a horse in profilel The descriptioni of the various remains of the animals killed for food , and of the flintand bone-implements applied to that and other purposes , will be the subject of a future communication .

