l ~2 P ~3 ~~lR L ~3 M ll ~2 2 CPN l VII .
Remarks upon a supposed Demonstration , that the moving Forces of the same Body are not as the Velocities , but as the Squares of the Velocities , By the same .
THE Demonstration runs thus : ` ` Concipio cor pus C Fig.7 .
moveri oblique in elastrum L , velocitate CL ut 2 , angulo inclinationis CLP existente ~0 gr. cujus nempe sinus CP est semissis radii C L. Suppono autem eam esse resistentiam in elastro , ut ad illud tendendum requiratur praecise unus velocitatis gradus in illo corpore , si perpendiculariter impingeret .
Quid ergo jam siet post incursionem obliquam corporis C in elastrum L ?
quoniam motus per CL componitur , ut notum est , ex duobus collateralibus per CP &amp; P L , &amp; cum C P , secundum quam corpus direct impingit in elastrum L , exprimit dimidiam celeritatem corporis per C L , consumetur hic motus per C P , tenso elastro ( perinde enim esset , ac si corpus C celeritate CP perpendiculariter incurreret in elastrum , quod per Hypothesin , eam celeritatem destruere posset ) remanente corporis celeritate , &amp; directione P L. Producta igitur PL in M , ita ut LM sit =PL=~3 ( ponitur enim CL = 2 ) &amp; applicato in M aho simili elastro faciente cum LM angulum LM Q , cujus sinus L Q=CP= 1 , per eandem rationem manifestum est corpus C , post tensionem elastri L , tensurum esse elastrum M , amisso motu per L Q , &amp; servato motu per Q M. Prolongata itaque QM ad N , ut fiat MN=QM =~2 ibique substituto elastro simili tertio constituente cum MN angulum MNR semirectum , quo scilicet MR iterum sit =CP= 1 ; patet similiter motum per MR totum impendi in tensionem elastri N , corpore interim moveri pergente directione &amp; celeritate R N=1 .
Denique si hac celeritate residua impingat perpendiculariter in elastrum O , huic tendendo totam suam vim reliquam dabit ; ipsum itaque corpus ad quietem redigetur .
Hisce ita praemissis , patet nunc potentiam corporis C tantam fuisse , ut per se solum tender possit praecise quatuor elastra talia , ad quae singula seorsim tendenda requiritur dimidia velocitas corporis aequalis ipsi C , adeoque cum effectus illius quadruplo major sit quam effectus hujus , evidens est quoque vim corporis velocitate 2 grad quadruplam esse vis corporis ejusdem , vel aequalis , velocitate 1 grad .
Haud absimili modo demonstrarem corpus C velocitate 3 grad tender posse 9 elastra , ad quorum unum tendendum unus velocitatis gradus in eo corpore requiritur , &amp; tandem in genere numerum elastrorum tensorum semper esse quadratum numeri graduum velocitatis .
Unde igitur sequetur , vires corporum aequalium esse in duplicata ratione celeritatum .
Q E. D. 1 .
This Argument is sounded entirely on the commonly received Doctrine of the Composition and Resolution of Forces , and not upon any decisive Experiments , that have been actually made upon this occasion .
2 .
All that is proved from this Doctrine , is , that a Body moving with two Degrees of Velocity , may be made to bend 4 ; with 3 Degrees of Velocity it may be made to bend 9 similar Springs , each destroying one Degree of Velocity in a perpendicular Direction , besore its sorce is entirely spent , provided you take care to alter the Directions of the Motion in every Stroke but the last , after a certain manner : That had the same Body moved but with one degree of Velocity in one Direction , and that in a perpendicular one , it would have lost all its force at once , and bent but one of those Springs : Which is far from proving the thing in Question .
3 .
To make the Reasoning on this Head conclusive , the two Bodies should not only be equal in Quantity of Matter , but alike in that material Circumstance the Direction of their Motions ; so that if one of the Bodies move in a perpendicular Direction , the other should do so too ; or if the one strikes in an oblique Direction , the other should do the same , and that in the same degree of Obliquity ; and lastly , if one moves in several Directions , the other should do the same .
But in the case besore us one is supposed to move but in one Direction perpendicularly , and the other to move in three oblique Directions , and but one perpendicular .
4 .
Let therefore the same Body move always in the same Directions , and with a small Alteration , the Argument used in this Demonstration will be so far from proving that side only of the Question for which it was brought , that it will equally serve to prove the truth of the other , namely , that the Forces of the same Body moving with different Velocities are as those Velocities .
Let therefore the same Body , instead of moving with two Degrees of Velocity , move but with one , and in the same Directions as above ; only let the Springs be capable of destroying but half a Degree of Velocity in a perpendicular Direction ; then by the same steps of reasoning it will follow , that this Body will now also bend 4 similar Springs , before its Force is spent ; so that the same Body moving with half the Velocities , and in the same Directions as besore , bends the same number of Springs ; only now the Springs make but half the Resistance , that the Springs in the former case made ; therefore the Effect in this case , according to our way of estimating an Efsect , is but half the former Effect ; consequently the Forces producing these Effects are as 2 to 1 ; But in this Rativ are the Velocities , with which the Body moved in the two Cases ; therefore the Forces are as the Velocities .
Let the Body move with 3 degrees of Velocity , and it will bend 9 similar Springs each destroying one Degree of Velocity in a perpendicular Direction , before the whole Force is consumed .
So also by the same way of arguing , it is as certain , that if the same Body move with one degree of Velocity , it will bend 9 similar Springs , each destroying a third part of one Degree of Velocity in a perpendicular Direction , before its Force is extinguished : So that still the Effects , or Resistances overcome in the same Directions , are , according to our way of computing , as 3 to 1 ; and so also their Forces must be but in the same Ratio of 3 to 1 , as were the Velocities ; consequently the Forces are as the Velocities .
5 .
Since therefore this Proof drawn from the Doctrine of Composition and Resolution of Forces equally proves both sides of the Question , it proves too much , or in reality nothing at all ; and is therefore far from deserving the Name of a Demonstration .

