1902 .
] Chemical Change , Electrical Conduction in Cases , etc. 99 mine phenol phthalein as indicator .
In Experiment 7 the solution wls mixed with excess of caustic soda before warming it to decompose the per-salts , and the excess was subsequently determined .
No hydrogen peroxide was present except in solution 5 , in which case the amount was determined by permanganate and allowed for .
The following are the results obtained in terms of decmormal solutions:\#151 ; Caro 's acid .
Perdisulphuric acid .
Acid liberated .
Pound .
Calculated .
I ... .
41 '54 1-05 22-1 21-8 II 38-8 5-91 26*6 25-3 Ill ... .
35*0 2-77 20-2 20-3 IY 39-24 2-24 21-3 21-8 Y 37-3 1-56 21-5 20-2 VI ... .
49-8 3-43 28-7 28-3 VIII ... .
23-3 0-71 12-2 12-4 \#171 ; The Conditions determinative of Chemical Change and of Electrical Conduction in Gases , and on the Phenomena of Luminosity .
" By Henry E. Armstrong , Y.P.B.S. Keceived March 13 , \#151 ; Bead May 1,1902 .
In his communication to the Chemical Society on the union of oxygen and hydrogen , read at the meeting on February 19 , * Mr. H. Brereton Baker has added another to his brilliant series of proofs that interactions supposed to take place between two substances are in reality of a more complex character ; and having successfully demonstrated , in the case of the gases referred to , that water alone does not determine the interaction , he has , I believe , carried the investigation to the final stage which it was essential it should reach to make it a complete discovery of the nature of the process .
Mr. Baker has shown that when a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen [ most carefully prepared by electrolysing a solution of barium hydrate ] is enclosed in a chamber of hard Jena glass [ cleansed in the most careful manner possible ] , and the mixture is dried as thoroughly as may be [ by means of phosphoric anhydride which has been carefully purified by distilling it in a current of air ] , no appreciable interaction takes place between the gases , even on heating the tube to redness .
If the drying be not carried too far , however , water is gradually but very slowly formed\#151 ; finally in sufficient quantity to be visible : and yet , even when water is visibly present , no explosion takes place .
The interpretation I would give of these observations is as follows .
* ( Chem. Soc. Proc. , ' 1902 , p. 40 .
100 Prof. H. E. Armstrong .
On Chemical Change , [ Mar. 13 , The amount of impurity present in the gases being reduced to a minimum , i.e. , the gases being almost dry and almost free from impurities which in admixture with water constitute a conducting , change takes place at a very slow rate when heat is applied ; and even when a considerable amount of water is present , the amount of associated impurity is too small to raise the conductivity\#151 ; the rate of formation of conducting systems\#151 ; to a point at which the rate of change would be such as to give rise to an explosive wave .
As defining the conditions which it has long been my opinion are necessary to the occurrence of chemical change in gases and generally , I may refer to words used by me in 1893* I venture to call attention to them , not because I have any particular wish to put forward a claim on my own behalf but in the hope of attracting attention to a subject of surpassing importance , which both chemists and physicists have hitherto most strangely neglected to consider in all its hearings .
* " Eight years ago , in the course of the discussion on Mr. H. B. Baker 's communication on " Combustion in Dried Cases " ( these ' Proceedings , * 1885 , 40 ) , I defined chemical action as reversed electroin other words/ in order that chemical action may take place , it is essential that the system operated on comprise an electrolyte .
I then pointed out that as neither hydrogen nor oxygen was an electrolyte , a mixture of only these two gases should not be explosive ; and , moreover , that as water was not an electrolyte , and it was scarcely probable that water and [ either ] oxygen or hydrogen would form an electrolyte , it was difficult to understand how the presence of water pure and simple should be of influence in the case of a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen .
This forecast has since been verified , the remarkable series of experiments carried out by ~V .
Meyer in conjunction with Krause and Askenasy having clearly demonstrated that the formation of water from hydrogen and oxygen takes place at an irregular rate , and is , therefore , dependent on the presence of a something other than water\#151 ; I imagine an acid impurity .
But this is a consideration which has not yet received the proper attention , and it is , therefore , desirable to emphasise its importance by reference to other cases .
Mr. Baker 's recent preliminary note on the influence of moisture in piomoting chemical action { ante , p. 229 ) affords several interesting examples:\#151 ; Thus , he states that neither does hydrogen chloride combine with ammonia nor is nitric oxide oxidised by oxygen if moisture be excluded .
In the former case , the addition of water should suffice to determine the combination , as water and hydrogen chloride together form a ' composite electrolyte ' ( cf. Roy .
Soc. Proc./ 1886 , No. 243 , p. 268 ) ; as neither nitric oxide nor oxygen , however , forms a composite electrolyte with water , in this case water alone should not determine the occurrence of change\#151 ; but if by the introduction of a trace of * impurity ' in addition to water the presence of a composite electrolyte were secured ( however high its resistance , owing to the smallness of the amount of ' impurity ' ) , action would set in , and when once commenced would proceed at an increasing rate , as nitric acid would be formed and the resistance of the electrolyte would consequently diminish .
On this account it will be a task of exceeding difficulty to demonstrate experimentally that nitric oxide and oxygen are inactive in presence of water alone ; but there can be no doubt that such must eventually be admitted to be the case , provided always that it is permissible to extrapolate Kohlrausch 's observations and to conclude from them that pure water is a dielectric."\#151 ; ' Chem. Soc. Proc. , ' 1893 , 145 .
1902 ] Electrical Conduction in Gases , and Luminosity .
101 Tin his complete paper , * Mr. Baker states that he found that hydrogen and oxygen did not interact when subjected to the influence of a coil of thin silver wire heated by an electric current to the melting point of the silver , that is to say , above 1000 ' ; but that when a similar platinum coil was heated in the dried gaseous mixture an explosion occurred just after the wire became visibly red .
Doubtless , in the latter case , the surface over which interaction extended was sufficiently large to raise the velocity of change to the explosive rate , owing to the condensing effect exercised by the platinum ; and the silver had no effect because it is destitute of the power which platinum possesses in so high a degree of attracting gases and of acting as a catalyst . .
T In making this statement , I wish it to be understood that 1 assume that platinum per se would be without effect .
I feel almost confident , in fact , that if they could be dealt with , even free atoms would not associate in the absence of a composite electrolyte , as it appears to me probable that at least one function of the composite electrolyte is to provide the " mechanism " by means of which the energy of chemical change is frittered away .
Ostwald , in his lecture on Catalysis ( an English translation of this is to be found in ' Nature , ' April 3 , 1902 ) , defines a catalyst as any substance which alters the velocity of a chemical action without appearing in the final product .
I conceive , however , that the catalyst determines the interchange from its beginning .
I have discussed a number of " catalytic " phenomena including those of fermentation and of the dissolution of metals in nitric acid\#151 ; in the address referred to later on.\#151 ; , added May 2 .
] It appears to me that Brereton Baker 's results lead to far-reaching consequences\#151 ; that they justify , not only the conclusions I have drawn as to the conditions which determine the occurrence of chemical change , but also the conclusion already stated by me in the note previously referred to , in 1893 , that pure gases should be perfect dielectrics : i.e. , that the passage of an electric discharge through a gas , like that of an explosive wave through , say , a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen gases , can only take place if an electrolyte be present , such electrolyte being , it would seem , always a composite system , and one which may be pictured as existing momentarily in a quasi-liquid state .
The argument was more fully developed in my Presidential Address to the Chemical Society in 1895 , in which I discussed very fully the nature of chemical change , and the conditions which determine it , from various points of view.f * ' Chem Soc. Trans. , ' 1902 , p. 400 .
No more striking evidence that the occurrence of a discharge in a gas is dependent on the presence of a something besides the gas\#151 ; on the formation of a complex conducting system\#151 ; could be given than is afforded by the beautiful 102 Prof. H. E. Armstrong .
On Chemical Change , [ Mar. 13 , No attempt has been made as yet to deal practically with the problem of electrical discharge in gases in the way in which Dixon , Brereton Baker and Shenstone have dealt with that of chemical change .
Vacuum tubes are invariably made of soft glass__________which is altogether unfitted for accurate experiments , as it is always more or less readily attacked by moisture , yielding up traces of alkali ; no special care is taken in cleansing them ; no special precautions are used in filling them ; and both oil of vitriol and commercial phosphoric anhydride are used as drying agents , although it is well known that these may be fruitful sources of contamination .
And the electrodes offer special difficulties , which it may be impossible to overcome , owing to the readiness with which metals occlude gases .
If there be evidence to show that the discharge in vacuum tubes is conditioned by the presence of impurities , as I contend there is , it is open to question whether most , if not all , of the effects attributed to the so-called radiant matter\#151 ; or as Sir AVm .
Crookes now expresses it , to electrons\#151 ; are not in reality due to ordinary gross matter .
To take an example from this author 's recent communication to the Society on " Radio-activity and the Electron Theory , " at the close of the paper reference is made to the discharge from a silver pole of electrons which cause the glass against which they strike to glow ; at the same time , the silver volatilises and is deposited near the pole .
u While the volatilisation of the pole is rapidly proceeding , the metal glows as if red hot .
This \red heat ' is superficial only .
" It appears to me possible to give a more ordinary explanation of the remarkable phenomenon thus described by Sir Wm. Crookes .
A silver electrode would be more or less u polarised " with oxygen\#151 ; for we know that silver has the power of absorbing oxygen when fused , and that the gas is only partially extruded as the metal cools ; in any case a minute amount of oxygen would be presen tin the tube .
When heated by the discharge in vacuo the silver-oxygen iC compound " would experiment exhibited by Dewar at the Eoyal Institution , showing that the discharge at once ceases in one of Crookes ' phosphorescent tubes on cooling with liquid oxygen .
Such treatment cannot be supposed to cause the condensation of the residual air , but may well condition the deposition of the traces of vapour ( ?
of conducting water ) present in the gas , thereby destroying the systems within which conduction can alone occur .
It may be here pointed out that this argument is perhaps also at least partially applicable in explanation of the erratic behaviour of the discharge in vacuum tubes .
If the discharge occur within a complex system , it may well be that certain conditions will favour the formation of a conducting system including one , and others of a system including another , of several substances present in a tube such an explanation , for example , would account for the fact that the mercury spectrum is only sometimes seen in tubes connected with a mercury pump .
And having regard to the fact that a gas may exhibit several spectra , it may be that the spectrum of a given substance varies more or less according as it is included m one or other of several conducting systems.\#151 ; ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans./ 1895 , 1141 .
) 1902 ] Electrical Conduction in , and Luminosity .
103 dissociate\#151 ; i-e .
, oxygen would be given off , but would be in part reabsorbed , so that the silver would never be entirely free from oxygen , the change , in fact , would oscillate about a point of equilibrium , and would never be total in the direction corresponding to the complete deoxidation of the silver .
May not the bombardment of the glass described by Sir Wm. Crookes have been effected by the displaced oxygen molecules , and may not the surface heating of the pole have been an outward and visible sign of the return of the truants to their silvery home 1 , A diamond pole , such as Sir Wm. Crookes speaks of , might behave in a similar manner in presence of a minute amount of oxygen ; in fact , the argument applies generally to the occlusion of hydrogen and other gases by electrodes .
An argument which I think will sooner or later be regarded as of weight in favour of the view that the phenomena are electrolytic in their origin is afforded by the luminous manifestations in vacuum tubes .
These can scarcely be either mere collision effects , or mere heat effects .
It has long seemed to me that luminosity and line spectra are the expression\#151 ; the visible signs\#151 ; of the changes attending the formation of molecules from their atoms , or , speaking generally , that they are consequences of chemical changes , a chemical change being one which involves an alteration of molecular composition , or it may be of molecular configuration , as it is conceivable that even changes involving but the formation of isodynamic ( tautomeric ) molecules\#151 ; changes in molecular structure unattended with change in molecular size\#151 ; may give rise to such manifestations .
Dealing with the question of the luminosity of hydrocarbon flames , I expressed this view in 1895 in the terms given below.* * " Interest should be revived in the subject by the recent observations of V. B. Lewes ( ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1895 , vol. 57 , p. 450 ) on the decomposition of acetylene at high temperatures , which , have led him to suggest that this compound plays t e chief part in promoting luminosity in hydrocarbon flames , and that the heat liberated during its decomposition endows the carbon particles produced from it with an incandescence far higher than corresponds to the temperature of the flame .
It appears to me that while accepting this as a partial explanation , it is unnecessary to suppose that luminosity is consequent on the production of presumably solid carbon particles ; the conversion of acetylene , or other hydrocarbons , at high temperatures into hydrogen and carbon , although a decomposition in the ordinary sense of the term , is doubtless a change involving the interaction of severa molecules , and the consequent formation of carbon molecules of a high order o complexity together with hydrogen molecules ; and it is exothermic because the energy liberated in the combination of the carbon atoms among themselves , and also of the hydrogen atoms , is far in excess of that absorbed in the decomposition of the hydrocarbon molecules .
The initial luminance may therefore well be that of the molecules at the moment of formation prior to condensation , although the continued incandescence of the carbon molecules after their reduction to the solid state probably contributes largely to maintain luminosity , giving to hydrocarbon flames their special value , perhaps .
But this is to explain the phenomena in terms 104 Prof. H. E. Armstrong .
Chemical , [ Mar. 13I In the discussion on Mr. Campbell Swinton 's paper on the luminosity of the rare earths when heated in vacuo by means of cathode rays read in April , 1899 , * I applied this view in explanation of the brilliant luminosity of certain rare earths , and also of the electric arc , suggesting in the latter case that the carbon molecules were dissociated by the passage of the current , and that the re-association of the atoms into molecules gave rise to the intensely luminous effect which is characteristic of the arc .
Bunte has argued , !
in the case of the Auer von Welsbach gas mantle , that the high luminosity is not so much due to a specific superior radiating power of the earth used as to the fact that , in virtue of the power which a substance such as ceria possesses of form-ing a peroxide , combustion takes place to a greater extent at a surface on which it is present than on one consisting of a neutral oxide : consequently , the temperature is higher at such a surface .
This undoubtedly must be the case ; but I would go further , and regard the chemical changes occurring at the surface as the direct seat , or origin as it were , of the luminosity .
Probably , a higher oxide is alternately decomposed and reformed\#151 ; in other words , the process is one of oscillatory or recurrent oxidation .
Owing to the influence which the oxide exercises as a catalyst , combustion doubtless takes place at its surface more completely than it would at a corresponding neutral surface , and in consequence the temperature developed at the oxide surface is above that of the flame generally .
[ It is noteworthy that besides ceria , which is by far the most efficient , only one or two other oxides are effective excitants ; and that cerium dioxide is remarkably stable at high temperatures.\#151 ; added May 2 .
] A similar explanation may be applied to the incandescence of oxides generally , such as is witnessed , for example , in the lime and zirconia lights .
The Nernst lamp probably owes its efficiency to a like cause .
It may well be that in the case of the incandescent mantle the maximum effect is produced when only a relatively small proportion of active oxide is present , because at the particular state of dilution the oxide is present in solid solution in a form in which it is most prone to suffer change\#151 ; that besides being placed under the necessary conditions of freedom , it attains to the most suitable degree of molecular complexity , and therefore to its greatest activity , in dilute solid solution just as many substances do in dilute liquid solutions .
Mr. Campbell Swinton 's observations appear to me to be in harmony Frankland s theory , as I understand it , and as appears to be necessary in order to explain the luminous appearance of a hydrogen-oxygen dame burning under pressure , and other cases in which the products of combustion are gaseous."\#151 ; ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1895 , p. 1147 .
* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' toI .
65 , p. 115 .
1 " * Deut .
Chem. Gfes .
Ber .
, ' 1898 , p. 5 .
1902 ] Electrical Conduction in Gases , and 105 with these conclusions .
An intensity of cathode rays that gave a brilliant light with " pure " thoria and with a mixture of 99 per cent , thoria with 1 per cent , ceria was found by him to give practically no light with " pure " ceria and with a mixture of equal parts of thoria and ceria .
It is improbable that Mr. Swinton dealt with pure thoria , as the methods of purification practised at that time did not suffice to give a pure product .
That thoria alone gave more light under the influence of cathode rays than in the Bunsen flame may have been due to the fact that it was more intensely heated in the former case , the effect produced by minute proportions of the exciting oxide being much dependent on temperature , and greater the higher the temperature .
The need of an explanation such as is here given of the luminosity of oxides at high temperatures has , I know , occurred to others .
My colleague , Professor Ayrton , has long held such a view , and he informs me that , in the course of conversation with him in 1897 , Professor Elihu Thomson gave it as his opinion that the brilliant incandescence of lime in the oxy-hydrogen flame was not a mere high temperature effect* The phenomena of phosphorescence under the influence ot tne electric discharge exhibited by the oxides and basic sulphates of the rare earths , with which Sir Wm. Crookes 's classical researches have made us familiar , may be included in the same category with those above discussed : if not due to recurrent oxidation , they may be cases of recurrent polymerisation .
Apparently the same oxides act as excitants whether a flame or cathode rays be used .
Sir Wm. Crookes , it is well known , holds the view that yttria , lanthana , \amp ; c. , are characterised by definite phosphorescent spectra ; on the other hand , Lecoq de Boisbaudran has contended that the yttria and gadolinite earths are not self-luminous .
This latter view has recently been confirmed by Baur and Marc.f According to these observers , whilst the colourless oxides and salts of yttrium , gadolinium , and lanthanum are not specifically luminescent , if mixed with minute proportions of the earths which have coloured salts , viz. , erbium , neo- or praseodymium , they afford spectra such as have hitherto been regarded as characteristic of .
themselves ; and such spectra may be equally well developed by using lime or calcium sulphate as diluents ; yttria itself , however , fails to give a spectrum when mixed in small proportion with lime .
[ If it should eventually be established that the emission spectra are conditioned solely by " earths " which afford coloured salts , as the emission spectra appear to be closely related to the absorption spectra , dark lines in the one taking the place of bright lines in the other , it * Comp. 'Journal of the Society of Arts , ' Feb. 10 , 1899 , p. 256 ; E. Pringsheim , International Physical Congress at Paris* Keporb 2 .
+ 'Deut .
Chem. G-es .
Ber .
, * 1901 , p. 2460 .
106 Prof. H. E. Armstrong .
On Chemical , [ Mar. 13 will be possible to correlate the production of visible colour with that of a luminous spectrum , and to regard both as originating in the same intramolecular mechanism.\#151 ; Note , added May 2.1 The argument may be carried a stage further and applied to phosphorescent phenomena generally .
It appears possible to regard all these as the outcome of oscillatory changes in molecular structure* and the slow decay of the effect which is observed in many cases may be compared with the slow discharge of a condenser\#151 ; the charging of which be it noted may be regarded as but a process of molecular deformation of the dielectric .
In a case like that of radium , it would seem that energy of low period suffices to bring about the change the reversal of which subsequently gives rise to the luminous effect and radio-activity .
The chemist is tempted to contrast the behaviour of radium with that of a substance undergoing change into an isodynamic form\#151 ; such as nitro-camphor , .
_ ' .
ch.no2 for example .
IS itro-camphor C8 Hi4\lt ; [ dissolves r'feadily in alkalies , but its salts are derived from a pseudonitro-camphor , the group CH .
N02 undergoing alteration into the group C ( NO .
OH ) .
When liberated from its salts , the pseudo-form at once , in great payt , reverts to the normal form j on the other hand , when solid nitro-camphor , which apparently consists almost entirely of the normal form , is dissolved in a liquid , it in part gradually undergoes conversion into the pseudo-form .
A point of equilibrium is eventually reached when from 7 to 10 per cent , of the pseudo-form is present.* The change proceeds at different rates in different solvents , and is undoubtedly conditioned by some catalyst : in other words , either form of the pure substance would be stable .
It will .be apparent that the change is one which does not affect the molecule as a whole , but merely an isolated region in it .
If the energy set free in the formation of the dominant form were of sufficiently high period , nitro-camphor might appear luminous and even be radio-active .
The argument is of interest , as it serves to suggest that radio-activity may not be the isolated phenomenon we at present suppose but a concomitant of some chemical changes .
[ From this point of view , it appeared to be desirable to examine substances such as saccharin ( orthobenzoic sulphinide ) and cane-sugar , which glow in a very remarkable manner when broken up .
Mr. E. W. Lewis has kindly made a number of experiments for me , but without obtaining positive results : although an intense photographic impression of the flash is easily obtained by merely crushing crystals of saccharin or sugar on a glass plate held above a sensitive film , crystals placed on a film are without effect , even when left in contact with it during several days .
It will , however , be desirable to * Comp. Lowry , * Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1898 , p. 966 .
1902 ] Electrical Conduction in Gases , and Luminosity .
10 / Mr^Wm^Jactoon^Po^1'* ^^bi^gentleman for a specimen of the substance he had prepared in 1895 .
He was able to send me crystals , but informed me that those he had tested were inactive We found this to be true of the remainder , seventeen out of thirty-six crystals being inactive , at most a very feeble glow being observed on crushing the others ; but active crystals were obtained on recrystallising the inactive material from acetone .
Old specimens of sugar crystals appear to be as active as new ones M\lt ; lL class of effects attendant on radio-activity , and which have an important bearing on the question previously .considered , are those attributed to emanations from radio-active substances , bir Wm. Crookes has brought the subject prominently under notice in his recent communication .
The behaviour of such emanations is strikingly , similar to that of ordinary gross matter ; indeed , it is difficult to resist the conclusion that such is their character , and that they are but secondary products engendered by radio-activity .
_ n [ Professor Rutherford 's recent observations on the " emanation from thorium compounds are very difficult to interpret .
The assumption that Mr. Soddy and he are inclined to make , t that the emanation is allied in properties to the elements of the argon group is almost a contradiction in terms .
Such a constituent presumably would be an inert substance , and if not removed by the drastic treatment to which they submitted their material without permanently affecting its radiative power , it would scarcely then escape spontaneously on mere exposure of the solid .
It would seem to be far more probable that the " emanation " is a secondary manifestation , in some way conditioned by the " straight-line radiation .
" There is a feature in Dr. Russell 's experiments which has always struck me as remarkable , assuming that the photographic effects he has obtained are due to hydrogen peroxide , viz. , the absolute sharp-ness of the images formed by a scratched zinc plate even when this is placed at a relatively considerable distance above the sensitive film .
If the emanation passed by mere diffusion from the active surface , a more or less blurred image might be expected to form .
It would almost seem that the molecules are projected in straight lines\#151 ; in other words , that they may be electrically charged .
If so , a distinction should perhaps be drawn between a merely vaporised substance and a " nascent " substance.\#151 ; Note , added May 2 .
] The production of hydrogen peroxide under such an influence at * ' Chem. \#163 ; oc .
Trans./ 1895 , p. 985 .
" j " ' Chem. Soc. Trans./ 1902 , p. 321 .
108 Elect !
ical(conduction in and Luminosity .
[ IVIar 13 once presents itself not merely as a possibility , but practically as a necessity .
There is every reason to suppose that hydrogen peroxide is a necessary product of oxidation by ordinary oxygen whatever the substance oxidised ; but the conditions under which it is produced are usually such as to engender its own immediate decomposition___so that it either escapes observation or is met with only in minute quantity .
The oxidation of zinc may be taken as an example .
The oxidation necessarily takes place in a circuit comprising ( ) the impure metal_ which because it is impure furnishes both negative and positive electrode\#151 ; ( b)conducting ( impure or dirty ) water and ( c ) oxygen , of which the last acts as depolariser .
The water is electrolysed , its oxygen going to the metal ; at the same time , the hydrogen from the water becomes associated with the depolarising oxygen molecule , forming hydrogen peroxide , H202 : the products , in fact , are zinc oxide and hydrogen peroxide in equivalent quantities , not merely zinc oxide as is taught by the text-books .
It does not seem to me that Sir Wm. Crookes has disproved the possibility that the effects may be due to hydrogen peroxide by his experiment in which one limb of a U-tube passed through the cork in a bottle containing a solution of the peroxide , the open end of the other limb being put close to a sensitive film , the result being that no photographic effect was observed in 72 hours , although a strong effect was produced when the film was kept over the mouth of the bottle during only 24 hours .
The peroxide molecules would undoubtedly tend towards the walls of the tube , especially at the bend ; but collision therewith would probably have fatal effects , as the alkaline surface of the glass would promote their destruction .
The argument may be applied to recent researches on the so-called ionisation of air and other gases .
If this term implied the recognition of nothing more than the power of conducting , little difficulty would arise .
Faraday , with characteristic and truly scientific caution , used the word ions simply " to express those bodies which can pass to the electrodes .
" Unfortunately , of late years the signification of the word has been entirely altered : ionisation now connotes a schism____a process of molecular suicide ; and the ions are looked upon as discrete particles enjoying separate existence , as the electrically charged , wandering elements of molecular disruption .
Before we assume that such ions are present in air under ordinary conditions , and that they alone can condition conductivity , it behoves us to examine carefully into the nature of the evidence which is relied on in proof of their presence .
It appears to me that much of the work done in this field is open to criticism .
Thus , in Mr. C. T. R. Wilson 's experiments , * even the minute amount of chemical change occurring at the surface of the sulphur bead attaching the gold leaf of the electroscope to its * * Roy .
See .
Proc. , ' 1901 , vo\ 68 , p. 151 ; vol. GO , 277 .
1902 .
] Properties of the Arterial and Venous Walls .
109 support may have sufficed to render the atmosphere within the flask conducting .
And in the later experiments of the same observer , the phosphoric anhydride used as drying agent may have contributed an acid impurity .
Sir Wm. Crookes has recently given an illustration of the manner in which impurities may be derived from phosphoric anhydride .
By heating it strongly in vacuo , he got rid of these to such an extent that they were no longer recognisable by the spectroscope ; but it cannot be supposed that even such treatment suffices to render the anhydride innocuous , bearing in mind the extraordinary delicacy of the electroscopic test .
I venture to think that until the phenomena of conductivity presented by gases have been studied not merely with the same , but even with far greater , care than has been devoted to the study of those attending gross chemical changes in gases , it is premature to conclude that gases undergo ionisation\#151 ; using the word in its modern sense .
I also venture to think that the question whether mere molecules cannot form conducting systems has not yet received in any way the attention it deserves from those engaged in these inquiries .
" On the Properties of the Arterial and Venous Walls."* By J. A. MacWilliam , M.D. , Regius Professor of Physiology in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Sir M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read November 28 , 1901 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Aberdeen .
) Post-mortem Contraction of Arteries .
So long ago as 1891 I noticed that the excised carotid artery of a recently-killed ox exhibits a strongly-marked and long-persisting contraction of its muscular wall .
The phenomenon is , of course , most easily studied in the arteries of the larger animals .
In this investigation I have examined arteries from thirty-five oxen and a considerable number of horses , sheep , cats , and men .
When the carotid of the ox or horse is exposed immediately after death , it is found to be soft and flaccid , and more or less flattened in section , with a large bore , usually 5\#151 ; 6 mm. On exposure to the air , cooling , manipulation , cutting , \amp ; c. , the artery speedily becomes rigid and contracted ; the tube becomes circular in section , and its calibre is greatly reduced , e.g. , to an internal diameter of 2\#151 ; 3 mm. , or less .
The artery becomes so stiff that a piece 7 or 8 cm .
long may * A statement of the chief conclusions arrived at in this investigation was communicated to the Physiological Society ( at Edinburgh ) on July 20 , 1901 .
VOL. LXX .
I

