The Case of a full-grown Woman in whom the Ovaria were deficient .
By Mr. Charles Pears , F.L.S. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read May 9 , 1805 .
[ Phil , Trans. 1805 , p. 225 .
] The woman whose case is here described was born in Radnorshire in the year 1770 .
She was of a fair complexion , and , except when irritated , of a mild temper .
In her diet she was remarkably abstemious , eating very little , either of animal or vegetable food ; and if at any time she ate a hearty meal , or took several kinds of food , she was so much affected by it as to faint .
She was of a costive habit , seldom having a passage oftener than once in nine days , sometimes only once in fourteen days .
She ceased to grow at ten years of age , and was only four feet six inches in height .
Across the shoulders she measured fourteen inches , but her pelvis measured only nine inches , from the ossa ilia to the sacrum .
Her breasts and nipples never enlarged more than those of a man ; nor did she ever menstruate , or show any other sign of puberty , either in mind or body ; on the contrary , she always expressed aversion to the familiarities of young men .
At the age of twenty-one she became uneasy at finding herself different from other women , and , attributing the difference to her not having menstruated , frequently applied for medical advice .
She was , from her infancy , subject to the attacks of a complaint in the chest , attended with cough .
These attacks increased in violence as she advanced in age ; and in her twenty-ninth year , one of them came on , attended with convulsions , of which , after a few hours , she died .
Upon examining the female organs after her death , it appeared that the os tincwe and uterus had the usual form , but had not increased beyond their size in the infant state .
The passage into the uterus , through the cervix , was oblique , and the Fallopian tubes were pervious to the fimbrie .
The ovaria were so indistinct that they rather showed the rudiments which ought to have formed them , than any part of their natural structure .
From the history of the preceding case , it appears , not only that an imperfect state of the ovaria is attended with an absence of all the characters belonging to the female after puberty , but also that the uterus itself , although perfectly formed , was checked in its growth , in consequence of the imperfect structure of those parts .

