An Account of some Peculiarities in the anatomical Structure of the Wombat , with Observations on the female Organs of Generation .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 23 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 304 .
] The author , having received a male wombat alive from one of the islands in Bass 's Straits , had an opportunity of observing its habits in a domesticated state , and of examining the peculiarities of its internal formation after death , particularly the mechanism of the bones and muscles of its hind legs , which have not been described either by Geoffroy , in his account of its internal form , or by Cuvier , who has described several parts of its internal structure in his Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee .
The stomach of the wombat resembles closely that of the beaver , and differs so much from that of the kanguroo , and other animals of the opossum tribe , that it forms an extraordinary peculiarity .
An account of the dissection of a female wombat having been received from the late Mr. Bell , Surgeon to the Colony at New South Wales , Mr. Home has inserted Mr. Bell 's description , with remarks especially on the state of the uterus , which was double , and impregnated on each side ; that on the right side was as large as a pullet 's egg .
The os tincae was filled with a thick gelatinous substance .
When a longitudinal incision was made into its cavity , its coats were found lined with the same jelly , in the centre of which was an embryo wrapped up in very fine membranes , that appeared to have no connexion by vessels with either the uterus or the gelatinous matter .
These facts , says Mr. Home , throw considerable light on the mode of propagation of this very curious tribe of animals .
They confirm , in the most satisfactory manner , the observations contained in a former paper on the kanguroo , which required further evidence , as the specimen on which the observations were made had been sent to England preserved in spirits , and the parts had become very indistinct , from being coagulated and long kept .
Since it seems thus established , that the foetus is nourished without a placenta , the source of the gelatinous matter provided for its nourishment becomes a natural object of inquiry .
In birds the albumen of the egg , which corresponds with this jelly , is formed in a tube called the oviduct , and the lateral canals , which open into the cavity of the uterus of the wombat and kanguroo near its neck , bear a strong resemblance in their form to the oviducts of birds ; and in the kanguroo they were found , in the impregnated state , to be enlarged , and to have a very free communication with the uterus ; circumstances which induce the author to believe their sole use is to form the jelly , and to deposit it in the uterus .

