I. " Comparison of Mr. De la Rue 's and Padre Secchi 's EclipsePhotographs .
" By WARREN DE LA RUE , F.1R.S .
( See page 442 .
) II .
" On Drops."-Parts I. and II .
By FREDERICK GUTLIRIE , Esq. Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. ( See pages 444 and 457 .
) III .
" On the Chemical Conistituttion of Reichenbach 's Creosote .
" By HUGO MiULLER , Ph. D. Communicated by Warren De la Rue , F.R.S. ( See page 484 .
) IV .
" Researches on the Colourinog Matters derived from Coal-tar .
No. IV .
Phenyltolylamine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( See page 485 .
) V. " On the Spectra of some of the Nebulae .
" By W. HUGGINS , Esq. , F.R.A.S. ; -a Supplemenit to the Paper " On the Spectra of some of the Fixed Stars , " by W. HUGGINS , Esq. , and W. A. MILLER , M.D. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Communlicated by the Treasurer .
Received September 8 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by showing the importance of bringing analysis by the prism to bear upon the remarkable class of bodies known as nebulre , especially since the results obtained by the largest telescopes hitherto constructed appear to show that increase of optical power alone would probably fail to determine the question whether all the nebulae are clusters of stars too remote to be separately visible .
The little indication of resolvability , the absence of central condensationi , the greenish-blue colour , and the intrinsic brightness -characterizing many of the nebulae classed by Sir W. Herschel as planietary , induced the author to select chiefly nebulae of this class for prismatic observation .
The apparatus employed is that of which a description is given in the paper , " 'On the Spectra of some of the Fixed Stars , " by the author and Dr. W. A. Miller , to which this is a supplement .
No. 4373* , 37 H. IV .
Draconis .
A bright planetary nebula , with a very small nucleus .
The light from this nebula is not composed of light of different refrangibilities , and does not therefore form a continuous spectrum .
It consists of light of three definite refrangibilities only , and , after passing through the prisms , remains concentrated in three bright lines .
The strongest of these occupies a position in the spectrum about mid* These numbers refer to the last catalogue of Sir J. F. W. Herschel , Phil. Trans. Part T. 1864 , pp. 1-138 .
way between 6 and F , and was found , by the method of simultaneous observation , to be coincident with the brightest of the linles of nitrogen .
A little more refrangible , a second line is seen .
At about three times the distance of the second line , a third , very faint line occurs ; this coincides in position with Fraunhofer 's F , and one of the lines of hydrogen .
Besides the three bright lines , an exceedingly faint continuous spectrum of the central bright point was perceived .
The planetary nebula , 4390 , 2 6 , Tauri Poniatawskii ; 4514 , 73 II .
IV .
Cygni ; 4510 , 51 E. IV .
Sagittarii ; 4628 , 1 H. IV .
Aquarii ; 4964 , 18 H. IV .
, the annular nebula in Lyra 4447 , 57 M. , and the Diumb-bell in Vulpecula 4532 , 27 M. , gave spectra identical with the spectrum of 37 1 .
IV .
, except that in the case of some of these the strongest only of the three bright lines was seeln .
It is obvious that these nebulae can no longer be regarded as clusters of stars .
In place of any incandescent solid or liquid body transmitting light of all refrangibilities through an atmosphere which intercepts by absorption some of them , such as our sun and the fixed stars appear to be , these nebulme , or at least their photosurfaces , must be regarded as enormous masses of luminous gas or vapour .
On this supposition the absence of central condensation admits of explanation ; for even if the whole mass of the gas is luminous , the light emitted by the portion of gas beyond the surface visible to us would be in great measure absorbed by the portion of gas through which it would have to pass , and for this reason there would be presented a luminous surface only .
The small brilliancy of the nebula , notwithstanding the considerable angle which in most cases they subtend , is in accordance with the very inferior splendour of glowing gas as compared with incandescent solid or liquid matter .
The extreme simplicity of constitution which the three bright lines suggest , whether or not we regard them as indicating the presence of nitrogen , hydrogen , and a substance unknown , is opposed to the opinion that they are clusters of stars .
The following nebulh and resolvable clusters gave a continuous spectrum:-4294 , 92 M. Herculis ; 4244 , 50 R. IV .
Herculis ; 116 , 31 M. , the Great Nebula in Andromeda ; 117 , 32 M. Andromedue ; 428 , 55 , Andromedre ; 826 , 26 H. IV .
Eridani .
In the spectrum of 31 M. , the nebulae in Andromeda , and in that of the companion nebula , 32 M. , the red and part of the orange are wanting .

