156 On Bright Lines in the Spectra of Star Clusters .
[ Apr. 19 , repeat themselves .
This would explain why the action of spongy iron continues so long .
It is , however , quite certain that there is also a reducing action taking place when ordinary water is passed through spongy iron .
This is clearly indicated by the reduction of nitrates .
Our knowledge of those low organisms which are believed to be the cause of certain epidemics is as yet too limited to allow of direct experiments upon them .
It is not improbable that , like the Bacteria of putrefaction , they are rendered harmless when water containing them passes through spongy iron ; but until we possess the means of isolating these organisms , this question can only be definitively settled by practical experience .
Should this not be satisfactory , should those specific con-tagia not be destroyed when passing in water through spongy iron , then the separation of Bacteria by spongy iron may afford means of isolating those germs of disease ; should it be favourable , then we shall have found in spongy iron the material to prevent the spreading of epidemics by potable water .
II .
" On a Cause for the Appearance of Bright Lines in the Spectra of Irresolvable Star Clusters .
" By E. J. Stone , M.A. , E.R.S. , Her Majesty 's Astronomer , Cape of Good Hope .
Received March 20 , 1877 .
Before the announcement of Mr. Huggins 's discovery of the presence of bright lines in the spectra of nebulae , it was generally , if not universally , accepted as a fact that nebulae were merely stellar clusters irresolvable on account of their great distances from us .
This view had become impressed on the minds of many of our greatest observing astronomers in the progress of their work , and is one therefore which should not lightly be abandoned .
It appears to me that Mr. Huggins 's observations , instead of being inconsistent with the view formerly held by astronomers , are rather confirmatory of the correctness of that view .
The sun is known to be surrounded by a gaseous envelope of very considerable extent .
Similar envelopes must surround the stars generally .
Conceive a close stellar cluster .
Each star , if isolated , would be surrounded by its own gaseous envelope .
These gaseous envelopes might , in the case of a cluster , form over the whole , or a part of the cluster , a continuous mass of gas .
So long as such a cluster was within a certain distance from us , the light from the stellar masses would predominate over that of the gaseous envelopes .
The spectrum would therefore be an I ordinary stellar spectrum .
Suppose such a cluster to be removed further j and further from us .
The light from each star would be diminished in the proportion of the inverse square of the distance ; but such would not \gt ; 77 .
] On the Motion of Vibrating Bodies .
15/ 1 the case with the light from the enveloping surface formed by the pS60US envelopes .
The light from this envelope received on a slit in the cus of an object-glass would be sensibly constant , because the contriving area would be increased in the same proportion that the light ceived from each part is diminished .
The result would be that at some .finite distance , and all greater distances , the preponderating light ceived from such a cluster would be derived from the gaseous envelopes id not from the isolated stellar masses .
The spectrum of the cluster old therefore become a linear one , like that from the gaseous sur-\gt ; undings of our own sun .
The linear spectrum might , of course , under jrtain circumstances , be seen mixed up with a feeble continuous spec-.mn from the light of the stars themselves .
It should be noticed that , in this view of the subject , the linear spec-\#166 ; lrni can only appear when the resolvability of the cluster is at least ijuriously affected by the light of the gaseous envelopes becoming dnsibly proportional to that from the stellar masses , and that in the reat majority of such cases it would only be in the light from the irre-olvable portions of the cluster that bright lines could be seen in the pectrum .
The changes in form which would be presented to us by such a nebula light be expected to be small .
These changes would depend chiefly ipon changes in the distribution of the stellar masses constituting the luster .
It has always appeared to me difficult to realize the conditions mder which isolated irregular masses of gas , presenting to us sharp ngular points , could exist uncontrolled by any central gravitational mass without showing larger changes in form than appear to have been the as with many of the nebulae .
In my view of the nature of nebulae this lifficulty no longer exists .
Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , February 9 , 1877 .
ill .
uOn some Figures exhibiting the Motion of Vibrating Bodies , and on a New Method for determining the Speed of Machines/ ' By Herbert McLeod , F.C.S. , Professor of Experimental Science , and George Sydenham Clarke , Lieut. R.E. , Instructor in Geometrical Drawing in the Royal Indian Engineering College , Cooper 's Hill .
Communicated by Prof. Duncan , F.R.S. , Pres. G.S. Received April 5 , 1877 .
If the image of a point of light or of a black dot on a white ground be observed in a vibrating mirror , the motion of which may be produced by a tuning-fork or reed , the point , in virtue of the retention of the image on the retina , will appear as a straight line .
If , however , the luminous point be moving in a direction at right angles to the plane in which the

