]\gt ; LORD RAYLEIGH ON THE CIRCULATION the places of maximum vibration , and falling back to it at the nodes .
In a vacuum the phenomena observed by SAVART do not take place , all kinds of powder collecting at the nodes .
In the investigation of this , as of the other problems , the motion is supposed to take place in two dimensions .
It is probable that the colour phenomena observed by SEDLEY TAyLOR* on liquid films under the actioa of sonorous vibrations are to be referred to the operation of the aerial vortices here investigated .
In a memoir on the colours of the soap-bubble , BREWSTER has described the peculiar arrangements of colour accompanied by whirling motions , caused by the impact of a gentle current of air .
In Mr. TAyLOR'S experiments the film probably divides itself into vibrating sections , associated with which will be aerial vortices reacting laterally upon the film .
The third problem relates to the air currents observed by DVORAK in a KUNDT'S tube , to which is due the formation of the dust figures .
In this case we are obliged to take into account the compressibility of the fluid .
[ My best thanks are due to Mr. W. M. HICKS , who has been good enough to examine the mathematical work of the paper .
The results are thus put forward with greater confidence than I could otherwise have felt .
] S 1 .
In the usual notation the equations of motion in two dimensions are ( 1 ) , and since the fluid is incompressible , ( 2 ) .
In virtue of ( 2 ) we may write ( 3 ) .
Ehminating between equations ( 1 ) , we get .
Now , * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , 1878 .
Edinburgh Transactions , 1866-67 .
OF AIR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
and so that ( 4 ) .
For the first approximation we neglect the right-hand member of ( 4 ) , as being of the second order in the velocities , and take simply .
( 5 ) .
The solution of ( 5 ) may be . . . . . . . .
( 6 ) , where ( 7 ) .
We will now introduce the suppositions that the motion is periodic with respect to , and also ( to a first approximation ) with respect to .
We thus assume that and are proportional to , and also to .
The wave-length is and the period is .
The equations now become ( 8 ) , by which and are to be determined as functions .
If we write ( 9 ) , we have as the most general solutions of ( 8 ) . . . .
( 10 ) , . . . . . . . . . .
With respect to the value of , we see from ( 9 ) that it is complex .
If we write then * STOKES " " On Pendulums Camb .
Phil. Trans. , vol. , 1850 .
In all the applications that we shall have occasion to make , an approximate value of is admissible .
On account of the smallness of is very large in comparison with , that is to say , the thickness of the stratum through which the tangential motion can be propagated in time is very small relatively to the wave-length We may therefore neglect in the equation and take simply Again so that the difierence between and may be neglected .
We will therefore write ( 12 ) , here ( 13 ) .
We must now distinguish the cases which we have to investigate .
In the first we suppose that a wave motion is in progress in a vessel whose horizontal bottom occupies a fixed plane .
We may conceive ) fluid to be water vibratin in stationa1y waves uIlder the action of grayity , the question being to examine the influence of the bottom upon the motion .
If there are no other solids in the neighbourhood of the bottom , we may put being measured upwards , and bein taken positive .
The conditions to be satisfied at are that and should there vanish .
Thus so that and At a short distance from the bottom , .
If we denote by the maximum value of near the bottom , we have kx , and then ( 14 ) , OF AIR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
( 16 ) .
These are the symbolical values .
If we throw away the imaginary parts , we have as the solution in real quantities by ( 12 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 19 ) .
This is the solution to a first approximation .
At a very small distance from the bottom the terms in become insensible .
Although the values of and in ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) are strictly periodic , it is proper to notice that the same property does not attach to the motions thereby defined of the particles of the fluid .
In our notation is not the velocity of any particular particle of the fluid , but of the particle , whichever it may be , that at the moment under consideration occupies the point .
If be the actual position at time of the particle whose mean position during several vibrations is , then the real velocities of the particle at time are not , but ; and.thus the mean velocity parallel to is uot necessarily zero , but is equal to the mean value of in which again From the general form of , viz. , , it follows readily that For the second term we must calculate from the actual values as in ( 18 ) , ( 19 ) .
Thus nt \mdash ; ky of which the two first terms may be neglected relatively to the third ( containing the large factor ) .
The of and will consist of two parts , the first independent of , and the second harmonic functions of .
It is with the first only that we are here concerned .
The mean of the velocity parallel to is thus ky sintl ky On account of the factor , this quantity is insensible except when is extremely small .
We may therefore write it ( 20 ) , V ( equal to ) being the velocity of propagation of waves corresponding to and The only approximation employed in the derivation of ( 15 ) and ( 16 ) is the neglect of the right hand member of ( 4 ) , and the corresponding real values of and could if necessary be readily exhibited without the use of a merely approximate value of To proceed further we must calculate the value of ( 21 ) in ( 4 ) , for which it will be sufficient to take the values given by the first approximation .
Thus ' and by ( 17 ) , from which we find as the value of ( 21 ) , terms in OF AIR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
On account of the factor this quantity is sensible only when is very small .
We may wl.ite it with sufficient approximation ( 22 ) .
The terms in , corresponding to motions of half the original period , are not required for our purpose , which is to investigate the non-periodic motion of the second order .
The equation with which we have to proceed is found by equating ( 22 ) to The solution will consist of two parts , one resulting from the direct integration of ( 22 ) and involving the factor , the second a complementary function with arbitrary coefficients satisfying .
In the calculation of the first part we may identify with , on account of the smallness of relatively to .
In this way our equation becomes ( 23 ) , of which the solution is ( 24 ) .
The complementary function , being proportional to , may be written If the fluid be uninterrupted by a free surface , or otherwise , within distances for which is sensible , we must suppose , so that by ( 13 ) the function may be written The condition that ( equal to ) must vanish when , gives For the velocity parallel to we have In order that should vanish when , we must have approximately .
Thus .
( 25 ) , and . .
To obtain the mean velocity parallel to of a particle , we must add to ( 25 ) , the terms previously investigated and expressed by ( 20 ) .
If we call the total , we have ( 27 ) .
At a short distance from the bottom becomes insensible , and we have simply .
( 28 ) , .
( 29 ) .
The steady motion expressed by ( 28 ) and ( 29 ) is of a very simple character .
It consists of a series of vortices periodic with respect to in a distance .
For a given the horizontal motion is of one sign near the bottom , and of the opposite sign at a distance from it , the place of transition being at .
The horizontal motion of the first order near the bottom being by ( 18 ) , we see that it is a maximum when , . .
If we call these places loops , and the places of minimum velocity nodes , ( 29 ) shows that is negative and a maximum at the loops , positive and a maximum at the nodes .
The fluid therefore rises from the bottom over the nodes and falls back again over the loops , the horizontal motion near the bottom being thus directed towards the nodes and from the loops .
The maximum horizontal motion is simply , and is independent of the of .
We cannot , therefore , avoid considering this motion by supposing the coefficient of viscosity to be very small , the maintenance of the vortices becoming easier in the same proportion as the forces to produce the vortical motion diminish .
To ascertain the character of the motion quite close to the bottom , we must include the terms in .
Wheny- is extremely small . . . . .
( 30 ) , so that the motion is here in the opposite direction to that which when can be neglected .
It appears that ( being positive ) the velocity is negative from the plate outwards until somewhat exceeds , after which it is positive , until reversed by the factor .
The greatest negatiye velocity in the layer is about of that which is found at a little distance outside the layer .
FARADAY foumd that fine sand , scattered over the bottom , tended to collect at the loops .
This is in agreement with what the present calculation would lead us to expect , provided that we can suppose that the sand is controlled by the layer at the bottom whose motion is negative .
The .
thinness of the layer , however , presents itself as a difficulty .
The subject requires further experimental investigation ; but in the meantime the following data may be worth notice , though in some respects , , the shallowness of the liquid in relation to the wave-length , the circumstances differed materially from those lmed in the theoretical iigtion .
The liquid was water , and the period of vibration was , so that .
The thickness of the layer centim. Measurements of the diameters of the particles of sand gave about02 centim. , so that the grains would be almost wholly immersed in the negative layer , even if isolated .
It seems therefore that the observed motion to the loops gives rise in this case to no difficulty .
But it is possible that the behaviour of the sand is materially influenced by the vertical motion of the vessel by which in these experiments the liquid vibrations are maintained .
* S2 .
In the problem to which we now proceed the motion will be supposed to have its origin in the assumed motion of a flexible plate situated when in equilibrium at .
Thus for a first approximation we take , when , and the question is to investigate the resulting motion of the fluid in contact with the plate .
* See a paper " " On the Crispations of Fluid resting upon a Vibrating Support Phil. Mag. , July , 1883 XXIV .
The solution to a first approximation is readily obtained .
As in ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) , we have . . . .
( 31 ) , in which we may take as before ( 32 ) .
By the condition at .
so that ( 33 ) , ( 34 ) .
In passing to real quantities it will be convenient to write ( 35 ) .
Thus throwing away the imaginary parts of ( 33 ) , ( 34 ) , we get ( 36 ) , ( 37 ) , ( 38 ) .
From ( 32 ) , ( 35 ) , the approximate value of is , and that of is More exact values will however be required later .
We find .
( 39 ) , .
( 40 ) .
The values of and above expressed give nt , when This is sufficient for a first approximation , but in proceeding further we must remember OF IR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
that these prescribed velocities apply in strictness not to , but to Substituting the latter value of in the expressions ( 37 ) , and ( 38 ) , we find terms in The first term within the bracket is of the second order in relatively to the latter term , and may be omitted .
Thus The terms in we need not further examine .
From ( 39 ) , ( 40 ) , very approximately , so that we may write ( 41 ) .
To the same degree of approximation , , simply .
We have next , as in the first problem , to consider the complete equation ( 42 ) in the right hand member of which we use the pproximate values given by ( 36 ) , ( 37 ) , ( 38 ) .
Thus , and ( 42 ) becomes ( 43 ) .
It will be found presently that the term divided by from the final result , and thus we have to pursue the approximation further than might at first appear necessary .
We may however neglect terms of order , in comparison with the principal term .
may be identified with and the equation becomes ?
LORD RAYLEIGH ON THE CIRCULATION ( 44 ) , whence ( 45 ) .
And .
To obtain the value of at the surface of the plate it will be sufficient to put in ( 46 ) .
Thus . . . . .
( 47 ) .
By ( 32 ) , ( 39 ) , if as before we put Vfor .
Thus in ( 47 ) ( 48 ) .
To obtain the complete value of at the surface of the plate , corresponding to ( 37 ) , ( 46 ) , we have to add to ( 48 ) that given in ( 41 ) .
The term of lowest order disappears , and we are left simply with . . . . .
( 49 ) .
In like manner we find for the complete value of at the surface of the plate corresponding to ( 38 ) , ( 45 ) , ( 50 ) .
The values of and expressed in ( 49 ) and the second part of ( 50 ) must be cancelled by a suitable choice of the complementary function , satisfying , so that to the second order of approximation the fluid in contact with the plate may have no relative motion .
The complementary function is whence OF AIR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
kx , cos2 Determining the constants as indicated above we get .
( 51 ) , .
The velocities given by ( 51 ) , ( 52 ) are the only part of the motion of the second order which is sensible beyond a very small distance from the vibrating plate .
The nodes of the plate ( where sand would collect ) are at the points given by and the loops at the points .
At the former points is negative , and at the latter positive .
For is positive , and for is negative .
The magnitude of the vortical motion is independent of the coefficient of friction .
The complete value of to the second order of approximation ( except the terms in is obtained by adding together ( 37 ) , ( 46 ) , and ( 51 ) , and it will contain the term divided by in ( 46 ) , whose appearance , however , is misleading .
The objectionable term will be got rid of , if we express the mean velocity of a particle , instead of as in ( 46 ) , the mean velocity at point .
For this purpose we are to add to ( 46 ) , ( 51 ) , the mean value of as calculated from the first approximation where As in the former problem the mean value of is zero .
Multiplying together , and as found from ( 37 ) , 38 ) , and rejecting the terms in , we get with omission of .
( 53 ) , in which we may write Combining ( 53 ) , ( 46 ) , and ( 51 ) , we get finally ( 54 ) , which expresses the mean particle velocity .
When is very small , ( 54 ) gives ( 55 ) .
from which it appears that quite close to the plate the mean velocity is in the opposite direction to that which is found outside the frictional layer .
S3 .
In the third problem , relating to KUNDT'S tubes , the fluid must be treated as compressible , as the motion is supposed to be ately in one dimension , parallel ( say ) to .
The solution to a first approximation is merely an adaptation to two dimensions of the corresponding solution for a tube of revolution by KIRCHHOFF , * simplified by the neglect of the term .
to the development and cond\amp ; ubar ; ction of heat .
It is probable that the solution to the secqnd o , rder would be practicable also for a tube of revolution , but for the sake of simplicity I have adhered to the case of two dimensions .
The most important point in which the two problems are likely to differ can be investigated very simply , without a complete solution .
If we suppose , and write for , the fundamental equations are .
( 56 ) , with a corresponding equation for , and the equation of continuity , ( 57 ) .
* POGG .
Ann. , .
cxxxiv .
, 1868 .
OF AIR OBSERVED IN TUBES .
Whatever may be the actual values of and , we may write ( 58 ) , in which .
From ( 56 ) , , ( 60 ) , ( 61 ) .
Again from ( 60 ) , ( 61 ) , .
( 62 ) .
For the first approximation the terms of the second order in , and are to be omitted .
If we assume that as functions of , all the periodic quantities are proportional to , and write for , ( 62 ) becomes ( 63 ) .
Now by ( 57 ) , ( 59 ) , so that and ( 64,1 .
Substituting in ( 60 ) , ( 6 ] ) , with omission of terms of the second order , we get in view of ( 63 ) , * It is unnecessary to add a complementary function ( , satisfying , as the motion corresponding thereto may be regarded as covered by whence ( 65 ) .
If we eliminate directly from the fundamental equations ( 56 ) , we get ( 66 ) .
If we now assume that as functions of the quantities \amp ; c. , are proportional to , equations ( 63 ) , ( 65 ) may be written where ( 67 ) , where ( 68 ) .
If the origin for be in the middle between the two parallel boundaries , must be an even function of , and must be an odd function .
Thus we may write . . . .
( 69 ) , .
A If the fixed walls are situated at and must vanish for these values of Eliminating from ( 70 ) the ratio of A to , we get as the equation for determining . . . . . . .
( 71 ) , in which are given as functions of by ( 67 ) , ( 68 ) .
We now introduce further approximations dependent upon the assumption that the direct influence of friction extends through a layer whose thickness is a smaU fraction only of .
On this supposition is large , and is small , so that we may put Equation ( 71 ) then becomes . . . . . . . .
( 72 ) , OF AIR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
or if we introduce the values of from ( 67 ) , ( 68 ) , .
Since is great , approximately .
Thus and ( 73 ) .
If we write ( 74 ) , which agrees with the result given in S347 ( 11 ) of my book on the Theory of Sound .
In taking approximate forms for ( 70 ) , we must distinguish which half of the symmetrical motion we contemplate .
If we choose that for which is negative , we replace and by .
For we may write unity , and for simply .
If we change the arbitrary multiplier so that the maximum value of is unity , we have ( 75 ) , in which , of course , and vanish when If in we change into , and then take the mean , we obtain ( 76 ) Although is not absolutely a real quantity , we may consider it to be so with sufficient approximation for our purpose .
If we write as before , we get from ( 76 ) in terms of real quantities nt- ( 77 ) It will shorten the expressions with which we have to deal if we measure from the wall ( on the negative side ) instead of as hitherto from the plane of symmetry , for which purpose we must write for .
Thus \mdash ; ( 78 ) From ( 78 ) approximately ( 79 ) , .
( 80 ) , terms in ( 81 ) , terms in ( 82 ) .
As in former problems the periodic terms in will be omitted .
For the nonperiodic part of of the second order , we have from ( 66 ) ( 83 ) .
In this we identify with , so that ( 84 ) , to which must be added a complementary function , satisfying , of the form { A ( 85 ) , OF AIR OBSERVED TUBES .
or as we may take it approximately , if be small compared with the wave-length ( 86 ) .
The value of to a second approximation would have to be investigated by means of ( 62 ) .
It will be composed of two parts , the first independent of , the second a harmonic function of 2 .
In calculating the part of independent of from we shall obtain nothing from .
In the remaining terms on the right-hand side it will be sufficient to employ the values of of the first approximation .
From in conjunction with ( 80 ) , we get whence It is easily seen from this that the part of resulting from is of order in comparison with the part ( 87 ) resulting from , and may be omitted .
Accordingly by ( 84 ) , with introduction of the value of and ( in order to restore homogeneity ) of . . . . .
( 87 ) , ( 88 ) ; and from ( 86 ) . . . . .
( 89 ) , ( 90 ) .
When , the complete values of and , as given by the four last equations , must vanish .
Determining in this way the arbitrary constants and , we get as the complete values at any point , ( 91 ) , ( 92 ) .
Outside the thin film of air immediately influenced by the friction we may put , and then ( 93 ) , ( 94 ) .
From ( 93 ) we see that chanoesb sign as we pass from the boundary to the plane of symmetry , the critical value of being , or The principal motion being , the loops correspond to , . .
, and the nodes correspond to , . .
Thus is positive at the nodes and negative at the loops , vanishing of course in either case both at the wall , and at the plane of symmetry To obtain the mean velocities of the rticles parallel to , we must make an addition to , as in the former problems .
In the present case the mean value of so that ( 95 ) .
When is small , ( 96 ) .
Inside the frictiona ] layer the motion is in the same direction as just beyond it .
OF AIR OBSERVED IN KUNDT'S TUBES .
We have seen that the width of the direct current along the wall is , and that of the return current ( measured up to the plane of symmetry ) , so that the direct current is distinctly narrower than the return current .
This ] be still more the case in a tube of circular section .
The point under consideration depends only upon a complementary function analogous to ( 86 ) , and is simple that it may be worth while to investigate it .
The equation for is . . . .
( 97 ) , but if we suppose that the radius of the tube is small in comparison wi.th may be omitted .
The general solution is ( 98 ) , so that whence , by the condition at .
Again whence We may take ( 99 ) .
If , when , and . . . . .
( 1 Thus vanishes , when The direct current is thus limited to an annulus of thickness , the return current occupying the whole interior , and having therefore a diameter of .

