1887 .
] The Sinuses of Valsalva and Auricular Appendices .
469 occurs , possibly owing to the presence in the solution of such reducing agents as nascent hydrogen , \amp ; c. In the present incomplete stage of the enquiry these remarks are only offered tentatively .
The effects could not be expected to be large ; I anticipate , however , generally more marked results in a more powerful magnetic field , exerting its influence , perhaps , for longer periods ; but I think the experiments now submitted appear sufficient at least to afford an indication that , under the conditions recorded , magnetisation exerts on iron , in some solutions , an appreciable effect .
The results already obtained in this direction are so far interesting as to encourage further research into the nature of this novel and subtle phenomenon .
XXVII .
" Note on the Functions of the Sinuses of Valsalva and Auricular Appendices , with some Remarks on the Mechanism of the Heart and Pulse .
" By M. Collier* Communicated by Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , Professor Superintendent of the Brown Institution .
Received June 9 , 1887(Abstract .
) The object of the paper is to disprove the present apparently accepted idea , that the sinuses of Valsalva are mere bulgings of the arterial walls , formed by a reflex current induced by the sudden closure of the semilunar valves .
The existence of a reflex current is shown to be impossible , - and the theory of the sudden opening and closure of the semilunar valves is strongly opposed .
The presence of the sinuses of Valsalva is urged as an absolute essential to the mechanism of the heart 's action .
The paper then treats of the action of the auricle and the part played by the auricular appendix , the latter being considered as the only part of the auricle that sensibly and vigorously contracts .
The causes of the first sound of the heart are next alluded to , and the theory that the closure and vibration of the tricuspid and mitral valves assist in its production is refuted .
The action of the ventricle and the mode of the injection of its contents into the aorta is dwelt upon at some length .
The latter part of the paper is devoted to the mechanism of the pulse , and an explanation is given of the so-called dicrotism .
The paper terminates with a summary of the chief points of the conclusions arrived at .

