216 Mr. V. H. Yeley .
The Conditions of the [ June 6 , Y. " The Conditions of the Reaction between Copper and Nitric Acid .
" By V. H. Yeley , M.A. , University Museum , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Odling , F.R.S. Received May 13 , 1889 .
Introduction .
About fifty years ago De La Rive* observed that pure metallic zinc blit slowly enters into reaction with dilute sulphuric acid ; shortly afterwards Faradayf confirmed this observation in the case of amalgamated zinc .
In the course of some investigations on the equivalent of this metal , Ramsay and Reynolds^ failed to obtain any hydrogen from , sulphuric acid and samples of zinc which they had purified by every possible precaution .
Thus the evolution of hydrogen from zinc and sulphuric acid depends initially upon the presence of some third substance , be it an impurity of the acid or of the metal .
Similarly RussellS has also observed that metallic silver is slowly attacked by nitric acid freed from any considerable quantity of nitrous acid , and that the rate with which the change proceeds depends upon the proportion of nitrous acid present .
Reactions between Copper and Nitric Acid .
The changes which take place when metallic copper is dissolved in nitric acid have attracted the attention of a number of investigators ; the complexity of these changes and their almost infinite variety produced by slight variations of the conditions , are evidenced by the elaborate researches of Deville , || Armstrong*^ with Ac worth and Divers.** In the present communication I have the honour of laying before the Royal Society a short and preliminary account of some experiments on the conditions necessary for a reaction to take place between metallic copper and nitric acid .
The Methods of By means of a mechanical device , described fully in another paper before the Chemical Society , spheres of the purest electrotype copper procurable were placed on a small glass dish which was kept continually revolved in dilute nitric acid ; a fairly uniform current of * 'Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 43 , 1830 , p. 425 .
+ ' Experimental Researches , ' Series YII , p. 863 .
J ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1887 ( Trans. ) , p. 854 .
S ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1874 , p. 3 .
1| ' Compt .
Rend .
, ' 70 , pp. 20 and 550 , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1877 , p. 54 .
** ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1883 , p. 443 .
1889 .
] Reaction between Copper and Nitric Acid .
carbonic acid was also passed through the liquid to ensure its perfect agitation , and thus to remove the products of the reaction from the immediate vicinity of the metal .
The nitric acid was made up in considerable quantity at a time by diluting acid of sp. gr. P41 with a suitable proportion of water ; the specific gravity of the diluted acid was taken by means of a very delicate pyknometer of the form devised by Sprengel , and the amount of free acid determined in the same portion by the ordinary process of acidimetry .
The weight of the copper sphere , as also its diameter , was determined before and after each experiment , which lasted for one hour ; from the diameters the mean area of metallic surface exposed was calculated ; thus the amount dissolved off per unit area could be directly determined .
In some earlier experiments made with a view of ascertaining this amount , it was noticed that when the sphere of copper was introduced into the acid the evolution of gas did not commence at once , but if , other conditions remaining the same , the sphere was introduced into the acid containing in small quantities the products of the reaction of a former experiment , the evolution of gas commenced immediately .
Further , the amount of copper dissolved per unit area was less in the first than in the succeeding experiments , after the products of the change had been allowed to accumulate in the acid .
This will be rendered more evident by the figures given in the table below , the first two columns of which contain the weights of two copper spheres A and B ( placed alternately in the acid ) before and after each experiment , the third the differences between these two numbers , the fourth the mean area in square millimetres , and the fifth the amounts dissolved off per unit area expressed as decimilligrams per square millimetre surface , written for the sake of brevity M/ A. In this and all succeeding experiments a long-range thermometer was used .
Table I. Sp. gr. of Acid at 19 ' compared with Water at the same Temperature = IT699 .
Percentage of free Nitric Acid = 27'53 .
Temperature 25 ' .
Weight at commencement .
1 Weight at conclusion .
Loss .
Mean area .
Value of 4-4153 ( A ) 4 -0768 0 -3385 291-95 11-60 4-5823 ( B ) 4-2 ' '49 0 3774 300-05 12-38 4-0768 ( A ) 3 -7378 0-338 275 -83 12-25 4-2049 ( B ) 3 -8465 0 -3584 283 16 12 65 3-7378 ( A ) !
3-4166 0 3125 261 -23 12-37 3-8465 ( B ) 3-5268 0-3197 266 -78 12 10 3 -4166 ( A ) 3-1188 0 2975 246 52 12 07 Mr. Y. H. Veley .
The Conditions of the [ June 6 , It will be seen from the above table that the amount dissolved off per unit area in the first experiment is less than that in the succeeding experiments , when the products of the change were present in the acid .
In another series of experiments the nitric acid used in the first operation was rejected , and another portion of the same sample was taken for the second operation ; but for those succeeding this latter was used again .
It was observed that in the first two experiments the evolution of gas did not commence immediately after the introduction of the sphere into the acid , whereas in all the succeeding experiments this was the case .
I Table IT .
Sp. gr. of Acid at 19 ' = P1643 .
Percentage of Free Nitric Acid = 27'02 .
Temperature 20 ' C. Weight at commencement .
Weight at conclusion .
Loss .
Mean area .
Value of \#151 ; .
A 4 - 762 4-6519 0-1102 313-16 3-52 4-6519 4 -5451 0-1068 307 -29 3-48 4 -5451 4-3823 0-1628 300-41 5-42 4-3823 4-2303 0 1520 293-23 5-20 4 -2303 4-0838 0 1475 286 - 77 5-29 4 -0838 3 9456 0-1383 280 15 5-05 It will be manifest from the above table that the values for the amount dissolved off per unit area on the first two experiments are concordant among themselves , as also are those of the succeeding experiments , but that those of the former are lower than those of the latter .
When copper is dissolved in nitric acid , the substance more immediately evident to the senses is cupric or cuprous nitrate or nitrite , or possibly a mixture of some of them ; at first I was inclined to the belief that the copper salt was the third substance which induced the reaction between the metal and the nitric acid to start at once .
Indeed , at a meeting of the Chemical Society I expressed this opinion in the course of a debate .
It was found subsequently that the dilute nitric acid used in the above experiments contained a small trace of nitrous acid .
Accordingly a sample of nitric acid of sp. gr. 1'41 was freed from nitrous acid by passing a rapid stream of air through it at a temperature not exceeding 35 ' C. ; during the process the acid was protected from direct sunlight .
If the temperatui'e rose to 40 ' C. , or the acid was 1889 .
] Reaction between Copper and Nitric Acid , not properly sheltered , nitrous acid was formed by the decomposition of the nitric acid at a rate faster than that at which it was oxidised by the air current .
The acid was subsequently diluted with the required quantity of water and preserved in a dark cupboard .
When 3\#151 ; 4 c.c.of this diluted acid were mixed with about 100 c.c. of water , no blue colour was produced on addition of starch and potassium iodide solutions , and the faintest possible orange tinge imparted to an aqueous solution of meta-phenylene diamine hydrochloride .
The acid was thus free from any considerable trace of nitrous acid .
Experiments similar to the above were repeated , but the current of carbonic acid omitted , in order to more precisely fix the conditions .
After introduction of a copper sphere there was no evolution of gas for three minutes , and five minutes after the reaction had set in a considerable quantity of nitrous acid was shown to be present .
As regards the production of nitrous from nitric acid under these conditions , Professor Armstrong writes , in a note appended to a paper by Dr. Divers :* " With reference to the formation of N304 during the dissolution of metals , \amp ; c. , I some time ago satisfied myself by experiment that it is produced ... .
and there is , I believe , no doubt that , whatever the nature of the reducing agent , be it hydrogen or metal , . . . .
the primary product of the reduction of nitric acid is nitrous acid .
" This observation , made some time ago , is amply confirmed by the above and succeeding experiments .
I would , therefore , merely wish to call attention to the short interval of time which elapses between the commencement of the reaction and the formation in considerable quantities of nitrous acid .
Again , when the copper sphere was introduced into the acid containing the copper salt and the nitrous acid , the evolution of gas commenced at once .
In another experiment , in which the copper sphere was previously heated and then allowed to cool in a current of hydrogen to remove any superficial coating of cupric or cuprous oxide , no gas was evolved for 1 ' 50 " after the introduction of the sphere into the acid , and 4 ' 30 " after the reaction had set in an abundance of nitrous acid was shown to be present .
At this point , Mr. Harcourt , from a recollection of some experiments by the late Sir Benjamin Brodie , suggested to me to place into the acid a substance which should remove the nitrous acid as fast as it might be formed ; urea fulfils this requirement , in that it x^eacts immediately with nitrous acid to form nitrogen and carbonic acid , according to the equation CO(NH2)2 + 2HNOo = C02 4- 2N2 + 3H20 .
Accordingly , 1 gram of urea , dissolved in 1 c.c. of water , was added to a litre of nitric acid ( sp. gr. hlr = 1T662 , percentage of * ' Cliem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1883 ( Trans. ) , p. 456 .
Mr. V. H. Veley .
T Conditions of the [ June 6 , nitric acid = 27*25 ) , into which was also placed 0 9445 gram of copper nitrate ( prepared by dissolving a few of the discarded copper spheres in dilute nitric acid , evaporating the solution over the water-bath , and twice recrystallising from water ) .
At a temperature of 25 ' C. no gas was evolved for 2 ' after insertion of the copper sphere ; it was then taken out , the liquid agitated mechanically , and the sphere again introduced ; no gas was evolved for 2 ' 50 " .
A further quantity of 2 grams urea , dissolved in 2 c.c. water , was introduced and the experiment repeated ; no gas was evolved for 7 ' 30 " .
These experiments show that even in the presence of a small quantity of copper nitrate the addition of comparatively small proportions of urea wTill temporarily prevent the solution of the copper .
It also appeared that when once the reaction had set in it could not be stopped , even though there was present in the acid more than sufficient urea to destroy the nitrous acid which might have been formed .
For after agitation of the liquid the copper was again unattacked by the acid .
If , then , the apparently purely local formation of nitrous acid could be prevented , it might be possible to prevent also any reaction between the copper and nitric acid fi*om taking place .
To test this point , 1 gram of urea dissolved in I c.c. of water was added to a litre of nitric acid taken from the same sample as that used in the preceding experiments .
The little glass dish was more quickly rotated by means of the machine , and a very rapid current of carbonic acid passed in , so that the whole liquid was kept in violent agitation .
The copper sphere was introduced , the acid being heated to 25 ' C. During an interval of one hour no gas was evolved , no blue colour imparted to the acid , no alteration of the metallic surface apparent , and the loss in weight experienced wms only 00025 gram .
Whereas , if all other conditions had remained the same , except that the nitrous acid had been initially present and had been allowed to accumulate , the loss of weight from a sphere exposing a surface of 256*85 mm. wrould have been about 0'8 gram ( calculated from the results given in Table I , the conditions of the experiments in the two cases being* practically identical ) .
This experiment might doubtless have been allowed to proceed for a longer time with the same result .
It shows , I believe , that pure copper will not dissolve pure dilute nitric acid , for though the proportion of nitric acid to that of urea present was , under these conditions , 272*5 : 1 , yet the small quantity of the latter was sufficient to completely stop the reaction .
It also appears that the dissolution of copper in nitric acid is dependent solely upon the local production of nitrous acid , effected probably by local electric circuits due to traces of impurities in the copper ; the proportion of nitrous acid initially produced is possibly also increased by a. local rise of temperature .
As regards this point Dr. Russell wrrites ( Zoc .
cit. ) :"The nitrous acid attacks the silver , 1889 .
] Reaction between Copper and Nitric Acid .
forming silver nitrite , nitric oxide , and water , the nitric oxide thus formed reducing bydric nitrate , and forming more nitrous acid .
Thus the action gets quicker and quicker .
The point stdl remaining to be explained is , then , how the first trace of nitrous acid is formed .
" My experiments , , are quite in accord with these observations .
To test the matter further , the temperature of the same sample of acid was raised to 30 C. , other experiments having shown that the amount of copper dissolved off per unit area is doubled for every 4 ' C. No gas was evolved for 4 ' after the introduction of the copper sphere , it was then taken out , and again introduced , and again no gas was evolved for 4 ' .
The loss in weight after the 8 ' insertion was only 0 0025 gram , whereas it was calculated thaf the amount dissolved off during the interval of time , supposing the urea to have been absent , would have been 0T1 gram .
Into the same liquid a further quantity of 2 grams urea , dissolved in 2 c.c. of water was added ; the acid was heated to 28 28'2 C. , no gas was evolved for 18 ' ; then as the supply of carbonic acid accidentally failed , the evolution of gas from the copper started ; the loss of weight observed was 0'0015 gram , a quantity which might well have been dissolved off during the interval of time which elapsed between the commencement of the reaction and the removal of the spheie from the acid .
During the experiment it was interesting to observe from time to time the formation of a bubble of gas on the metallic surface , which was brushed off by the rotation of .
the glass dish or the stream of carbonic acid , and consequently any further reaction stopped .
As a further confirmation another sample of acid was made up , containing a slightly greater proportion or free acid , viz. , 28 2 per cent. , sp. gr. -* 9- = 1'1723 ; a larger sphere was taken presenting an area of 322'38 sq .
mm. The acid was heated to 27 ' C. ; and 2 grams urea dissolved in 2 c.c. water were added , No gas was evolved for 50 ' , and the loss of w'eight observed wras only 0'0015 gram .
Several other similar experiments have been made with similar results , which , however , it is not considered necessary to quote .
The conclusions which I venture to think may fairly be drawn from the observations herein described are :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The view of Professor Armstrong is corroborated that the primary product of the reduction of nitric acid by copper is nitrous acid ; the latter is formed immediately after any chemical change has taken place .
( ii .
) If this initial formation of niti'ous acid be pi'evented by suitable means copper by itself will not dissolve in dilute acid by itself .
Profs .
Gf .
D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June 6 , It would follow that the production of nitric and nitrous oxides with nitrogen , in proportions varying according to the conditions , is due to subsequent changes occurring between nitrous acid and cupric or cuprous nitrate or nitrite in presence of nitric acid .
I propose to continue these researches , substituting other metals for copper , especially those which are supposed to yield primarily nitrous acid .
In conclusion , I would express my thanks to Mr. Vernon Harcourt for the suggestion which proved of so much value , and to the authorities of the University for affording me facilities for this investigation .
[ .
Postscript.\#151 ; Since the above was written experiments have been made in which the reaction between the copper and dilute nitric acid ( sp. gr. = 1 1723 ) , heated to 27 ' C. , was successfully prevented for some time , even in absence of urea , by substituting a current of air for that of carbonic acid.\#151 ; May 22nd , 1889 .
] VI .
" Notes on the Absorption-Spectra of Oxygen and some of its Compounds .
" By Gr .
D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received May 23 , 1889 .
The absorption-spectrum of oxygen has engaged attention not only on account of the important part which that element plays in the world , but because of the remarkable character of that absorption , so strongly marked , exhibiting bands of two essentially different classes , and extremely variable under varying circumstances of condensation and combination .
It may be expected that the study of it will reveal something new as to the nature of the molecular changes brought about by different circumstances , physical and chemical .
We have already published notes of some of our experiments on this subject ( 'Phil .
Mag. , ' September , 1888 ) , and these confirm generally the observations of Egoroff , Janssen , and Olszewski .
The accompanying diagram represents the absorption of 18 metres of ordinary oxygen gas at a pressure of about 97 atmospheres , that is , of a mass of oxygen rather greater than is contained in a vertical column of equal section of the earth 's atmosphere .
Under the circumstances of the experiment the absorptions A and B are very black , and the lines of which they are composed appear much broader than in the ordinary solar spectrum .
The other bands are ali diffuse at their edges , and , so far as we have observed , unresolv-able into lines .
It will be noted that the complete absorption of the

