II .
" An Eighth Memoir on Quantics .
" By Professor A. CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received January 8 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The present memoir relates mainly to the binary quintic , continuing the investigations in relation to this form contained in my Second , Third , and Fifth Memoirs on Quantics ; the investigations which it contains in relation to a quantic of any order are given with a view to their application to the quintic .
All the invariants of a binary quintic ( viz. those of the degrees 4 , 8 , 12 , and 18 ) are given in the memoirs above referred to , and also the covariants up to the degree 5 ; it was interesting to proceed one step further , viz. to the covariants of the degree 6 ; in fact , while for the degree 5 we obtain three covariants and a single syzygy , for the degree 6 we obtain only two covariants , but as many as seven syzygies .
One of these is , however , the syzygy of the degree 5 multiplied into the quintic itself , so that , excluding this derived syzygy , there remain ( 7-1 = ) six syzygies of the degree 6 .
The determination of the two covariants ( Tables 83 and 84 post .
) , and of the syzygies of the degree 6 , occupies the commencement of the present memoir .
The remainder of the memoir is in a great measure a reproduction ( with various additions and developments ) of researches contained in Prof. Sylvester 's Trilogy , and in a recent memoir by M. Hermit * .
In particular , I establish in a more general form ( defining for that purpose the functions which I call " Auxiliars " ) the theory which is the basis of Prof. Sylvester 's criteria for the reality of the roots of a quintic equation , or , say , the theory of the determination of the character of an equation of any order .
By way of illustration , I first apply this to the quartic equation ; and I then apply it to the quintic equation , following Prof. Sylvester 's track , but so as to dispense altogether with his amphigenous surface , making the investigation to depend solely on the discussion of the bicorn curve , which is a principal section of this surface .
I explain the new form which M. Hermit has given to the Tschirnhausen transformation , leading to a transformed equation , the coefficients whereof are all invariants ; and , in the case of the quintic , I identify with my Tables his cubicovariants , ( x , y ) and 02 ( x , y ) .
And in the two new Tables , 85 and 86 , I give the leading coefficients of the other two cubicovariants 03 ( x , y ) and 04 ( x , y ) .
In the transformed equation the second term ( or that in z4 ) vanishes , and the coefficient A of z3 is obtained as a quadric function of four indeterminates .
The discussion of this form led to criteria for the character of a quintic equation , expressed like those of Prof. Sylvester in terms of invariants , but of a different and less simple form ; two such sets of criteria are obtained , and the identification of these and of a third set resulting from a separate investigation , with the criteria of Prof. Sylvester , is a point made out in the present memoir .
The theory is also given of the canonical forms , which is the mechanism by which M. Hermite 's investigations were carried on .
The memoir contains other investigations and formulae in relation to the binary quintic ; and as part of the foregoing theory of the determination of the character of an equation , I was led to consider the question of the imaginary linear transformations which give rise to a real equation : this is discussed in the concluding articles of the memoir , and in an annex I have given a somewhat singular analytical theorem arising thereout .

