1886 .
] On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
III .
" On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy : Note on the Spectra of Erbia .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received Jan. 7,1886 .
I have recently succeeded in getting the earth erbia in a sufficiently pure state to allow me to examine its phosphorescent spectrum without the interference which might be produced by the presence of yttria , samaria , holmia , thulia , Ya or ytterbia .
As in the case of yttria* the spectrum is best seen when erbic sulphate is heated to redness and submitted to the electric discharge in a high vacuum .
The addition of calcic sulphate interferes with the purity of the spectrum .
In this respect erbia differs from samaria , as the latter earth seems to require the presence of some other metal to develop its phosphorescent properties .
The phosphorescent spectrum of erbia consists of four green bands , of which the following measurements have been taken :\#151 ; Scale of spectroscope .
\ X A* Remarks .
9-750 ' 5564 3230 Approximate centre of a wide band , shading off at each side .
9 -650 ' 5450 3367 Approximate centre of a band , narrower and somewhat fainter than the first band .
9-525 ' 5318 3536 Approximate centre of a narrow band , bright and moderately sharp on each side .
9-400 ' 5197 3702 Approximate centre of a band , similar in appearance to the first band , but brighter .
Fig. 1 shows the erbia phosphorescent spectrum drawn to the scale .
These bands do not correspond in position to any in either the yttrium or samarium spectrum .
The nearest approach to a coincidence is between the first erbia green and the samarium green , but when the two spectra are examined one over the other it is seen that the samarium band is less refrangible than the erbium band .
The first green of Ya occurs midway between the first and second greens of erbia , and the second Y a.green comes between the second and third erbia greens .
Pure erbia is of a beautiful rose-pink colour.f When illuminated * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 174 , p. 913 , par .
71 .
+ Rose-coloured erbia has already been obtained by Professor Cleve , who a year ago presented me with a specimen of the earth as pure as the one which is the subject of this paper .
On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
[ Jan. 21 , by sun .
or electric light and examined in the spectroscope it gives a spectrum of black lines and bands as sharp and distinct as the Fraunhofer lines .
Fig. 2 shows the erbia spectrum by reflection .
It is strange that this most characteristic property has been recorded by so few observers .
Indeed , the only notice of it I have come across is a passing remark of Professor Cleve 's that " the light reflected by dry erbia shows absorption-bands .
" Fig. 3 shows the absorption spectrum given by a solution of pure erbic chloride .
It differs in some respects from the drawings mapped from older observations , as the absorption lines of holmia and thulia are absent .
The fine group of lines in the green of the reflection spectrum is also absent in the absorption spectrum .
The spectrum of bright lines emitted when erbia is rendered incandescent in the blowpipe flame has been often observed , but the 1880 .
] The Clark Cell a Standard of Electromotive Force .
79 lines in this case are luminous on a fainter continuous background and are not particularly sharp , whilst the reflection spectrum consists of black lines sharply defined on a continuous spectrum .
The spectrum emitted by incandescent erbia is shown in fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 shows the characteristic lines in the spark spectrum of erbium , taken from a concentrated acid solution of erbic chloride , with a Leyden jar in a shunt circuit .
I have thought it advisable to give these five spectra of erbium , as they show how entirely different the phosphorescent spectrum is to any other spectrum given by this element .
IV .
" On the Clark Cell as a Standard of Electromotive Force .
" By the Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received January 7 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) This paper , supplementary to that " On the Electrochemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells , " * gives the further history of the cells there spoken of , and discusses the relative advantages of various modes of preparation .
The greatest errors arise from the liquid failing to be saturated with zinc sulphate , in which case the electromotive force is too high .
The opposite error of s^per-saturation is met with in certain cases , especially when the cells have been heated during or after charging .
Experiments are detailed describing how cells originally supersaturated have been corrected , and how in others the electromotive force has been reduced by the occurrence of supersaturation consequent on heating .
If these errors be avoided , as may easily be done ; if the mercury be pure ( preferably distilled in vacuo ) , and if either the paste be originally neutralised ( with zinc carbonate ) , or a few weeks be allowed to elapse ( during which the solution is supposed to neutralise itself ) , the electromotive force appears to be trustworthy to Tffo'fr Park This conclusion is founded upon the comparison of a large number of cells prepared by the author and by other physicists , including Dr. Alder Wright , Mr. M. Evans , Dr. Fleming , Professor Forbes , and Mr. Threlfall .
As regards temperature coefficient , no important variation has been discovered in saturated cells , whether prepared by the author or by others .
In all cases we may take with abundant accuracy for ordinary applications\#151 ; E=l-435{1- 0-00077(*\#151 ; 15 ' ) } , the temperature being reckoned in centigrade degrees .
For purposes of great delicacy it is advisable to protect the standards from large * " Phil. Trans. , " yol .
175 , 1884 .

