II .
" On the Molecular Properties of Antimony .
" By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) Antimony may be readily deposited by the electro-process from either of the following liquids:-5 parts of tartar-emetic and 5 parts of tartaric acid dissolved in a mixture of 2 parts of hydrochloric acid and 30 parts of water ; or 3 or 4 parts of tartar-emetic dissolved in 1 part of the ordinary chloride of antimony .
The metallic deposits obtained from these two liquids differ greatly in appearance , in structure , and in physical properties : that obtained from the first liquid has a silver-grey colour and frosted surface , is hard in texture , and has a beautiful radiating crystalline structure ; whilst that obtained from the second liquid has the colour and appearance of highly polished steel , and has a bright metallic amorphous fracture .
The specific gravity of the former is 6'55 , whilst that of the latter is 5'78 , both being somewhat variable in this respect .
The electro-chemical equivalent of the crystalline variety , after deducting a small portion of gas contained in it , is about 40*2 ; and of the amorphous kind , after deducting a much larger per-centage of gas and of chloride of antimony , which it always contains , the same ; but the equivalents actually obtained , including those substances , were 40 7 for the crystalline and 43'3 for the amorphous variety .
Amorphous antimony was found to be electro-positive to the crystalline kind , both in acids and alkalies ; it was also thermoelectro-positive to that substance ; and both reduced silver by immersion in a solution of nitrate of silver .
Both these substances when deposited are in unequal states of cohesive tension at their two surfaces , frequently in so great a degree as to rent the metal in all directions .
But the most remarkable circumstance , and of which a brief account was published in the Philosophical Magazine , January 1855 , is , that amorphous antimony is liable , by percussion or heat , to undergo a rapid and intense molecular change throughout its mass , consisting apparently of a violent commotion amongst its particles , similar , but in a much higher degree , to the changes already observed by other experimentalists in sulphur , selenium , iodide of mercury , &amp;c. , and attended by evolution of an extraordinary amount of heat , sufficient , when the substance is massive , to raise its temperature from 60 ?
to upwards of 450 ?
Fahr. , melting in several instances bars of tin and other metals .
During the action the chloride of antimony and a portion of the gas are expelled by the heat , and the substance loses its remarkable property .
After the action the antimony is found to have undergone no oxidation , but to have considerably altered in its physical characters ; it has lost its steel-bright colour and become comparatively grey , and has acquired a dull grey granular fracture ; its specific gravity has also increased , and it has evidently passed a considerable stage towards the condition of the other variety .
The grey metal undergoes no such change .
By careful trituration of thin pieces of the amorphous metal under cold water , it has been obtained in the state of a fine powder possessing the same molecular property .
The chloride of antimony adheres to the metal with considerable force , and is only partly removed by digesting the powder in dilute hydrochloric acid for a week ; and the gas contained in both varieties is only expelled by pressing them .
III .
" Researches on the Structure and Homology of the Reproductive Organs of the Annelids .
" By THOMAS WILLIAMS , M.D. , F.L.S. , Physician to the Swansea Infirmary .
Communicated by THOMAS BELL , Esq. , F.R.S. , Pres. L.S. Received October 21 , 1857 .
The present communication is a revision of a paper by the author , which was read on the 12th of February , 1857 , under which date an Abstract is given .
December 17 , 1857 .
Major-General SABINE , Treasurer and V.P. , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " Observations on the Poison of the Upas Antiar .
" By Professor ALBERT KOLLIKER , of Wiirzburg .
Communicated by Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. Received December 1 , 1857 .
During my stay in Enlgland , in the autumn of 1857 , I was so fortunate as to acquire the rare poison of the famous Antiaris toxicaria ( Lesch .
) , with which no experiments have been tried since the time of Magendie , Brodie , Horsfield , and Schnell and Emmert ( 1 8091815 ) .
I owe my specimens of the Antiar poison to my friend Prof. Christison , of Edinburgh , who had it from Borneo , and to Dr. Horsfield , of London , who collected it himself during his stay at Java in the beginning of this century ; and as both specimens were fully active-as some preliminary experiments made in company with my friends Dr. Sharpey and Dr. Alien Thomson showed-I thought it well worth while to devote some time to the study of the poison , and to try to elucidate its manner of action on the animal organism .
The following are the principal results which I obtained in my experiments with frogs , and I hope that they will not be deemed unworthy of notice by those who take an interest in the physiological action of poisons in general .

