I. " Notes on the Chemical Geology of the Gold-fields of California .
" By J. ARTHUR PHILLIPS .
ComumLLnicated by Prof. A. C. RAMSAY .
Received Februalry 22 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) Roclks of the Gold-Regions of California.-The great sedimentary n1etallic belt of California lies on the westeril slope of the Sierra Nevada , beginning in the neighbourhood of the Trejou Pass , and extending througKh the state to its northern limit .
In conisequeence , however , of various local circumstances , different portions of this band are of very uiequal imporltance as gold-producing districts .
TIhe slates of the auriferotus belt have been shown by Professor Whitniey to belong , for a great extenit , to the Jtrassic period , although the occurrence of numerous Triassic fossils in the gold-bearing rocks of Plumas County and elsewhere renders it more than probable that no inconside.able portion of the slates in the heart of the gold region are of that age .
The rock constituting the principal mass of the Sierra Nevada is a granite containing only a small proportion of quanrtz , and in which but one species of felspar ( oligoclas- ) is generally found .
Lying between the band of metamorphic slates and the great central mass of granite forming the more elevatel portionis of the chain , ale fournd various crystalline rocks , such as syenites , diorites , and porphyries .
Quart Veins.-The matrix or gangue of the auriferous veins of Califorinia is invariably quartz , which is genierally crystalline in its structure , or paritially vitreous and semitransparent .
In the majority of cases the quartz constituting an auriferous -veinstone is ribbonied in .
such a wav as to form a succession of layers paraliel with the walls of the lode itself ; and some one or more of these laminD are not unfrequently far more productive than all the others .
In sorme instances these parallel bands are separated from each other by a thini layer of quartz , slightly differing , either in colour or structuir- , from that forming the sea-i is themselves ; or they may be only distinguished by a differenice of colour of two adjoining mnembers of the series .
Ila many cases , however , laminr .
of the enclosing slates divide the vein into distinct bands ; aild in such instances it will be observed that the thickness of the interposed frag , ments of slate is sometimes not greater thant that of a sheet of the thinnest paper .
Cavities or druses containing crystals of quartz occur in all the auriferous veins of the coun-try ; and a certain amount of crystallization mrlay also not unfrequently be remarked along the lines of junction of the several bands of which a vein is composed .
In addition to ordinary quartz , in a more or less crystalline form , amorphous hydrated silica , or semiopal , and chalcedony are occasionally mllet with : in some instances the opal is interfoliated between layers of true quartz , and is sufficiently auriferous to repay the expenses of treatmenit .
The metallic minerals eiiclosed in the gan:gue of auriferous veins are ordinary iron pyrites , blende , and galena , and , less frequenitly , arsenical pyrites , magnetic and copper pyrites , and cinlnabar .
These sulphides invariably contain gold ; and veins in which some one or more of them does not occur , in considerable amounts , are not regularly and lastilngly productive .
Near the surface the iron pyrites and other sulphides become decomposed by the action of air and the percolation of meteoric water through the mass , staining the quartz of a red or brown colotur , and leaving the goli in a free state .
Under such circumstances numerous cubical moulds of iron pyrites are found in the veinstolie ; and although this mineral has beeni entirely removed by chemical action , the cavities left contain finely divided gold , obviously liberated by the d-ecomposition of pyrites .
Beneath the line of natural drainiage of the counitry the sulphides remain unidecomposed ; but if rock containing pyrites be placed in nitric acid the snilphide becomes dissolved , and finely divided , crystalline , or filiform gold will partially occupy the resulting c(avities .
In one of the detrital beds in the vicinity of the villago of Volcano in the Ciounty of Amador , and elsewhere , distinictly marked quartz veilns may be observed cutting through the gravel , and evidently formied by the action of water holding silica in solution .
Attention has also beenl recenitly directedl to bands of auriferous slate founid in the copper-bearin0 belt west of the main gold-belt of the State and in the foot hills of the Sierra .
In this locality the gold , instead of being obtainedl from a well-defined vein , chiefly composed of ordinary quartz , is enclosed in a band of siliceous slaty rock , exteniding north-west and south-east , and dipping in coniformity with the other strata of the district .
The number of fluid-cavities conitained in the veinstones of the auriferonus lodes of California is seen under the microscope to be exceedilngly limited ; and in or 1er to obt in sections affording good examples , even of small size , it is necessary to select such bands as may be more than ordiniarily crvs talline , or to operate on thinl fragmuents of crystals sometimes founid lining the initerior of drusy cavities .
In the more opaque and generally most auriferous portions of veins , the cavities are numerous but exceedingly snmall , and are often so opaque , apparently relndered so by being internally coated with a lining of clay , that no vacuities can be distinguished .
Out of more than fifty sections of veinstone examinied , only some six or seven were found to contain fluid-cavities of sufficient size to admit of any attempt at accurate measurement by means of ordiniary appliances ; but in all cases there appeared to be considerable differences in the relative dimensions of the vacuities and the enclosing cavities , and the temperatures at which they severally became filled were consequenitly ascertained by direct experiment .
In every instance they were found to require very different degrees of heat to become full , since in the same specimens some of the vacuities disappeared at 180 ?
Fahr. , others filled at temperatures slightly above that of boiling water , whilst many , though much reduced in size , remained perfectly visible at 365 ' Fahr. Alluvial Deposits.-Although a very large amount of the gold annually obtained was no doubt originally derived from auriferous veins , not more than about one-third of the precious metal collected is procured directly from that souirce .
The larger proportion of the gold now brought into the market is derived from alluvial diggings , in which it is separated by washing from the clay , sand , and gravel with which it is associated .
This gold-bearing drift belongs to at least two distinct geological epochs , both comparatively modern-although the latter period is distinctly separated from the earlier , its materials being chiefly derived from the disintegration and redistribution of the older deposits .
In California the more ancient deposits or " deep placers " are referable to a river-system different from that which now exists , flowing at a higher level , and frequentlv nearly at right angles to the direction of the main valleys of the present period .
The deep placers are in many localities covered by a thick capping of lava ; and the eruiptive matter covering them often occurs in the form of basaltic columns , beneath which are found the layers of sand , gravel , and boulders with which the gold is associated .
The wood which occurs in these gravel-beds is either beautifully silicifieed , or is replaced by iron pyrites .
In the more clayey strata of these deposits leaf-beds and impressions of leaves are not unfrequentlv found ; and an examination of these made by Dr. Newberry authorizes the conclusion that the auriferous deposits lving beneath the lava are of tertiary age , and that they probably belong to the later Pliocene epochli Water-worn gold is disseminated throughout the whole mass of these deposits , not , however , with uniformity , but always in greater abundance near the bottom , and more particularly in direct contact with the " bed rock , " which is invariably grooved and worn by the action of water .
The materials of which these deep placers are composed are frequently consolidated into a sort of hard concrete , by being firmly bounid together by crystallinie iron pyrites ; and sometimes this cementing material consists either of carboonate of lime or silica .
The silica is rarely met with in a crystalline form ; but near Kenebeck Hill a ca-vity , resulting from the junction of several pebbles , was found completely lined with well-defined crystals of quartz .
These did not show , under the microscope , the usuial fluidcavities of quartz of the ordinary quartz veins of the country .
Where the cementing material of the conglomerate chiefly cornsists of pyrites , the enclosed trunks of trees are usually replaced by that mineral , although , of two pieces of wood lying in close proximity to each other , one may have become silicified , whilst the other is replaced by iron pyrites .
The assay of several specimens of the cementing pyrites showed that it invariably contained a certain but very variable amount of gold .
In order to ascertain whether this exists in the form of water-worn grains mechanically enclosed within the sulphide , or in the form of spongy , crystalline , and filamentary particles , simiilar to those met with in the pyrites of auriferous veins , various samples were dissolved in nitric acid , and the residues afterwards subjected to microscopical examination .
In this way granules of the precious metal , which had evidently been worn by the action of water , were detected , whilst others appeared not to have been subjected to such attrition .
Mr. Ulrich states that in the gold-drifts of Australia pyrites is often found replacing roots and driftwood , and that samples have , on assay , yielded from a few pennyweights to several ounces of gold per ton .
Hot Springsq.-Hot and boiling springs are exceedingly numerous throughout Californiia ; and considerable accumulations of sulphur , together with evidences of extensive solfatara actionl , are met with in different sections of the State .
The most remarkable instance on the Pacific coast of the actual growtb , on a large scale , and at the present time , of mineral veins is probably that afforded by the boiling springs in Steamnboat Valley , about seven miles north-west of the great Comstock silver veirn in the State of Nevada .
These springs are situated at a height of about 5000 feet above the level of the sea , at the foot of the eastern declivity of the Sierra Nevada .
The rock in this locality presents several straight and parallel fissures , either giving out heated water or simply ejecting steam .
The first group of crevices comprises five longitudinial springs extending in a straight line , and parallel to each other , for a distance of above 3000 feet .
These fissures are partially filled by a siliceous incrustation , which is being constaiitly deposited on the sides , whilst a lonigitudinial central crevice allows of the escape of boiling water or steam .
On the most eastern of these lines of fracture are five active centres of eruption , from which boiling water is sometimes ejected by the force of steam to a height of from 8 to 10 feet .
These waters are alkaline , and contain , in acldition to carbonate of soda , the sulphate of that base , together xxith chloride of sodiuim .
There is also everywhere an escape of carbonic acid , whilst from some places sulphuretted hydrogen is also evolved .
These products , on arriving at the surface , give rise to the depositioni of sulphur , silica , and allhydrous oxide of iron .
The silica and oxide of iron form semicrystalline bands parallel with the walls of the fissures ; and spongy deposits accumu-late around some of the points of most active emergence .
At a considerable distance to the west of those above described , a fissuire having the same origin is observed ; but this is nio longer traversed by currents of hot water , although it still gives off steanm and carbonic acid at various points throughout its extent .
At its northern extremity a cenitral fissure still remains open ; but in other localities it is , for the most part , obstructed by siliceous concretious .
This siliceous rock is metalliferous , and , in addition to oxide of iron and maniganese , contains iron and copper py-^ rites .
A{ .
Laur states that he also discovered metallic gold in this deposit .
The rock enclosing the veins of Steamboat springs is granite , which in their vicinity is much decomposed , being often reduced to a cavernous skeleton of silica containing a few scales of mica .
Alkcaline Lakes.-Ini that portion of California lying on the east of the Sierra Nevada are Monio Lake and Owen 's Lake , both cornsiderable sheets of water , highly impregnated with alkaline salts .
Owen 's Lake lies in lat. 36'20 " south , long .
1180 west from Greenwich , and is about twenty miles in length and eight in width .
The waters of this lake have a specific gravity of 1.076 , and contain 7128 24 grs. of solid matter per gallon .
The salts held in solution are chiefly carbonate and sulphate of soda , with chloride of sodium ; but potash , silica , and phosphoric acid are also present .
The incrustations , which at certaini seasons of the year are found to the extent of many hundreds of tonls , consist of a white sponigy effloresceeice , and are , as will be seen from the results of the analysis given in the paper , chiefly composed of carbonate of soda , mixed with a little chloride of sodiuim and sulphate of soda .
General deductions.-The author remarks that , in the present state of our knowledge , theresults of a careful examination of the gold-regions of the Pacific coast would appear to lead to the following conclusionis : v a. Quartz veins have generally been produced by the slow deposition from aqueous solutions of silica on the surfaces of the enclosing fissures .
6 .
From the general parallelism with its walls of the planies of any fragments of the enclosing rock which may have become imbedded in a vein , it is to be inferred that they were mechanically removed by the growth of the several layers to which they adhered , and that a subsequent deposition of quartz took place between them and the rock from which they had become detached .
In this way were introduced the masses of rock known as " horses.j " e. The formation of quartz veins is due to hydrothermal agencies , of which evidences are still to be founid in the hot springs and recent metalliferous veins met with in various parts of the Pacific coast .
d. From the variable temperatures at which the vacuities in their fluidcavities become filled , it may be inferred that they are the result of an intermittent action , and that the fissures were sometimes traversed by currents of hot water , whilst at others they gave off aqueous vapour or gaseous exhalations .
This is precisely what is now taking place at Steamboat springs , where the formationi of a veini is in progress , and from which currents of boiling water are often poured forth , whilst at other times the fissures give off currents of steam and heated gases only .
e. That gold may be deposited from the same solutions which give rise to the formation of the enclosing quartz , appears evident from the presence of that metal in pyrites enclosed in siliceous incrustations , as well as from the fact of large quantities of gold having been found in the interior of the stems of trees , which in deep diggings are often converted into pyrites .
f. The constant presence of iron pyrites in auriferous veins , and when so occurring its invariably containing a certain amount of gold , suggests the probability of this sulphide beingin some way necessarily connected with the solvent by which the precious metal was held in solution .
It has been shown that finely divided gold is soluble in the sesquichloride of iron and , more sparingly , in the sesquisulphate of that metal .
It is also well known that iron pvrites sometimes results from the action of reducing agents on the sulphates of that metal .
If therefore sulphate of iron , in a solution containing gold , should become transformed by the action of a reducing agent into pyrites , the gold , at the same time being reduced to the metallic state , would probably be found enclosed in the resulting crystals of that mineral .
g. The silica and other substances forming the cementing material of the ancient auiriferous river-beds have probably been slowly deposited at a low temperature .
The connexion existing between the decomposition of granite by the agency of boiling springs , the existence of alkaline plains , and the formationo f lakes containing variouis salts of soda and potash , is too obvious to require comment .

