" On the Spectrum of Comet II .
, 1868 .
" By WILLIAM HUGGINS , F.R.S. Received July 2 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The author describes the appearance of the comet in the telescope on June 22 to consist of a nearly circular coma , which became rather suddenly brighter towards the centre , where there was a nearly round spot of light .
A tail was traced for nearly a degree .
He found the light of the comet , when examined with a spectroscope , furnished with two prisms of 60 ?
, to be resolved into three broad bright bands .
The brightest band commences at about b , and extends nearly to F. Another band begins at a distance beyond F , rather greater than half the interval between b and F. The third band occurs about midway between D and E. In the two more refrangible of these bands the light was brightest at the less refrangible end , and gradually diminished towards the other limit of the bands .
The least refrangible of the three bands did not exhibit a similar gradation of brightness .
These bands could not be resolved into lines , nor was any light seen beyond the bands towards the violet and the red .
The measures of these bands are given , and a diagram of their appearance .
The author found this cometic spectrum to agree exactly with a form of the spectrum of carbon which he had observed and measured in 1864 .
When an induction spark , with Leyden jars intercalated , is taken in a current of olefiant gas , the highly heated vapour of carbon exhibits a spectrum which is somewhat modified from that which may be regarded as typical of carbon .
The light is of the same refrangibilities , but the separate strong lines are not to be distinguished .
The shading , composed of numerous fine lines , which accompanies the lines appears as an unresolved nebulous light .
On June 23 the spectrum of the comet was compared directly in the spectroscope with the spectrum of the induction spark taken in a current of olefiant gas .
The three bands of the comet appeared to coincide with the corresponding bands of the spectrum of carbon .
In addition to an apparent identity of position , the bands in the two spectra were very similar in their general characters and in their relative brightness .
These observations were confirmed on June 25 .
The remarkably close resemblance of the spectrum of the comet with that of the spectrum of carbon , necessarily suggests the identity of the substances by which in both cases the light was emitted .
The great fixity of carbon seems , indeed , to raise some difficulty in the way of accepting the apparently obvious inference from these prismatic observations .
Some comets have approached sufficiently near the sun to acquire a temperature high enough to convert even carbon into vapour .
In the case of other comets , the author suggests that the difficulty is one of degree only , for the conditions are not known under which even a gas permanent at the temperature of the earth could maintain sufficient heat to emit light .
The author states that some phosphorescent substances give spectra which are discontinuous , but he gives reasons which would scarcely permit us to consider cometary light to be of a phosphorescent character .
The spectrum shows that the colour of this comet was bluish green .
Considerable difference of colour has been remarked in the parts of some comets .
Sir William Herschel described the head of the comet of 1811 to be of a greenish or bluish-green colour , while the central point appeared of a ruddy tint .
The same colours have been observed in other comets .
If carbon be the substance of some comets , this substance , if incandescent in the solid state , or reflecting , when in a condition of minute division , the light of the sun , would afford a light which , in comparison with that emitted by the luminous vapour of carbon , would appear yellowish or approaching to red .
The author refers to the bearing of these results on certain cometary phenomena , and on the apparent identity of the orbits of the periodical meteors with those of some comets .

