]\gt ; of a Circle , J. ' Amphibien ' Arb . .
Inst. ' vol. 3 , pp. 1\mdash ; 114 , 1876 .
, ' Hnndbuc der Anatomy .
Wirbeltlriere ' ( Autlage ) , I. Buch .
Die W. , : ' On the Pori Abdominales of some Shal.ks , \ldquo ; ' Journ. Anat .
' vol. 14 , p. 101 , 1879 .
Veber , der Salmoniden , nebst Bemerkungen uber die gane d ' Fische ' vol. 12 , pp. 366\mdash ; 406 , 1886 .
the tion of the Coefficient of lIutual Induction of il Circle Coaxial Helix , and of the Electromagnetic between a Helical Current a Uniform Coaxial Circular rent Sheet By J. JONES ; .
Received November 12 , \mdash ; Bead December 9 .
1897 .
( Abstract .
) S 1 .
Lot be the coefficient of mutual inducion of a circle and a a coax ial helix , beginning in the plane of the circle and of helical angle .
Then if is the coefficient of mutual induction of the circlc , any of the helix for which the extreme points def by 1nelical nglcs and , we have It ) } ill ) be sufficient to show to calculate for all values of Let the tions to the circle and coaxial helix be A A .
/ it 1 been shown by the author* may be expressed the ] series which is convergent if ' * ' Phil. Mag January , 1889 .
Mr. J. .
Jones .
On the Calculation of the S2 .
Putting so that it is now further proved that where Hence we see that the series is a recurring series .
The relation above given between , and materially faoilitates the calculation of successive terms of the series .
S.3 .
If we put an then S 4 .
The is more general expression of in of elliptic rals applioable for all values of where ) of ( Circle , of the third kind is expressible by means of Le .
in of elliptic als of the first and secolld incomplete , and may so be lculated S before it is that $ of a rent n uniornl Current shect ( the current in to the ) is identically same the m of the circul current and helical of ) and xial dimensions , tho c , f , if the cTtrrent across a Iength of to the pitch of the helix is equal to the curreut .
S7 .
TLc eutial } of a helical current miform rent sheet , or of uniform cyliudricnl shcets is sible ill of elliptic S 8 .
nctic force } hclical and rent sheet is by the where iu the unit lcng th of a generating line of the sheet , * ' " " \ldquo ; S ' .
LXII .
250 Profs .
J. .
and J. A. E'leming .
lectric stonts , M2 are the coefficients of mutual inducbion of the circular ends of the sheet and bbe hclix .
Hcnce calculation of this force reduccs itself to a double of the formulae for the coefficient of inducbion of a ci rele and coaxial ] It is hoped that may form a method of the .
of urrent w to me rent in absolute units .
' .
on some further Determinntions of the Dielectric stants of ganic Rodies and ectrolyt e very Lo \ldquo ; By JAIJES DEWAR , 11.A .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of istry in the Insbitution , and J. A. , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. , of Elecical E University College , London .
ccived Octobe 8 , \mdash ; 1iead December 1897 .
In se eral p commuuications*we have described the investions m by us on the dielecbric constants of ious frozeu auic bodies and electrolytes at very low mperatul e. In these carches we employed a method for tho , measurement of dielectric coIlstant w consisted in and condenser , .
bhe given body as ] ectric , through a meter 120 limes in a second by means of a tuning -fork interrupter .
the past summor we have rep some of these determina- used a different method of measurement and a there quency .
In the here described we have adopted 's method for the measurement of dielectric constants , using this purpose the apparatus as arl.anged by Dr. Narnst which clongs to Davy-Faraday .
The frequency of alterl)ation employed or thereabouts , whereas in all our formerly scribed experiments with the alvanometer method it was 120 .
The details of the arrangement employed Nerllst'H lncthod arc as follows : 's bridge is formed ( Fee , two sides of which consist of val'iable resistances , ich are usually liquid resistances contained in -tubes .
The othe ] sides of the consist of two sliding condensers of varial ) acity , , which are by adjustable ]iquid .
The bridge circuit contains a telephone , , as detector ents are furnished by an induction coil , T An experimental condenser , , the dielectric of which can be made eming .
Devrar , Proc. , vol. 61 ,

