]\gt ; Prof. J. Zeleny .
The Velocity of DESCRIPTION OF A. Solar spectrum , purposely out of focus .
B. Aquilae .
C. Arietis , purposely out of focus .
D. Arietis , in focus .
The photographs of the spectrum of Aquilae whioh have been Kensington since were nearly all taken Messrs. owler , Baxand\amp ; u Shackleton , and North .
Mr. Baxandall has assisted in the determination of ' origins .
The photographic plate has been prepared from the original negatives Sapper Wilkio , The Velocity of Ions produced in Gases by ontgen Rays By JOHN ZELENY , B.Sc. , B.A. , Assistant Professor of Physics , University of Minnesota .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOIIISON , F.RS .
eceived February March 1 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The sum of the velocities with which the positive and the negative ions that are produced in gases ) the Rontgen rays move when in a lmit electric field has already been determined by an indirect method : E. Rutherford .
* In the experiments here described the velocity ' was determined in a number of for the positive and negative lons separately , by comparing the ionic velocity directly that of stream of gas .
The stream of gas was made to flow between two concentric cylinders , which were maintained at different potentials .
By passing a narrow beam of Rontgen rays through the cylinders right angles to their length , a narrow layer of ionised gas was produced .
Due to the electric field between the two cylinders , the ions ' of.this layer tended to move radially towards , or away from , the axis of the cylinders , but at the same time they were carried along by the !
stream of gas .
Of the ions of this layer which travelled inwards , those that started from the inner surface of the outer were carried a distance X by the gas stream before they reached the surface of the inner cylinder .
This distance is dependent directly upon the mean velocity of the gas stream , and inversely upon the difference of potential between the two .
For obtaining the difference of potential which mtlst be used to allow the ions to be carried a certain distance along the tubes by the gas stream the inner cylinder was divided at some distance from the beam of rays into two parts , insulated from each * E. Butherford , ' .
Mag November , 1897 .
the Ions by ) other .
That one of these parts which was not traversed by the rays was connected to a pair of quadrants of an electrometer , so that it was possible to tell when any ions reached it .
A series of readings was taken for the charge reaching the electrometer in a given time for different values of the potential of the outer cylinder .
From this was determined the value of this potential for which the ions starting from the outer edge of the ionised layer were just able to reach the iuncture in the inner cylinder .
The ionic velocity in a unit electric field is given by the equation\mdash ; where is the mean velocity of the gas stream between the cylinders , is the inner radius of the outer cylinder , is the outer radius of the inner cylinder , A is the potential of the outer cylinder , corresponding to X the distanoe defined above .
To avoid the presence of vortices in the gas at the place where it was exposed to the rays , a sufficiently small velocity was used , and the gas was previously passed through a long portion of the cylinder to allow .
the motion to assume a steady state .
The disturbing influence upon the electric field between the cylinde]s of the free charges formed in the gas during the conduction diminished by using weak rays .
The fall of potential at the was also reduced by this means .
For diminishing the amount of ionisation due to the secondary radiation produced at the metal stlrface , the cylinders were made of aluminium , for which metal the effect is the least .
The spreading of the ions due to diffusion produces an error , the amount of which increases with the time required for the ions to travel between the two cylinders .
The value of this time is found from the equation , where X and have the same significance as above .
The experimental values obtained for the velocity decreased as increased , and from a series of results with differcnt values of the velocity could be obtained corresponding to O. Since in that case the effects of diffusion and similar causes disappear , this result was taken as the desired value of the ionic velocity .
For testing the accuracy of the method , in addition to using differelll values of and X , changes were also made in the intensity of the rays , in the diameter of the internal cylinder , and in the metal which formed the inner surface of the outer cylinder .
Determinations were made with the gases when dry and wheIl satu * J. Zeleny , ' Camb .
Pbil .
Soc. Proc vol. 10 , Part I , p. 17 .
J. Perrin .
' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 124 , p. 455 .
in the two cases .
This is in agreement with the effect of moistun upon the coefficients of diffusion of the ions , as observed by J. Townsend.* A summary of the results obtained is given in the follow .
ing table .
The results are reduced to a pressure of 76 cm .
of but are not corrected for temperature , the effect of which is not known .
Ionic Velocities .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Bvotution .
241 here obtained .
The value obtained by E. Rutherford* for the velocity the negative ions produced in dry carbonic acid ( cm .
per second ) by the action of ultra-violet light , is quite near to that here obtained 0.81 cm .
per second ) for the ions produced by Rontgen rays , but his values for dry air ( cm .
per second ) and dry hydrogen cm .
per second ) are considerably smaller .
In discharge from points , A. P. Chattock has obtained for the velocities of the positive and negative ions in dry air 413 and 540 cm .
per second respectively for a field of 1 E.S.U. per cm .
, which values are quite close to those obtained here for the ions produced by Rontgen rays .
J. S. Townsend has shown that from the coefficients of diffusion of ions and from their velocities it is possible to compare the charges carried by the different ions , and also to compare them with those carried by the ions in the electrolysis of liquids .
By using the velocities given above with the coefficients of diffusion determined by J. S. Townsend , the values of No are obtained , being the number of molecules in 1 .
of the gas and the charge carried by each ion .
The results thus obtained for the moist gases , air , oxygen , and hydrogen , perhaps justify the statement that the charges carried by the positive and the ions are equal , and that the charge is the same for the different gases , and is equal to the charge carried by the hydrogen ion in the electrolysis of liquids .
The values of No obtained for the positive ions in these gases when dry are considerably larger than the above , while in carbonio acid all of the results are over 20 per cent. smaller .
" " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
VIII .
On the of Characters not Quantitatively Measurable By KAlL PEARSON , .
Received February 7 , \mdash ; Read March 1 , 1900 .
( From the Department of Applied Mathematics , University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
In August last I presented to the Society a memoir on the inheritance of coat-colour in thoroughbred horses , and of eye-colour in man .
This memoir , which was read in November of last year , presented the novel feature of determining correlation between characters which were not capable priori of being quantitatively measured .
The theoretical * E. Rutherford , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 9 , Part VIII .
A. P. Chattock , ' Phil. Mag November , 1899 .
J. S. Townsend , ' Phil. Trans , vol. , 1899 .

