II .
" On Appold 's Apparatus for regulating Temperature and keeping the Air in a Building at any desired degree of Moisture .
" By J.P. GASSIOT , Esq. , V.P.R.S. Received May 3 , 1866 .
Those Fellows of the Royal Society who were acquainted with the late Mr. John George Appold , have often expressed their admiration at the various scientific arrangements which he from time to time adapted to his dwellinghouse in Wilson Street , Finsbury Square .
However intense might be the frost of winter or the heat of summer , or the brilliancy of the gas with which his rooms were lighted , when once under his hospitable roof you enjoyed a pure and refreshing atmosphere .
Much of this was undoubtedly due to the steam-power he always had at command connected with his business premises immediately adjacent to his dwelling-house , by which he could at any time force a current of fresh air at a given temperature into any of his rooms ; indeed Mr. Appold always contended that houses could not be made thoroughly comfortable as habitations without the aid of steam-power .
But among the many of his arrangements to obtain equable temperature in rooms , there were also those that do not require the aid of steam-power , so seldom applicable in private dwellings , and which , being easy of adaptation , might be used in private houses with much advantage as regards the health and comfort of the inmates .
I allude to his Automatic Temperature regulator , and to his Automatic Hygrometer ; and these instruments , as originally constructed by her late husband , and used for many years in their house , but now repaired and placed in perfect working order by Mr. Browning , Mrs. Appold has requested me to offer in her name to the President and Council of the Royal Society .
She desires me to express a hope that they will oblige her by retaining them among the other scientific apparatus belonging to the Royal Society , as a mark of respect to the memory of one who always highly esteemed the honour he received when he was elected into that body in June 1853 .
I annex a description and drawing of both instruments ( Plate VII ) .
Appold 's apparatus for regulating the temperature of buildings automatically .
This instrument consists of a glass tube having bulbs at each end .
The 144 [ May 17 , tube is filled , as also about half of each bulb , with mercury ; the lower bulb containing ether to the depth of half an inch , which floats on the mercury .
The tube is secured to a plate of boxwood , and supported on knife-edges , on which it turns freely .
At the end of the plate , underneath the highest bulb , is a lever , to which a string is attached .
This string is carried , by means of bell-cranks , to the supply-valve of a gas-stove , or the damper of a furnace .
The instrument acts in the following manner:-Supposing the stove to be lighted and to have raised the temperature more than is required , the heat will convert a portion of the ether in the lower bulb into vapour .
The expansion of this vapour drives a quantity of the mercury out of the bulb underneath it through the tube into the upper bulb .
The end to which the mercury has been driven being thus rendered the heaviest falls , and motion being communicated by the lever to the string , this closes the supply-valve or damper of the stove or furnace .
Of course , if this should be carried beyond the required extent the reverse action will take place .
A weight in the centre of the plate , the position of which is regulated by a milled-head screw shown at the side , serves to alter the centre of gravity of the whole apparatus .
The value of the motion of this weight being carefully ascertained , a scale is engraved upon it .
By moving this weight , according to a scale engraved on it , the instrument may be set so as to maintain any desired temperature in the building in which it is fixed .
The range of action of the instrument is from 54 ?
to 66 ?
Fahr. , and with a change of temperature of one degree it has the power to raise one ounce three inches .
Appolds automatic Hygrometerfor keeping the Air in a Building at any desired degree of moisture .
This instrument , both in principle and construction , is very similar to the automatic regulator just described .
The acting portion consists also of a tube with a bulb at each end .
This tube contains mercury to about half the height of each bulb , and a portion of ether floating on the mercury at each end .
One half of the tube and one bulb is covered with bibulous paper , which is always kept wet , and the tube is suspended and turns freely on knife-edges placed just above the covered bulb .
The action of the apparatus is as follows : A deficiency of moisture in the air increases the evaporation from the bibulous paper .
This evaporation produces cold , which condenses the vapour of the ether in the covered bulb , and the mercury being pressed on by the vapour of the ether in the naked bulb is forced into the covered bulb .
The uncovered bulb , being now much the lightest , rises , and raises a lever , which in its turn opens a valve at the end of a small tube .
This tube communicates with a cistern kept full of water .
The water which is thus admitted is suffered to trickle over heated pipes which are covered 1866 .
] 145 with bibulous paper ; upon the desired dew-point being attained , the action ceases .
The range of the instrument is regulated by means of a spiral spring at one end of the tube , and an adjustable weight at the other .
By means of a pencil attached to one of the levers , the instrument may be made self-registering .
An ordinary Mason 's hygrometer is attached to the instrument for regulation and comparison .
With a variation of one degree in the moisture of the atmosphere , the instrument is capable of supplying ten quarts of water per hour to the surface of the pipes from which it evaporated .

