1884 .
] On the Human Lachrymal Bone and its Ossicles .
447 March 27 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
] The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Notes on the Varieties and Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone and its accessory Ossicles .
" By A. Mao ALISTER , F.R.S. , Professor of Anatomy in the University ' of Cambridge .
Received March 14 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The author has examined 1000 lachrymal bones and the soft parts of over 300 orbits , and has deduced therefrom notes on the following points:\#151 ; I. Cases of absence of the lachrymal bone .
II .
Rudimentary conditions:\#151 ; a. Development of an orbital plate only .
ft. Division into two detached ossicles .
7 .
Development of a crest only .
S. Fenestration .
e. Presence of marginal fontanelles .
III .
Varieties in outline , suturation , and frequency of ankylosis .
IV .
Varieties of crista:\#151 ; A. Simple lamellar forms with no crest .
B. Simple carinate forms .
C. Carino-acuminate forms .
D. Carino-hamate .
V. Measurements of the bone in adult male and female , and the deduction of lachrymal index VI .
The vascular relations of the bone , which are shown to be almost exclusively with the infra-orbital artery , not with the angular .
VII .
The disposition of the periosteum and soft parts , and the relation thereto of the tendo oculi and muscles , as well as the relations of the bone to the neighbouring cavities in the ethmoid .
448 Lord Rayleigh .
On [ My .
27 VIII- The accessory ossicles developed in its vicinity , which are six .
One , a detached portion of the lachrymal itself , with a second ossific centre ( ossiculum hamuli ) ; one , a detached portion of the os planum behind it ( ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale superius ) ; two which are detached nodules connected with the maxilla ( ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale inferius and ossiculum canalis naso-lachrymale ) .
one , which belongs to the system of the jugal bone ( ossiculum infra-orbitale ) ; and one , a detachment of the nasal process of the maxilla ( ossiculum maxillo-frontale ) .
To this last-named the sutura notha is always related .
IX .
The history of the development of the human lachrymal from its first appearance in the eighth week , and the changes in position and slope shown by it .
X. The racial varieties shown by this bone , and the system of interlachrymal indexes whereby the degree of downward divergence and orbital splay of the bone can be measured .
XI .
Comparative anatomy and morphology of the bone .
Those points have been briefly referred to which help to interpret the human conditions .
II .
" On the Electro-Chemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells .
" By Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1884 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) The investigations upon this subject which have been carried on by Mrs. Sidgwick and myself during the last year and a half , though not yet quite finished , are so far advanced that no doubt remains as to the general character of the results ; and as these results have application in the daily work of practical electricians , it is thought desirable to communicate them without further delay .
The currents are measured by balancing the attraction and repulsion of coaxal coils against known weights , as described before the British Association in 1882 , a method which has fully answered the favourable expectations then expressed .
To what was said on that occasion it will be sufficient for the present to add that the readings are taken by reversal of the current in the fixed coils , and the difference of weights thus found ( about 1 gram ) represents the double force of attraction , free from errors depending upon the connections of the suspended coil , and other sources of disturbance .
The difficulties which have been experienced , and which have been the cause of so much delay , have related entirely to the behaviour of the silver voltameters , of which never less than two , and sometimes

