I. " On the Photography of the Moon .
" By WILLIAM CROOKES , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received December 16 , 1856 .
The subject of lunar photography is one which has engaged the attention of scientific men almost from the first announcement of the possibility of fixing the images in the camera .
Owing to the extreme difficulty of satisfying all the conditions of the problem to be solved , there are few good photographs of the moon yet in existence .
It was my good fortune in the autumn of 1855 to obtain several excellent pictures of this kind , and since these form the starting-point of the work which , by the assistance of a grant from the Donation Fund of the Royal Society , I have been pursuing during the greater part of the last year , a detailed account of the means employed for their production will not , I think , be considered out of place here .
The telescope in which these pictures were taken is the magnificent equatorial at the Liverpool Observatory .
This , together with all the resources of the establishment , was placed at my disposal by my kind friend Mr. Hartnup , to whom it is but due to state , that , were it not for the invaluable assistance afforded me by his sterling advice as well as steady hand , the results would not have been worth keeping .
The mounting of the equatorial is quite unique ; the polar axis and telescope together weigh about five tons , and whilst all parts are so truly and smoothly fitted that this enormous mass is moved equatorially by means of a small water-mill with such marvellous accuracy , that a star viewed through it appears absolutely stationary , its firmn ness is such that a hard blow against the side merely produces a scarcely perceptible momentary deflection .
The object-glass is 8 inches in diameter , and has a sidereal focus of 12-5 feet the diameter of the moon 's image in this focus being about ] 35 inch .
The eyepiece was removed , and in its place the body of a small camera was attached , so that the moon 's image might fall upon the ground glass or sensitive film in the usual manner .
Much labour had been saved me in finding the true actinic focus , by several photographers of Liverpool , who were working for some time on the same subject when the British Association met in that city in 1854 .
They found that the object-glass had been over-corrected for the actinic rays the plate being required to be placed at a distance of 0'8 of an inch beyond the optical focus : a few experiments were sufficient to enable me to verify this result .
During the time above referred to , and frequently since , Mr. Hartnup had taken many hundreds of pictures with chemicals recommended by various persons , but had not succeeded in obtaining a good negative at all , and not even a positive with a less exposure than from half a minute to a minute .
As I succeeded in taking dense negatives in about four seconds , with the temperature of the room below freezing and the moon at a considerable distance from the meridian , and as I attribute the greater sensitiveness which I obtained to the great purity of the materials I employed , I think it right to give , after the mechanical arrangements are described , an account of the way in which these were prepared .
The clockwork movement was only sufficient to follow the moon approximately when on the meridian , but as the pictures were nearly all taken when she was some distance past the meridian , and when consequently the declination and atmospheric refraction were changing rapidly , it was necessary , notwithstanding the short time required to take the pictures , to correct for the imperfect motion of the telescope .
This was done by means of slow-motion screws attached to the right ascension and declination circles , which are each 4 feet in diameter .
The finder had an eyepiece with a power of 200 applied to it , having cross wires in its field .
The modus operandi of taking the picture was as follows:-The telescope having been moved until the moon 's image was in the centre of the focusing glass , the water-mill was turned on and the dark slide containing the sensitive collodion plate was substituted for the ground glass .
Mr. Hartnup then took his station at the finder , and , with a tangent rod in each hand , by a steady and continuous movement , kept the point of intersection of the cross wires stationary on one spot on the moon 's surface .
When the motion was most perfectly neutralized , I uncovered the sensitive plate at a given signal and exposed it , counting the seconds by means of a loud-ticking chronometer by my side .
From the ease with which on my first attempt I could keep the cross wires of the finder fixed on one point of the moon by means of the tangent rods , I confidently believe that with the well-tutored hands and consummate skill which guided this noble instrument , the moon 's image was as motionless on the collodion plate as it could have been were it a terrestrial object .
The negatives which I obtained by these means were exquisitely beautiful , and so minute that I could not obtain paper with a sufficiently fine surface whereon to print copies which would do them justice .
It was evident that they would bear magnifying several diameters and still remain sharply defined .
The expense of carrying out this design here stopped me , when by the kind advice of Professor Wheatstone I applied to the Royal Society , whose munificence has so frequently been the cause of bringing to a successful termination investigations of the highest importance .
A half-plate photographic combination of lenses , by Ross , was screwed the reverse way into a large sliding camera body 10 inches high by 11 inches wide , and capable of sliding from 18 inches to 3 feet long .
At the end of the sliding body opposite to the lens , was a groove to admit either a focusing glass or a dark slide for the sensitive plate .
A smaller camera body was screwed into the other end of the brasswork of the lens , having also a groove in front to admit of a sliding box capable of holding the small negatives .
A reflector was placed in front of all , so arranged as to move in altitude round a centre , and , being fixed in any required position , to reflect the diffused light of the sky through the negative and lens parallel with the axis of the latter .
Preliminary trials showed me that there was no good gained by magnifying the small pictures more than about 20 times , as after 2 that the individual parts begin to get confused and indistinct ; this magnifying cannot , however , be effected at once .
In the small negatives the lights and shades are the reverse of what they are in nature , consequently a print on paper therefrom gives the light and shade correct .
A photographic copy of a negative , however , produces a positive by transmitted light , and a print from this would have the shadows light and the light parts dark ; consequently , in magnifying a negative with the intention of still producing a negative , an intermediate transmitted positive must first be taken , and this in its turn magnified , when it will produce a negative .
The relative distances of the negative and focusing glass from the intermediate lens were so adjusted , that an image of the negative , enlarged to about two diameters , was thrown upon the ground glass , care being taken that the light from the sky was reflected parallel through the centres of the negative and lens by means of the mirror .
The aperture of the lens was then stopped down to half an inch by means of a diaphragm , and the focus most carefully obtained by sliding the end of the large camera in or out .
I found it necessary to verify this by experimental trials at different distances on each side of the observed focus , as it was difficult to judge accurately with the eye on the ground glass , owing to the roughness of the latter and the feebleness of the light .
A picture , or rather many pictures , were now taken , and the one which by transmitted light most truthfully resembled a paper print from the small negative was reserved for further magnifying .
This was effected absolutely in the same manner as the former : the negative being removed and the positive being placed in its stead , a further magnifying gave a large-sized negative .
Although this process seems very simple , it is impossible to estimate the difficulties , unless by an actual repetition of the experiment , which I had to overcome before arriving at the beautiful result which I have the honour to lay before the Society .
The double copying had a tendency to slightly exaggerate the effect of light and shade , and this could only be obviated by exposing the plates for such a time , that with the feeble light at my command it was verging on decomposition ; particles of dust , too , seemed most pertinaciously to fix themselves on the prominent mountains , giving rise to craters where none should be ; and even my finished pictures are not perfectly free from these faults , although each negative is the representative of a month 's work and upwards of a hundred failures .
I doubt if much better photographs of our satellite can be taken by the way I have pursued .
The future of lunar photography lies in another direction : the image must not be received on a sensitive plate and this copy submitted to an after process of magnifying .
Defects quite imperceptible to the naked eye on the small negatives , are expanded into great blotches when magnified .
In fact , upwards of a dozen seemingly equally good negatives with which I started , have , with but one or two exceptions , shown spots when enlarged .
The magnifying must be conducted simultaneously with the photographing , either by having the eyepiece on the telescope , or better still , by having a proper arrangement of lenses to throw a magnified moon image at once on the collodion .
The difficulty of want of light could not be any objection , as supposing the enlarged image to be equal to those which I have now taken , that would be an increase of area of about twenty times , consequently 20 x6 seconds , or 2 minutes , would represent the average time of exposure ; a period which , even were it prolonged four or five times , would not then be too severe a tax upon a steady and skilful hand and eye .
Description of the Photographic Process .
The glass employed for taking the original negative of the moon , was that known as " extra white colour patent plate , " that for the intermediate positives and large negatives was ordinary patent plate .
Cleaning the surface , which is an operation of especial importance , was effected in the following manner .
The glasses were dipped into and then well rubbed over with a hot solution of caustic potassa ; then , after washing with water , they were transferred to hot nitric acid ( one part strong acid to three of water ) , where they were allowed to remain for about half an hour .
A piece of soft wash-leather was plentifully rinsed , first in a warm dilute solution of carbonate of soda , afterwards in clean water , and then well wrung until all the superfluous water was squeezed out .
The glass plates were taken from the nitric acid and rinsed in abundance of clean water , and then rubbed well on every part with the damp leather .
This removed most of the superficial moisture ; and the final drying was effected by means of another piece of washleather , prepared the same as before , but allowed to become perfectly dry .
Just previous to using , the plates , held in a pneumatic plate-holder , had the last polish given to them by briskly rubbing with a warm piece of fine diaper ( which had also been previously washed in soda and water , and then well rinsed and dried ) until the moisture condensed from the breath evaporated evenly and uniformly , especially guarding against the slightest contact between the surface of the glass and the fingers , The plate was now held with its clean side downward until the collodion was about to be poured on , and every particle of dust ( which was easily seen by bringing the source of light , the under surface of the plate and the eye , nearly in the same line ) was gently wiped off by passing a warm piece of fine cambric lightly across .
Care was also taken to have the atmosphere of the room as free as possible from floating particles , and the dried collodion usually adhering to the neck of the bottle was scrupulously removed .
The collodion was poured on and the plate rendered sensitive in the usual way .
As the temperature both of the equatorial and operating rooms was seldom far from the freezing-point , the great diminution of sensitiveness , which that circumstance would have occasioned , was obviated by having the nitrate of silver bath and developing solution warmed to about 30 ?
C. , and also by slightly warming the plates before using .
The source of light was a fishtail gas burner in the outer room , and shining close to the orange glass window of the dark room , The soluble paper for the collodion was prepared in the following manner:-a mixture was made of sp. gr. Commercial nitrous acid ... ... 1-43 4 fluid ounces .
Commercial nitric acid ... ... . .
1'37 4 , Sulphuric acid ... ... ... ... 1-82 8 When the temperature of the mixture had cooled down to 50 ?
C. , one sheet of Swedish filtering-paper , torn up into small pieces , was completely immersed in the mixture , and allowed to remain therein for about half an hour .
It was then thrown into a large pail of water , and the paper removed and placed on a sieve under a running tap for a quarter of an hour ; after washing in very dilute solution of ammonia and then in plenty of water , the paper was pressed between the folds of a cloth , and then allowed to dry spontaneously in the air .
The collodion was made withEther , sp. gr. *725 ( previously freed from acid by rectification from dry caustic potassa ) ... ... 5 fluid ounces .
Absolute alcohol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 3 , , Soluble paper ( dried at 100 C. ) ... ... 50 grains .
Iodide of cadmium ( pure ) ... ... ... ... 30 The alcohol and ether were mixed together , and then the paper and iodide of cadmium were added : they dissolved in a few minutes with a little shaking .
As soon as the solution was complete , it was allowed to stand for twenty-four hours , and then half of the clear supernatant fluid was decanted carefully into a clean well-stoppered bottle for use .
I believe that collodion prepared in this way will remain uniform from one year 's end to another .
The nitrate of silver bath was made by dissolving I ounce of crystallized nitrate of silver , perfectly pure and neutral , in 2 ounces of water , then , with constant stirring , adding a solution of 4 grains of iodide of cadmium in 1 ounce of water , and a quarter of an ounce of the above iodized collodion , and water to make up the volume to 10 ounces .
This was allowed to stand for a few hours at a temperature of about 25 ?
C. , and then filtered from the undissolved iodide of silver and precipitated paper .
A glass bath was used in preference to gutta percha , and , as above stated , it was heated to 30 ?
C. when used .
The developing solution consisted ofPure pyrogallic acid ... ... ... ... . .
8 grains .
Crystallized citric acid ... ... ... ... ... 16 Water .
fud. .
o ... ... ... . .
8 fluid ounces .
Alcohol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
This developing solution is very slow in its action , 15 to 20 minutes being frequently required , but it ultimately produces negatives of such vigour and freedom from stains , that I much prefer it to the usual formula .
The fixing solution employed was the ordinary nearly saturated solution of hyposulphite of soda .
After its employment the pictures were well and carefully washed in warm water , dried before a fire , and , after scratching the description or name on a corner , varnished with the usual solution of amber in chloroform .
The subsequent operation of printing is so easily performed , and has been so fully described by persons of more experience than myself , that any further allusion to it will be needless .
Appendix .
Besides the pictures taken in America-which are almost valueless as moon maps , as the sides are reversed in the copying from the daguerreotype plate upon which they were originally taken , the moon has been photographed by Professor Phillips , Father Secchi , MM .
Bertsch and Arnauld , several Liverpool photographers , and Mr. HIartnup and myself .
It is interesting and instructive to compare among themselves the means employed and the time occupied in taking the impression on these several occasions .
Professor Phillips 's telescope has a sidereal focus of 11 feet , and an aperture of 64 inches ; consequently the brilliancy of the moon 's image in its focus is augmented 26 times over what she appears to the naked eye .
The average time occupied for the collodion plate to receive the impression was about 3 minutes .
Father Secchi 's telescope having a sidereal focus of 18 times its aperture , the moon 's image was intensified 37'8 times , and the time required for the impression was an average of 6 minutes .
M. Porro 's glass of 49 feet sidereal focus and 20 inches aperture , gave a moon image 12'3 times brighter than she appeared to the naked eye , and the average time of taking the picture was 17 seconds .
Mr. Hartnup 's telescope being 12 } feet focus and 8 inches aperture , augments the intensity of the moon 's image at its focus 35'1 times .
The time which was required for the photograph of our satellite to be taken , on the occasion of the meeting of the British Association at Liverpool in 1854 , was about 2 minutes ; and under the same circumstances we ourselves succeeded in obtaining perfect and intense negatives in 4 seconds .
These , however , were taken under very unfavourable circumstances , the temperature being below the freezingpoint , and the moon at a considerable distance from the meridian , which necessarily caused both a diminution of the light and also a diminished sensitiveness of the collodion film .
The rapidity with which the above pictures were taken may be better understood by comparing them with those of terrestrial objects under similar circumstances .
According to Herschel*"The actual illumination of the lunar surface is not much superior to that of weathered sandstone rock in full sunshine .
I have frequently compared the moon setting behind the grey perpendicular facade of the Table Mountain , illuminated by the sun just risen in the opposite quarter of the horizon , when it has been scarcely distinguishable in brightness from the rock in contact with it .
The sun and moon beirg nearly at equal altitudes , and the atmosphere perfectly free from cloud or vapour , its effect is alike on both luminaries .
" Thus by comparing the Liverpool object-glass as to power with our ordinary camera lens , its focal length being nearly 19 times the aperture , and the moon 's image being copied by its means in 4 seconds , we find that it is equivalent to copying sandstone illuminated by the sun in 4 seconds with a lens 4inches focus and a little less than ?
inch diaphragm ; or with a compound lens having an aperture of one inch , and the same focal length , in a quarter of a second .

