IV .
" An Account of some Experiments made with the Submarine Cable of the Mediterranean Electric Telegraph .
" By CHARLES WHEATSTONE , F.R.S. Received March.29 , 1855 .
The following results were obtained between May 24 and June 8 in last year , with the telegraphic cable manufactured by Messrs. Kuper and Co. of East Greenwich , for the purpose of being laid across the Mediterranean sea , from Spezia on the coast of Italy to the island of Corsica .
The manufacturers , in conjunction with Mr. Thomson the engineer of the undertaking , kindly afforded me every facility in carrying on the experiments .
The short time that elapsed between the opportunity presenting itself and the shipping of the cable for its destination , prevented me from determining with sufficient accuracy some points of importance , respecting which I was only able to make preliminary experiments , but the following , which I was able to effect with the means at hand , may possess sufficient interest to be made public .
They present perhaps nothing theoretically new , but I am not aware that experimental verifications of some of these points have been made before .
I assume that the reader is acquainted with the experiments of Dr. Faraday described in the Philosophical Magazine , N. S. , vol. vii .
p. 197 .
The cable was 110 miles in length , and contained six copper wires , one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter , each separately insulated in a covering of gutta percha one-tenth of an inch in thickness .
The whole was surrounded by twelve thick iron wires twisted spirally around it , forming a complete metallic envelope one-third of an inch in thickness .
A section of the cable presented the six wires arranged in a circle of half an inch diameter , and one-fifth of an inch from the internal surface of the iron envelope .
The cable was coiled in a dry well in the yard , and one of its ends was brought into the manufactory .
The wires were numbered 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , and the ends in the well were indicated by an accent ; the ends 1'2 , 2'3 , 3'4 , 4'5 , 5'6 were connected by supplementary wires , so that the electric current might be passed in the same direction through all the six wires joined to a single length , or through any lesser number of them , the connexions being made at pleasure in the experimenting room .
The rheomotor employed was an insulated voltaic battery consisting of twelve troughs , each of twelve elements , which had been several weeks in action .
First Series .
The following experiments show that the iron envelope of the compound conductor gives rise to the same phenomena of induction which occur when the insulated wire is immersed in water , as in Dr. Faraday 's experiments .
Exp. 1 .
One end of the entire length , 660 miles , was brought in connexion with one of the poles of the battery , the other end remaining insulated .
The wire became charged with negative electricity when its end touched the zinc pole , and with positive electricity when it communicated with the copper pole .
A current , indicated by a galvanometer placed near the battery , existed as long as the charge was going on , and ceased when it arrived at its maximum .
[ The feeble current attributed to imperfect insulation , which continues as long as the contact with the battery remains , is here left out of consideration .
] When the wire was charged , and the discharge effected by a wire communicating with the earth , the current produced was in the same direction , whether the discharge was made near the battery or at the opposite end ; i. e. the current in both cases proceeded from the wire to the earth in the same direction .
Exp. 2 .
On bringing one end of the wire in contact with one of the poles of the battery , the other pole having no communication with the earth , the wire remained uncharged .
A very slight and scarcely perceptible tremor was observed in the galvanometer needle interposed between the battery and the wire .
Exp. 3 .
To each of the poles of the battery was attached a wire 220 miles in length , and similar galvanometers were interposed between the two wires ( the remote extremities of which remained insulated ) and the battery .
So long as one wire alone was connected with the battery no charge was communicated to it , but on connecting the other wire with the opposite pole both wires were instantaneously charged , as the strong deflection of both needles rendered evident .
On bringing the free end of one of the wires in communication with the earth it alone was discharged , the other wire remaining fully charged .
Second Series .
Exp. 4 .
One pole of the battery was connected with the earth , and the other with 660 miles of wire , which had an earth communication at its opposite end ; three galvanometers were interposed in the course of the conductor ; the first near the battery , the second in the middle of the wire , i. e. 330 miles from each extremity , and the third at the remote end near the communication with the earth .
When the connexion of the battery with the wire was completed , the galvanometers were successively acted upon in the order of their distances from the battery , as in the experiments recorded by Dr. Faraday .
When the earth connexion at the remote extremity of the wire , on the contrary , was completed , the disturbance of equilibrium commenced at this end , and the galvanometers successively acted in the reverse order , i. e. the galvanometer which was the most distant from the battery was the first impelled into motion .
In the latter case , before the completion of the circuit the needles of the galvanometers had assumed constant deflections to a limited extent , owing to a feeble current arising from the uniform dispersion of the static electricity along the wire .
Exp. 5 .
The two extremities of the 660 miles of wire were brought into connexion with the opposite poles of the battery .
When one of the ends previously disconnected from the battery was united therewith , the galvanometers at the extremities of the wire , and consequently which were at equal distances from the poles of the battery , were immediately and simultaneously acted upon , while that which was in the middle of the wire was subsequently caused to move .
When the wire disconnected in the middle instead of near one of the poles of the battery was again united , the middle galvanometer , which was the most remote from the battery , was the first acted upon , and those near the poles subsequently .
The comparison of the two above-mentioned experiments show that the earth must not be regarded simply as a conductor , which many suppose to be the case .
Since in the first experiment there were not many yards ' distance between the two earth terminations , did the extent of ground between them act only as a conductor , the two galvanometers at the extremities of the wire should have acted simultaneously , as in the second experiment , and as would have been the case had a short wire united the two extremities which proceeded to the earth .
Third Series .
Exp. 6 .
One pole of the battery was connected with the earth , and the opposite pole with one extremity of the 660 miles of wire , the other end remaining insulated ; a delicate galvanometerwasinterposed near the battery .
Notwithstanding there was no circuit formed , the needle showed a constant deflection of 331 ?
; the feeble current thus rendered evident is not so much to be attributed to imperfect insulation , as to the uniform and continual dispersion of the static electricity with which the wire is charged throughout its entire length , in the same manner as would take place in any other charged body placed in an insulating medium .
The strength of the current thus occasioned appears to be nearly , if not exactly , proportional to the length of the wire added , as the following table will show : the first column indicates the number of miles of wire subjoined beyond the galvanometer , and the second the corresponding deflections of the needle:miles .
o 0 ... ... ... ... 0 110 ... ... ... ... . .
62 220 ... ... ... ... . .
12 330 ... ... ... ... . .
18 440 ... ... ... ... . .
23550 ... ... ... ... 28 660 ... ... ... ... 31 Exp. 7 .
One end of the 660 miles of wire was now allowed to remain constantly in contact with one of the poles of the battery ; but the galvanometer was successively shifted to different distances from the battery .
The strength of the current was now shown to be inversely as the distance of the galvanometer from the battery , becoming null at its extremity , as shown in the following table .
The first column shows the distance from the battery at which the galvanometer was placed , and the second column the corresponding deflection of the needle .
miles .
Near the battery ... .
3-3 110 ... ... ... ... . .
31 220 ... ... ... 25 330 ... ... ... ... 15 440 ... ... ... . .
12 550 ... ... ... ... .
5 660 ... ... ..0 ... . .
The deflections of the needle of the galvanometer employed in these experiments were , when they did not surpass 36 ?
, very nearly comparable with the force of the current .
This I ascertained in the following way .
I took six cells of the small constant battery described in my paper " On new Instruments and Processes for determining the Constants of a Voltaic Circuit , " printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1843 , and placed in the circuit formed of the 660 miles of wire , the earth , and the galvanometer , successively 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 cells .
Leaving out of consideration the resistances in the cells themselves and in the earth , which were very inconsiderable in comparison with that in the long wire , the force of the current should be approximately proportionate to the number of the elements ; and since the deflections of the needle nearly indicated this proportionality , as the following table will show , it may be assumed that the force of the current , when the deflection of the needle did not surpass 36 ?
, nearly corresponded with the angular deviation .
cell .
1 ... ... ... ... 6 2 ... ... ... . .
14 3 ... ... ... . .
19 4 ... ... ... .
28 5 ... ... ... 32 6 ... ..3 ... ... . .
36 From the preceding experiments ( 6 .
and 7 .
) it seems to result , that whatever length of wire is connected with the battery , if a galvanometer is placed at the farther extremity of the wire and a constant length added to the other termination of the galvanometer , its indication remains always nearly the same .
Thus the galvanometer indicated 6 ?
when it was placed close to the battery and 110 miles of wire were subjoined beyond it ; and 5 ?
when 550 miles were interposed between the battery and galvanometer , the same length , 110 miles , being subjoined .
In like manner , when 220 miles were added beyond the galvanometer placed near the battery , the indication was 12 ?
; precisely the same as when 440 miles were interposed and 220 added .
So also when 330 miles were added , the deviation of the galvanometer was 18 ?
; and 15 ?
when 330 miles were interposed and 330 added .
I have no doubt that the correspondence would have been closer had it not been for the fluctuations of the battery .
It would appear from this , that whatever be the length of wire attached to the insulated pole of a battery , it becomes charged to the same degree of tension throughout its entire extent ; so that another insulated wire brought into connexion with its free extremity exhibits precisely the same phenomena , in kind and measure , as when it is brought into immediate connexion with a pole of the battery .
Some important practical consequences flow from this conclusion , which I will not develope at present , as I have not yet had an opportunity of submitting them to the test of experiment .

