A paper was read , entitled " On the Wct Summer of 1839 .
" By Luke Howard , Esq. F.R.S. &amp;c. The observations of the author were made at Ackworth , in York ?
shire ; and the following are his results with regard to the mean temperature and the depth of rain , in each month , during 1839 .
Mean temperature of the year 47*24 ? .
Total depth of rain in 1839 , 33*62 inches .
He states that the climatic mean temperature of the place is about 47 ?
, and the mean annual depth of rain about 26 inches .
The excess of rain during the year 1839 was therefore very great .
The author describes the effect of the hurricane of the 7th of January , and follows the changes of the weather during the remainder of the year .
A paper was also in part read , entitled " On the chemical Action of the Rays of the Solar Spectrum on preparations of Silver and other substances , both metallic and non-metallic , and on some photographic processes .
" By Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. V.P.R.S. &amp;c. The President informed the Meeting that the Council had voted the following Address of Congratulation to Her Majesty , the Queen , on the occasion of Her marriage , and that he had presented it at the Levee yesterday .
" To the Queen s Most Exccllent Majesty .
" The humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge .
" Most Gracious Sovereign , " We , Your Majesty 's most dutiful and loyal subjects , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for im ?
proving Natural Knowledge , beg leave to approach your sacred person , and to ofter most humbly to Your Majesty our sincere and heartfelt congratulations on the present joyful occasion of the mar ?
riage of Your Majesty with His Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha ; an event , which , in unison with all loyal subjects throughout Your Majesty 's dominions , we cordially hail as the auspicious omen of lasting happiness to Your Majesty , and of pennanent blessings to the British Empire .
We venture to hope , that , amidst the universal felicitations of a free , affectionate , and grateful people , Your Majesty will condescend favourably to receive this tribute of the deep respect and devoted attachment of the Mem ?
bers of our Society ; a Society which , under the fostering protec ?
tion of the successive Sovereigns of these realms during a period of nearly two centuries , has exerted itself to extend the boundaries of scientific knowledge , and of those arts which augment the power and ameliorate the condition of the human race ; objects to which Your Majesty , following the steps of Your Illustrious Predecessors , has already been graciously pleased to extend Your Royal patronage and encouragcment .
" That Your Majesty 's reign may be long , happy , and glorious , and that it may be especially distinguished in the annals of history as the pacific era in which the greatest advances were made in Science , Literature , and the useful Arts , and in which the deep foundations of prosperity to this great empire , and of improvement in the condition of mankind , were consolidated , is the earnest wish and fervent prayer of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London .
" The President also stated to the Meeting , that the Council had adopted the following Address of Congratulation to His Royal Highness Prince Albert , of Saxe Coburg and Gotha .
" To His Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
" The humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge .
" May it please Your Royal Highness , " We , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge , beg leave humbly to present to Your Royal Highness our sincere and most cordial congratulations on the happy occasion of Your Royal Highness 's marriage with Her Majesty , the Queen of these realms ; an event which , from the known virtues and high endowments of Your Royal High ?
ness , we confidently anticipate will prove the abundant source of domestic happiness to Her Majesty and to Your Royal Highness , as well as of important advantage to the interests of this great and united empire .
" The Royal Society , more especially , has reason to rejoice in beholding the exalted station now occupied by Your Royal Highness , filled by an enlightened and liberal Prince early imbued with the principles of virtue and religion , and whose mind , already expanded , inyigorated , and refined by the assiduous cultivation of literature , science , and j^hilosophy , is qualified justly to appreciate the importance to mankind of those pursuits to which the Royal Society has directed its constant attention .
" That Your Royal Highness may , under the blessing of Providence , long enjoy every happiness , is the ardent wish and prayer of Your Royal Highness 's humble and devoted servants , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London .
"

