]\gt ; The of Starlight .
TI .
' The Mcasurement of Starlight .
Observations at Observatory of ) mona House , co .
lVestmeath , in January , ) ) .
) Report By G. M. , Professor of tics , Coopel.'S Hill College .
Beccived January 23 , In the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 58 , , \amp ; c. , will found first account of the measurement of stellar radiation by of the electromotive force generated by the action of staron my photo-electric cells .
ionS w resumed in of Jauuary , 1896 , in .
W. .
Wilson 's observatory by the three observers\mdash ; namcly , Mr. Wilson , Professor gerald , and myseIf .
Our appliances were substantially the same as fore ; but the phofo-electric cells had the time been rendered more setlsitive by prevention of the ascent of the liquid the glass tube conraining the aluminium wire , the end of which coabed with the selenium layer 011 which the ed. is of liquid was eveuted by simply painting the cilclo of contnet of the wire and tube liquid gelatine , and gelatine thus formed to dry .
As gelatine is not dissolved by oenanthol , the was in this way kept out of contact ith the miniom w , and tho was a great in the nsitiveness and power of cell .
It is to be regretted that oub of the } nights at our for work , only one proved able for observations ; but even on this we bIiged to omit observations on such bright stars as Sirius , , and Capella , owing to the persistence of in the atmosphere .
The aim of our work on this occasion to measure the candle power of the light of each of the stars and the Bear , I that of as many others as time would to crve .
AH ccll may not be exactly the same in another , I set in the folIowing table the of the of htjtl in berms of that of a ] held at a dis ( nnce of 10 ft. from tho sensitive face in the cell ; but the value of the in volts is the data .
The olcctrotnetcr employed was that previously used and described ; and it continued to give with Const 1 a detlection of 630 mm. on a scale distant 7 .
from the mirror cne Leclancho cell , or , say , mm. for 1 volb .
232 The of Starlight .
[ Jan. 30 , Observations made in January , 1896 .
: nBet JfeetP 1Majoris.erms o One observation was attempted for Rigel ; but when a deflection of 8 mm. had beem ttained , the light was cut off by clouds , and no further opportunity occurred .
With regard to the last column in this table , be it understood that it the ratio of the .
produced by the light of the star as concentrated in a telescope of 2 ft. perture to E.M.F. produced by the of the candle falling directly on the cell a distance of lO ft. In order to determine the candle value of any star , we must , of course , take into account the area of the telescope aperture , the area of the sensitive selenium surface in the cell , the tance of the star from the earth , and the distance of the candle from the cell .
Thus , if I rinsic brightness of a star , the total of energy radiated in all directions by the star per unit time ) intrinsic brightness of candle , diameter of aperture of elescope , diameter of selenium surface , tanco of star , distance of candIe , deflection on electrometer scale dne star , deflection on electromeber scale due to candle , we have For example , selecting the star Procyon in the above list as that hose parallax is nown , we find ( see Miss Clerke 's ' System of the Stars ' ) secondfi for ( theparallaxrk Also the 1896 .
] Contributions to the of ) .
23 !
} metel , of the ssusitive surface was about in .
, while A so that ; hence we have that is , ocyon is equivalent to about 516 billions of billions standard We bei struck by enormous power of Betclgeust as indicated in the table .
The observed was the ltteano , all very fairly close .
the only recorded star , so .
as I can ascertain : is a one !
The star is , efore , ably dtunt , and yet the E.II .
F. of its ) is helfcG ib must be pohsessed of lous e We hope ti nt .
next vationb will be -en still ) etter as lfr .
Wilson csbed a improvement in the Lich will us to see the ) of the stur exactly on III .
to nistry of Chlorophyll .
By , and ) Ph. D. Rcceived uuary 2 , 1896 .
Tn on the of Chlc ) ] ophyll immediately pre(ibed a of the of thab its zinc salt , lecl to the fol.lnula .
This bubstance beiug in the with ) yrin of } ious ubscrv no reaboll to give it anothor Recent tions of the matter of blood , more espccially that of ncki and have that to the cf haematoporphyrin , a of the is to be ascribed .
This mula from that by three ntoms more of O. But the resemttcc b the is nob to the tion of thoir formulae ; it extcnds also to several of their as the coluur of solutior : , but the Ltlce of these solutions before the oscopc , is so alikc , .
as ab orption s are concel.ned , thab llot .
wido difference other respccts we be ined to nsidcr them as idontical .
That the two set.ies of ivatives , that of chl and of haemoglobin , .
an impol.tallt part in the retable and organism iipoctively , so at one point is ) VOL. LIX .

