An Account of an Experiment shown before the Royal Society , of Shooting by the Rarefaction of the Air : By Dr. D. Papin , R. S S. WHereas ordinary Wind-Guns do their Effect by the Compression of the Air .
Ottho Ghericke hath found a new Sort that shoots by Rarefaction ; and he hath Published that device at large in his Book about Pneumatic Experiments , but he doth not express how strong was the Effect .
I have therefore had the Curiosity to try it my self by another Contrivance , which I take to be better than his : First , because I can make a Rarefaction much more perfect than he could do .
Secondly , because his Device could not be used but for Guns of a small bore ; but my way may be applied to the biggest bore that can be made by Workmen : So that one might by this means throw up vast Weights to a great distance .
AA is a Pipe very equal from one end to the other .
BBa small Pipe soder 'd to a Hole near the end of the Pipe A A , and applied to the Plate of the Pneumatic Engine .
CCCC some kind of Stool to bear up the hinder part of the Pipe A A. D. a peice of Lead fitted to the bore of the pipe A A. The pipe AA is to be shut at both ends by ~ outwardly applied , and so the said pipe A A , though never so big , may be exhausted of Air by means of the Pneumatic Engine : Which done , the Val e towards D must be ~ly opened , so that the whole pressure of the Atmosphere acting upon the Lead D may drive it along the pipe AA with such a ~ , that it will be able to carry it to a great distance : And because such a~ shutting a great hole would prove very difficult to be opened , when the pipe AA is of a great Bore , the aperture towards D may be left much smaller than the pipe ; the swiftness of the Air being so great , that even through a pretty small aperture , it presses the lead D as freely almost as if the whole Bore was quite open .
Having prepared a Barrel carrying a lead of 2 ounces , the Experiment was shown before the Royal Society , and the Effect was found very considerable , the force being little less than that of the Wind-Gun by compression ; the same experiment being afterwards repeated with a longer Barrel , it was found that the length in this way of shooting was very little ,

