" On the Action of the Rays of the Spectrum on Vegetable Juices : " being an Extract from a Letter by Mrs. M. Somerville to Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , dated Rome , September 20 , 1845 .
Communicated by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , F.R.S. In the experiments of which the results are here recorded , the solar spectrum was condensed by a lens of flint glass of seven inches and a half focus , maintained in the same part of the screen by keeping a pin-hole or pencil-mark constantly at the corner of the red rays , which were sharply defined by being viewed through blue spectacles ; and the apparatus was covered with black cloth in order to exclude extraneous light .
Thick white letter-paper , moistened with the liquid to be examined , was exposed wet to the spectrum , as it was found that the action of the coloured light was thus rendered more immediate and more intense , than when the surface of the paper was dry .
The action of the spectrum at the junction of the lavender with the violet rays was found in some cases to be different from what it is with either of these colours separately , indicating a break in the continuity of action , and suggesting the idea of a secondary spectrum .
In many instances the yellow and green rays exert a powerful influence on vegetable substances , an influence apparently unconnected with heat ; for the darkening is generally least under the red rays and immediately below them , where the calorific rays are most abundant .
The action , in a great number of cases , produces insulated spots in different parts of the spectrum , but more especially in the region of the rays of mean refrangibility , in which neither the calorific nor the chemical powers are the greatest .
The point of maximum intensity is sometimes altered by the addition of acids , alkalies , or diluted alcohol .
But altogether , as the author states , the action of the different parts of the spectrum seems to be very capricious , the changes of colour produced being exceedingly irregular and unaccountable .

