II .
" On the Resistance of the Air to the Motion of Elongated Projectiles having variously formed Heads .
" By the Rev. F. BASHFORTH , B.D. , Professor of Applied Mathematics to the Advanced Class of Artillery Officers , Woolwich .
Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received January 30 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) These experiments were undertaken with a view to determine the resistance of the air to some forms of heads of elongated shot which were likely to be of practical use .
The chronograph used was the one described in the Proceedings of the Royal Artillery Institution for August 1866* , which was constructed on the plan of the Greenwich instrument .
Ten screens were placed in a line at intervals of 150 feet , the first being 75 feet from the gun .
The following were the forms of the heads , and ten shot of each kind were prepared:(1 ) Hemispherical ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
solid .
( 2 ) Hemispheroidal ( axes as 1 : 2 ) ... ... ... ..solid .
( 3 ) Ogival ( struck with a radius =1 diameter). .
solid .
( 4 ) Ogival ( struck with a radius =2 diameters). .
solid .
( 5 ) Ogival ( 1 diameter ) ... ... ... ... ... hollow .
( 6 ) Ogival ( 2 diameters ) ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
hollow .
( 3 ) and ( 5 ) as well as ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) had respectively the same external forms , but the solid were nearly double the weight of the hollow shot .
The gun used was a 40-pounder M.L. , and the diameter of the shot was 4*7 inches .
It was found , as in the trial experiments of 1865 , that , if s be the space described in time t after passing the first screen , then , approximately , t= as + bs2 , from which it follows that , if v be the velocity at time t , a+2b8s and the retarding force ---2bv3 If V denote the velocity when s=0 , then v=1 , aX Published separately by Bell and Dmldy , 1866 .
and 1 v= .
V+ 2bs All the hollow shot were fired , giving eighteen out of twenty successful shots .
Only a part of the solid shot prepared were fired ; and they did not give nearly such good results as the hollow shot , probably in consequence of the superior angular velocity of the hollow shot-because , as a 5-lb .
charge was used throughout , the lighter shot had a higher initial velocity , and consequently a higher corresponding angular velocity .
Tables are given showing for every round:-(1 ) the experimental determination of the time of passing each screen , supposing the first screen to be passed when t=0 ; ( 2 ) the velocities at the middle points between successive screens ; ( 3 ) the weights of the shot ; and ( 4 ) the numerical values of 612 , where 1 150 feet , the distance between the screens .
And assuming that , for a given form of head , the resistance of the air varies as the square of the diameter , the mean values of 26 have been adopted for shot weighing W lbs. , and having a diameter of d inches , or 2R feet .
When a body is moving in a straight line under the action of a force which varies as the cube of the velocity , it appears that the actual velocity v ' at the middle of any space 2st is such that , if another body moved over the same space 2s ' with a uniform velocity vt , it would describe it in the same time as the first-named body .
For the time t ' would 2s ' + 6(2s ' ) ' , uniform velocity 2s ' 2s ' _1 t ' I__ + 2bs ' 2s ' +b ( 2s')2 +2s the actual velocity at the distance s ' .
M. Helie , in his 'Traite de Balistique ' ( 1865 ) , adopted , for elongated projectiles , a law for the resistance of the air which varied as the velocity cubed .
The law was deduced from some experiments made at Gavre , when a great number of velocities ( v ' , v"t ) of shot fired with various charges were measured at two points x metres apart .
The mean values of v ' and vt were taken and substituted in the formula v " -v ; and it was found that this was approximately constant , and consequently that the resistance varied as the ( velocity)3 .
The French measures and weights have been converted into English measures for M. Helie 's best experiment , in order to facilitate comparisons with my own experiments .
The contents of M. Helie 's work were quite unknown to me for several months after my report on the above experiments had been given in .
For an ogival-headed shot struck with a radius of two diameters M. I-Helie 's value of 23 is IV2 d2 26=-000036 =W 000000062 WW while my experiments for the same form of head , but with much higher velocities , give 2b6=000060W =000000104 W There is reason to expect that my value of b will require a small reduction for the low velocities used in M. Helie 's experiments ; but it is extremely improbable that it can be reduced to M. Helie 's value .
It will thus appear that M. Helie and I agree in adopting a law of the resistance of the air , but that we have followed quite independent methods in experimenting , and have arrived at different numerical results .

