214 Further Note on a Luminous Glow generated by Electrostatic Induction in an Exhausted Vessel made of Silica .
By Frederick John Jeryis-Smith , M.A. ( Oxon ) , F.R.S. ( Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) 1 .
A glow-bulb rotating within a shallow cylindrical inductor made with a dome-shaped end ( devised by my son , E. J. Jervis-Smith , R.F.A. ) , placed symmetrically , with respect to the axis of rotation of the glow-bulb , exhibited the glow and magnetic phenomena described in the former paper and exhibited at the Royal Society on May 13 , 1908 .
Sir Oliver Lodge has kindly repeated some of my experiments with glass bulbs , as set forth in the former paper , and also surrounded by a ring-shaped inductor , and has produced the same effects .
2 .
Two bulbs , similar in shape and size to those described in the paper referred to , were made by the Silica Syndicate , London , of pure fused silica .
Up to this time ( May 30 , 1908 ) , as far as I can discover , no highly exhausted tubes of pure silica have been made ; but now means have been found whereby such apparatus may be manufactured .
The only difficulty which remained was to seal off ' an exhausted silica tube in such a manner as not to alter the condition of the vacuum by the introduction of hydrogen gas , since at a high temperature hydrogen passes through fused silica .
By employing a means of sealing not involving the burning of hydrogen , this trouble may be avoided , if great accuracy is aimed at .
3 .
The residual gas in the new silica glow-bulbs , after exhaustion to a Rontgen vacuum , was air .
A glow-bulb was supported by its stem at the distance of 0-5 cm .
from a disc-shaped terminal of an induction coil .
Opposite to the bulb and disc , a pointed terminal ( negative ) was placed at such a distance that sparks did not pass when the point and disc were 10 cm .
apart , but only a brush discharge , which played freely over the bulb .
When the coil was in action , the bulb was illuminated with a brilliant emerald green glow .
When the discharge was stopped , the bulb continued to glow , the glow slowly dying out in about fifteen minutes .
This remarkable after-glow could be easily seen by a person at a distance of 3 or 4 metres from the bulb for the first eight or ten minutes after the excitation of the bulb .
In one experiment a bulb showing the after-glow was carried about 80 metres , through a garden , at night ; it still retained its glow as it did when not moved in the laboratory .
4 .
No glass glow-bulbs , treated in exactly the same manner , exhibit this after-glow phenomenon in the slightest degree .
On a Luminous Gloiu generated by Induction .
215 5 .
The silica glow-bulb , when under the influence of the above-mentioned discharge , showed green streaks of glow brighter than that of the whole bulb , slowly moving within the bulb .
6 .
A silica glow-bulb was mounted in the rotating apparatus described in S ( 2 ) of the paper of January 30 , 1908 .
The inductor .
wras charged from about 1800 to 2000 volts .
The silica glow-bulb gave out a glow quite unlike that of the glass bulbs described in the former paper .
In the experiments with the glass bulbs the glow was not at all strong when the inductor was charged to about 1800 volts ; also , the magnetic phenomena could only be seen by some persons at a distance of 0'25 to 0'5 metre from the apparatus ; but when a silica bulb , similar in size and exhaustion to the glass bulbs , was rotated , it could be seen without difficulty in the dark at a distance of 5 metres , and when the inductor was charged up to 3000 to 4000 volts it was clearly visible at 15 metres from the glow-bulb .
7 .
The magnetic phenomena appear to be the same as those which exist when a glow-bulb is employed made of glass .
8 .
A silica glow-bulb was rotated ( as in the previous experiments , by means of a hollow mandrel ) with a portion of the bulb in contact with dry mercury , supported under the rotating bulb in a circular wooden dish .
On rotating the bulb it was almost instantly filled with a bright greenish glow .
The bulb was rotated about thirty times per minute ; on increasing the surface velocity of the bulb , so that the mercury was thrown out of the dish , the glow produced was but very slightly increased .
9 .
A flexible brush of fine copper wire , supported on an insulator , was held in light contact with the bulb , about 1*5 cm .
above the surface of the mercury .
The brush was connected to a graduated electroscope .
When the bulb was rotated , the electroscope was rapidly charged up to 1500 volts ; also a Leyden jar was easily charged from the copper brush and insulated conductor .
10 .
This method of generating electricity placed in one 's hands an excellent method of gradually charging a body to any desired degree , from zero up to the highest potential attainable by the arrangement .
Owing to the highly insulating nature of silica , practically no leakage back to the bulb through the brush takes place .
The sign of the electricity so produced is negative .
The brush should in all cases lightly touch the rotating bulb .
11 .
Solid fused silica was employed , and electricity was generated as in ( 10 ) , but only the slightest trace of light was visible .
12 .
A jet of mercury , falling through 4 cm .
, was made to play upon the surface of a silica glow-bulb , when it instantly became luminous .
On connecting the point of impact of the drops of mercury with the electroscope , Dr. E. C. Edgar .
[ June 25 , it was at once charged , as in Experiment 9 .
The same was the case when solid silica was employed , but hardly any luminosity appeared .
13 .
All these experiments were repeated with glass glow-bulbs , but the effects were minute in comparison with those produced when silica was used , and it was found that considerable leakage back of a charge took place when glass was used .
14 .
An electrical machine is now being constructed by me , in which silica and mercury will be used on a far larger scale than in the experiments described in this paper .
I wish to thank Mr. H. G. Lacell , of the Silica Syndicate , for the great care with which the glow-bulbs have been prepared under his supervision .
On the Atomic Weight of Chlorine .
By Edward C. Edgar , D.Sc .
, Assistant Lecturer in Chemistry in the University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Professor H. B. Dixon , F.R.S. Received and Read June 25 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) Six years ago Professor Dixon and I began a research with the object of determining directly the weight of chlorine which combines with the unit weight of hydrogen .
Our method was to burn a jet of hydrogen in an atmosphere of chlorine ; hydrogen being stored and weighed in palladium , the chlorine being condensed and weighed as liquid .
The number we obtained for the combining weight of chlorine was appreciably higher than that found indirectly by Stas , and still higher than that approved by the International Committee on Atomic Weights .
While this research was in progress , other determinations had been made bearing on the relative weights of silver , chlorine , and nitrogen , so that some modification in the accepted values of one or more of these elements appeared inevitable .
The direct " joining up " of the two ends of the chain connecting hydrogen with chlorine thus became a matter of immediate importance .
Since the method of burning one gas in an atmosphere of the other had been proved to be accurate within fairly narrow limits , I was encouraged to continue the investigation , and to modify the apparatus , with a view to

