Observations on a new Species of hard Carbonate of Lime ; also on a new Species of Oxide of Iron .
By the Count de Bournon , F.R.S. and L.S. Read May 26 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 325 .
] The new carbonate of lime here treated of was first noticed in a group of hexahedral pyramidal crystals in Mr. Greville 's collection .
The Count , observing that the exterior appearance of these crystals was very different from that which is peculiar to carbonate of lime , endeavoured in the first place , in order to determine their nature by their configuration , to reduce them , by splitting , into the rhomboidal form of this substance ; but he soon found , to his surprise , that not only he failed in producing such a fracture , but that it was with the greatest difficulty he could break them into any regular form whatever .
Their hardness he found to be much greater than that of common carbonate of lime , being such as would scratch very easily the fluates of lime , and even glass .
Their specific gravity was 2912 .
They were colourless , and in general perfectly transparent .
When heated they are slightly phosphorescent .
They dissolve quickly , and with great effervescence , in nitric acid .
After various attempts , he found at length that these crystals would admit of being divided into two directions , tending to produce a rhomboidal tetrahedral prism .
A great part of the paper is taken up in describing the angles produced by these fractures , and also the figures of all the different crystals he had opportunities of observing ; which descriptions are illustrated by drawings .
This substance , upon further inquiry , does not appear to be very scarce , there being no less than twelve specimens in Mr. Greville 's collection , most of which came from Carinthia and Transylvania , and some from Scotland .
The delicate stalactitical substance , hitherto known by the name of fios ferri , belongs to this species of carbonate , of which the crystals , though ever so minute , have so singular a degree of hardness as to resist the common efforts of the fingers to break them .
The matrix of this kind of carbonate is generally a brown oxide of iron , mixed with a portion of argill .
Its appearance altogether might easily induce mineralogists to refer it to that lkind which has been distinguished by the name of Arragonite ; but various reasons are here assigned for considering them as distinct substances .
Chemical analysis has not yet afforded any criteria for distinguishing this species either from the arragonite or the common carbonates of lime .
And it is lastly thrown out , merely as a conjecture , whether its greater degree of hardness and specific gravity may not be owing merely to its constituent particles being more minute and more closely connected .
The second part of this paper , which treats of a new species of oxide of iron , is prefaced by a short survey of the different appearances of the oxides of iron , according to their various degrees of combination with oxygen : and it is here suggested , that not only the proportion of oxygen , but also the mode of combination , may contribute to produce varieties which cannot by any other means be accounted for .
The new species here described is thought to hold its place between the slightly attractable oxide of iron called Specular ore , or , by Abbe Hauy , fer oligiste , and that kind which no longer crystallizes except in a very indeterminate form .
Its surface is of a gray colour , and has a specular appearance : it is not at all acted upon by the magnet , and seems to be the last degree of oxidation in which iron retains the property of crystallizing in a regular form .
This form is a perfect cube ; its fracture is conchoidal ; its hardness is rather inferior to that of the slightly attractable oxide of iron ; its specific gravity only 3961 .
To this species it seems ought to be referred the Eisen-glirnmer of the Germans , when it is not attractable .
When at all acted upon by the magnet , it ought to be numbered among the slightly attractable oxides of iron .
Specimens of this new species have been brought from Lapland , and are often fouiid mixed or embodied in other oxides of the same metal .
The author , lastly , points out how , by the red colour of the powder and by scratching , this species may be , in a general way , distinguished from the others ; an object of no trivial importance , since the products of metal from the ores may be influenced by this discrimination .

