]\gt ; 1876 .
] Rev. S. Haughton on the Law of Fatigue .
131 to the power of air to disseminate crystals of a salt thrown into it in fine powder .
De Coppet has already remarked that the mass of a tion exerts some influence on its crystailization , and I have shown that the form of the has a decided .
The effect again of different vibrations on solutions is worth trying , as there seems to be no reason why the hyperacid sodium salt should be an exceptional case .
A good deal of work has yet to be done we arrive at satisfory anation of these obscure phenomena .
IX .
' On some Elementary Principles in Animal Mechanics.\mdash ; No. VIII .
The Law of Fatigue .
By the Rev. SAMUEL HAUGI1 .
( Dubl .
) , D.C.L. ( Oxon .
) , F.RS .
ellow of Trinity Dublin .
In my last I the Law of Fatigue by experiments made in lifting Yftryngithont rest , a fixed rate of motion ; I shall now illustrate ths Law by experimemts made in lifting a fixed weight at rying rates of motion , lvithout rest , as before .
Law of Fatigue .
' ' the same muscle ( or group of musclesis kept in constant action until fatigue sets in , the iotal work done multiplied by the rate of work is \ldquo ; The following experiments were made during the hst six months by Dr. inter and myself:\mdash ; A pair of mbbells , held one in each , were raised simultaneously from the vertical to the position , gain 1ered , at a rate regulated by a metronome made for the purpose .
No rest at the beginnin or end of the motion , which took place as efore , under the conditions , viz. : \mdash ; 1 .
To keep time with the metronome .
2 .
To raise the weights in the plane .
3 .
To the hands .
4 .
To abstain from all bending of the knees or spinal column .
5 .
The experimenter not to coullt the lifts .
The experiments were made at intervals never less than 24 hours , so to oid all risk of the muscles becoming traimed ; and on occasion the weights were lifted until it became impossible to effect another lift , without violating condition , indicating that other lscles were called in , to aid the shoulder-muscles ] ready worn out .
The folrcsuIts were ined , tho of being 9 .
lbs. Rev. S. Haughton on the Law of Fatigue .
[ June 1 Dr. Ma nlister .
In the ing these results al.o plotted I now proceed compare these resuIts with calculations rom the Law .
In the examples of the LalV of Fatigue given 11 No. .
the work done by the muscIes is work , and consists in Iifting weights at a fixed rate until fatigue sets in ; but in the present experiments the work done is partly mical and st.atical , the latter consisting in the efforts made by the muscles to hold the weight { arm extcnded in positions rying from the vertic to the horizontal position .
Let be the dynamical work rate of work , and let be the vork and of work .
If the work dolle were purely dynamical or purely static should by the of , either nllt .
1876 .
] Rev. S. hton on the Law of atiyue .
constant , 1t the toffi time of work .
Ihe Law of Fatigue be applied in one or other of two ways . .
The total vork done is , and the rate of Hellae the of Fatigue gives us constant ( 1 ) is proportio1lal to , the length of the arm , to , the weight plus half eight of the arm , and to the number of lifts .
VOlk is to , the length of the , to , the weight plus half the weight of the arm , to the totnl The totnl time is proportionad to ?
1 , the nulubel of lifts , , the time of lift .
] becomes C0llstnt , is an coJlstant .
But and onstauts in these } ) erinlents , and hence find equatiou ( 1 ) leduced to the follo ( 2 ) this is \amp ; ov ] in , in , hich the ding 10 Rev. S. Haughton on the Law of Fatigue .
[ June 16 , This represents cuspided cubic ; and we required to find values for and A which will satisfy the experiments . .
The second method of applying the of Fatigue leads to an equation which represents the experiments better than equation ( 2 ) ; and the principle on which it is founded is probably a more correct application of the of Fatigue .
I assume that fatigue will occur when the dynamical work multiplied by its rate , together with the statical work muItiplied by its rate , shall be constant ; or if represent totnl work of ffi kin , and rate of both works , then constant . . . .
( 3 ) This is equivalent to ssuming the total rate of work to bo , ( 4 ) as in the problem of tho spec.ific gravity of a binary compound .
Equatiou ( 3 ) becomes at once constant , or 01 , since iLnd x constants , We uow to take equations ( 2 ) and ( 5 ) in succession , and fiud hich of them corresponds best to the observations .
The method I follo ed is this : any value of be assumed , and iu equations ( 2 ) and ( 5 ) for all the values of ; the values of will differ mors or less from each other : let be , the test differeuce any two values , and let be the number of observations and .
A the sum of the values of ; then I determine for succesand is the double asymptote , corresponding to and acusp at negative infinity .
Thel:e is a hyperbolic lying eeIl Pand P. portion of tho with we are concerned lies eeIl OX and numbel of lifts ( n ) attains a maximum MM ' when ecomes asymptotic t of ; flni v 1876 .
] Rev. S. Haughton on the Law of Fatigue .
sive value of the quantity , and finally choose that of which makes lninimum .
The deviatiou per cent. of any value of A from the mean alue is of course ximum e per cent. , where is the total number of experiments .
Proceeding in this manner , find , from equatiou ( 2 ) , the . . . . . . . .
( Dr. Macalister .
) gives a maximum error in the value of A of per cent. the same method 10 equatiou ( 5 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 . . . . . . .
( Dr. illacalister .
) and not a cusp .
The curve is central a point of icxion ot the and ( he axis is asymptotic on both sides .
The tangent at the origin is reaches a imum f. the , to .
Tr. W. Crookcs on [ Juue 15 , This gives a maximum error in the value of A of per cent. Hence we adopt the equation as the best of the observations , and as the best applioation of the of Fatigue .
find JMean . . . .
We may vow proceed to calculate the values of from cquatiou ( 5 ) , the constants ; Dr. calister .
This Table shows a very ctory agreement of the observations with the Law of Fatigue expressed by equation ( 5 ) ; this agreement also shown in the Diagram on p. , where the cnrve is to scale , and where the observations rked by the small circles .
X. On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
Influence of the Residual Gas .
( Preliminary Notice .
) By WILLIAM .
\amp ; c. Reccived Juuc 13 , 1876 .
1 ve recently been engaged hich are likely to throw much light some obscnl.e ) oints i the theory of the .
In these I been assisted by , both ) matheulaticftl

