]\gt ; On XIV .
W. M. HICKS , M.A. , nunicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R. Received Februal 21 , \mdash ; Read March , 1881 .
THE following inyestigation was originally undertaken as the foundation for certain researches on the theory of vortex rings , with especial reference to a of gravitation propounded by the author in the Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
As the results seemed interesting in themselves , and as they also serve as a basis for other inyestigations , more particularly in electricity conduction of heat , I have thought it advisable to publish it a paper , especially as I calmot hope to find leisure for some time to complete my original purpose .
The word " " tore\ldquo ; is used as a name for an , here estri ted to a section , and by " " tol.oidal functions\ldquo ; are understood functions which satisfy LApLACE'S equation and which are suitable for conditions giyen over the surfaces of tores .
The first section is devoted to the general theory of the employment of two dinlensional equipotential lines in certain cases as orthogonal co-ordinates in problems of three dimensions .
From this we pass at once to the particular case where the twodimensional lines are the system of circles through two fixed points the system of circles orthogonal to them .
It is shown that these satisfy the conditions of applicability .
By revolution about the line through the two points we have functions suitable for problems connected with two spheres .
By revolntion about the line bisecting at right angles the distance between the points we have functions associated with anchor-rings or tores .
By the first system it is also possible to deduce functions for what may be called a self-intersecting tore , and by the second for two intersectiug spheres .
A second application is made for the particular case where the opening of tore vanishes and there is a double cuspidal point at the centre .
The section is devoted to the development of zonal toroidal functions\mdash ; that is , for conditions symmetrical about the axis of a tore .
It is shown that for space not containing the critical axis these are the same as zonal rmonics of Throughout the paper the axis of a tore is taken to be the line perpendicular to its centre ; the cirole traced out by the centre of tho generating circle of a tore will be callod the circular axis , and the circle by the two points abo ve mentioned the critical circle .
ginary argumen TOROIDAL is in uestion of imaginary argument and ( when the whole of space outside atore is in question ) of orders .
For space inside a tore we have a corresponding analogy with zonal monics of the second kind .
The properties of these functions are found to have analogies with those of the ordinary spherical harmonics , but with essential differences .
The space outside a tore is different from that outside a sphere in being cyclic ; in general , then , the functions for space outside will not be determinate from the surface conditionS alone .
The above functions are suitable only when there is no cyclic function : it is shown how to obtain a function which will complete the tion .
The third section deals with tesseral toroidal functions , which come into use for the most general case of non-symmetrical conditions .
It is shown how the different orders ) ranks depend on each other , so that they may be calculated in terms of two .
Integral expressions are also obtained , as in the second section , which are needed in finding the coefficients in expansions in series .
The fourth section briefly notices the functions suitable for tores without a central opening .
These functions bear the same relation to the foregoing functions that cylindric harmonics ( BESSEL'S fimctions ) do to spherical harmonics .
In the Jifth section a few examples are given of the application of the method , such as the potential of a ring , the electric potential of a tore and its capacity , the electric potential of a tore and electrified circular wire whose axis is the same as that of the tore , the potential under the influence of electrified point arbitrarily placed , and the velocity potential for a tore moving parallel to its axis , as well as the energy of the motion .
Of previous writings on the subject , or nearly connected therewith , I am only acquainted with two .
In RIEMANN'S ' Gesammelte Werke : ( chap .
xxiv .
) is a short paper of six pages , " " Ueber das Potential eines nges.\ldquo ; He arrives at the same differential equation as ( 7 ) in this paper , points out that a solution can be expressed as hypergeometric series in several ways , and that each function can be expressed in terms of two , which are elliptic integrals of the first and second kinds .
The paper is a posthumous one and is not developed .
There is a note on the same subject by W. D. NIVEN in the ' Messenger of Mathematics ' for December , 1880 .
Though not bearing on the same subject , a paper may be mentioned by C. NEUMANN , " " A]lgemeine Losung des Problelnes uber den stationaren Temperaturzustand eines homogenen Korpers welcher von irgend zwei nichtconcentrischen Kugelflachen wird\ldquo ; ( H. W. SCHMIDT , Halle ) .
This is a pamphlet of about 150 pages .
He uses co-ordinates analogous to those in the present paper , but the method of development is very different .
The functions are spherical and cylindric hsxmonics of real argument , and those of the second kind do not enter .
He considers the stationary.temperature in shell bounded by non-concentric spheres ; in an infinite medium in which axe two spherical cavities ; and similar cases when the boundaries touch .
Its interest in con- The greater portion of the following was completed before I became acquainted with this paper of or with of NEUMANN'S mentioned below .
MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
nexion with the following pages consists chiefly in the fact that the potential is expressed in a series of the form and that the orthogonal co-ordinates employed are closely allied .
I. GENERAL OF CURVILINEAR -ORDINATES IN THRLE DIMENSIONS .
SPECIAL CASE .
1 .
It is well known that if LAPLACE'S equation be referred to a system of orthogonal co-ordinates ) it takes the form ( 1 ) where Let us now take to be any conjugate functions of being the cylindrical co-ordinates of a point .
Also take to represent a series of planes through the axis of , so that Then are orthogonal surfaces and So that equation ( 1 ) becomes In this write , then ' Here since ?
are conjugate functions of ( say ) so that ( 2 ) By putting we get the equation for functions satisfying conditions symmetrical about an axis which by an obvious analogy may be called zonal functions .
In general , put , then must satisfy When are fimctions such that is of the form , it is possible to obtain solutions of the form where which are such that are constant when is constant and constant when is constant .
As an instance of functions satisfying these conditions we may take the elliptic co-ordinates Here And the equations for the functions X , are MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
The first produces functions .
to those discussed in this paper\mdash ; the second spherical harmonics of argument , and order : The surfaces ?
const .
give confocal spheroids .
Since , it will result that expressed as the sum of terms of the form , where are spherical harmonics of argumen are spherical harmonics of imaginary argument .
In tlJe applications that follow it happens that 1/ , are such that a function of only , say ] ; in this case we obtain solutions by putting , where ( 3 ) The solutions of this equation for may be called zonal functions , for ?
seotorial functions , and for general , tesseral functions .
If are two independent solutions of this equation the general of is given by If be given over any two surfaces it is clear that the constants can be determined in the above by means of FOURIER'S theorem .
This will be more fully discussed in the sequel .
2 .
Before passing on to particular cases , there is one l.emarkable result to be noticed .
If in the equation transformed as above , we put then satisfies the equation Hence if be any two-dimensional potential fimction , then -dimensional potential function .
Since this expression changes sign when increases by it is not suitable for all space ; but diaphragm must be supposed to extend from the axis of to infinity in one direction , nd to be impassable .
Though the result is interesting it does not seem to carry important consequences , ] is not sufficient generality in the expression .
We choose the form of the surface , and certain other conditions , but all the surface conditions are not arbitrary .
Thus let us take an anchor ring divided by a plane through its axis .
Let us keep the curved surface and one end at zero temperature , then the distribution of temperature at the other end is determinate though its absolute magnitude is arbitrary .
To prove this , we notice that if be the radii of the circular axis , and circle respectively , and the of any point from the circular a and This is to be zero when .
and But now the distribution of temperature at the other end is given by leaving only the absolute magnitude A at our disposal .
Further , there must be supposed a generation of heat all along the circular axis .
example serves to show the artificiality of solution given by this form .
3 .
For the case of an anchor ring , or tore , it is at once evident that the proper functions to take are the well known ones given by viz. : const .
a series of circles through two points and const .
a series of circles orthogonal to them , and each containing one of the fixed points .
If these be made to revolve about the line through the fixed points , we get functions proper for two spheres ; or the surface formed by the revolution of a circle about aline cutting it ( v ) .
If they revolve about the axis of , we get functions proper for circular tores ; or for two intersecting spheres ( v ) .
It will be useful to set down here in a compact form , formulae relating to these functions , which will be required later on .
Most of them are easily proved and are set down without proof .
( 4 ) MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
whence the statement made above that .
Let be the radii of the circular axis and normal section of a tore the radius of a sphere ( v ) ; then ( 6 ) Further , if , the adius o tore to a point anglc with the plame of the With the bove v of the general equation toroidal tesseral functions is ( 7 ) There is one case in which the functions used boy become .
: when is zero , or the tores are such that and they touch themselves the origin .
In this case the proper curves are the two orthogonal families of circles , , the one set the axis of , and the other the axis of at the origin\mdash ; viz. : ( 8 ) clnd It will be shown that between the and there is a similar relation to between cylinders and spheres , and between the functions to that between Harmonics and BESSEL'S functions .
4 .
The potential due to a ring of radius , centre at and plame perpendicular to axis of , is In the case where it is the critical circle and here In general the distance between two points is , which expressed in bipolar -ordinates becomes ff MR. W. M. ON TOROIDAL UNCTIONS .
II .
ZONAL TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
5 .
In the case where the conditions are symmetrical about the axis , is independent of and is of the form where is the general integral involving two arbitrary constants of the equation From the potential of a ring , at the end of the last section , it is at once seen that a particular integral for space , not including the critical circle , when is In the same way , calling the potential of the ring , it be shown by finding that From analogy with this we might assume and by substituting we should find it possible by putting or - to the equation .
But the following , by making use of theorems lready proved for zonal harmonics , seems to be more direct .
Putting , in the equation : whence it is at once evident that is a zonal spherical hal.monic of degree , with a pure imaginary for argument .
HEINE , in his ' Handbuch der Kugelfunctionen , ' 18 MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL UNCTIONS .
has to some extent considered spherical harmonics with imaginary argument , but he not developed them , at least for fractional indices , in a form suitable for application here .
Consequently they will be here considered independently and with especial reference to physical applications .
Hereafter , will be used in general to represent , respectively .
We have then in general where two independent integrals of equation ( 9 ) .
We first discuss the integral adready obtained ( 10 ) It is well known that this integral is the same as ( 11 ) the second solution obtained above ; this may be easily shown by the transformation 1 or by means of the sequence equation ( 14 ) below .
6 .
Discussion of We have Whence ( 12 ) Similarly from ( 13 ) Combining ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) we have . . .
( 14 ) This sequence equation may also be deduced at once from ( 10 ) or ( 11 ) .
MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
In ( 14 ) put with then or where and It is clear from this that is of the form where are rational integral algebraical functions of of degree ?
, and of degree .
The first three values are ( writing ) We can now show that are of the form For supposing of this , i. e. , wanting every other power of , it follows at once that is of the same form , and it is seen above that is of this form , whence the statement is generally true , and so also for Now satisfies the equation ( 15 ) with Hence substituting the above value for we must have .
( 16 ) also . .
MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
Hence From this .
Sum of products two and two together , with the exception of all products where tlJe subscript numbers are successive .
Assume that of products of the up to together with the exception of any in which successive ipts occur .
Then prod .
together , { Prod .
together up to without successive subscripts .
} Whence by induction the assumption is seen to be universally true .
It may be thus stated , is the sum together of the terms 2.4 ' 4 .
' 6.8 ' ' all products being thrown out in which , regarding the numbers in the denominators as undecomposable , a square occurs in the denominator .
We have This result is of very little use for application .
If the co-efficients are needed for particular values of they can be very rapidly calculated by means of equation ( 15 ) , while if their general values are to be tabulated , equation ( 16 ) will serve to calculate them in succession .
Further , is the same kind of function as , in every way except that it does not contain ; in fact is the same function of , . .
, that is of ; calling this we can then write .
W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
may be expressed as elliptic rals , .
: ( 17 ) whel.e or ' and Hence ( 18 ) where we may suppose the numerical factor dropped if we are dealing with the differential equation , but not if we are dealing with the sequence equation .
The value of when is is These statements are at once seen to be true .
Since becomes infinite along the critical circle it follows that the are not the suitable functions to use by which to express functions which are finite in spaces containing the critical circle , i. e. , within any tore .
But it is finite and continuous for all space outside any tore .
7 .
If we put for in equation ( 9 ) we find in the usual way Regarded as an analytical solution of the equation tlus is comI ) ] , but in this form it is altogether useless for application .
Now HEINE shown that the spherical harmonic of the second kind is expressible in the form *functioncn , We first show that this with a modification satisfies the equation ( 9 ) .
For putting . . .
( 19 ) Here also as in the case of the functions it can be easily shown that and Hence as before where MR. W. M. HICKS ON ) FUNCTIONS .
In these change into , theu Again , write , then , and when or , or Hence . . . . .
( 20 ) Also Now and ( 21 ) and finally ( 22 ) The value of for is , and for is zero .
Hence suitable for space within a tore , and not for space including the axis .
8 .
The foregoing value of has been obtained from analogy with that for ; but point from the origin is Hence Now , firstly , since this is to be finite throughout all space not including the axis .
Also it is clear since that can be expanded in a series of powers of , and therefore in a series of cosines of multiple angles only .
If this be done the coefficient of must be Hence by FOURIER'S theorem \ldquo ; If we define so as to make , then .
( 23 ) We will now show that this expression for agrees with the former one .
Integrating by parts and dropping as unnecessary in the sequence equation Hence MR. W. M. HICKS TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
The same sequence equation as before .
Hence it is only necessary further to show that are the same in the two cases .
Now where If be eliminated between and result the equations Hence by the second quadric transformation and since Again Now which on reduction and substitution for and We have in fact proved that By means of the identity or can be expressed in the following manner , viz. : 9 .
The following relations between and functions will be useful in applications , viz. : ( 24 ) They are easily proved , for substituting from their sequence equations it follows that MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
Again In a similar way ( ) may also be proved .
10 .
As bearing on the question of the convergency or divergency of series occurring in any investigation it will be important to consider the values of when is infinite .
Takin the explession for it is clear at once that Further since increases with is positive , hence Also from ' Also since decreases with is negative , and therefore Hence but tends to the limit unity , so that the series is divergent .
But the series is convergent , except when Further if here standing ) Hence the series and is therefore convergent .
Much more then is the series convergent .
Again if and as before , the series is always convergent .
11 .
Both the functions , except along the critical circle and axis respectively , make finite , continuous , and single valued when is integral .
The first statement has already been proved , the second follows from the way in which are expressible in terms of two successive or and the third is seen to be at once true by rating round a circuit lying on tore , when is seen to vanish .
Now the space is a cyclic one .
Hence the above functions are not suitable for expressing any general conditions in the space without a tore , though they are suitable for any given surface conditions whatever .
Still keeping to physical analogies in order to obtain solutions suitable to this case , we will consider the potential due to a vortex ring or electric current along the critical circle .
This would give cyclic functions , but also certain surface conditions .
In any particular case then it will be necessary to take account of these surface conditions by means of the or .
This potential is measured by the solid angle subtended by the ring .
The ( solid angle ) can be expressed in the form ; .
denoting or where MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
To complete the general expression for we must therefore add a term ( 25 ) We shall denote this by the letter , so that the solid angle varies as III .
SECTORIAL AND FUNCTIONS .
12 .
The differential equation which has to be considered in the general case is ( 7 ) which in the case of sectorial functions becomes In the rest of this paper we shall call the order of the function and the rank .
Calling the solution of ( 7 ) , we proceed to show how can be expressed in terms of Dropping the for the time , assume Then writing , and substituting in the equation which satisfies , making use of the equation for to express , and in terms of and we shall get Now choose , so that If we try , we shall find that both the equations can be satisfied simtlltaneously if Hence , whatever be , the equation holds .
Again , we may also determine , so that In this case the equations for and are which are satisfied by Hence , .
The toroidal functions themselves are , and the two particular integrals are represented by .
For these functions the aboye equations become and similar equations for the Q. Since the solutions of the differential equation are multiplied by an arbitrary constant , we may , when we confine ourselves bo one of the above equations , put A or , and after solving the equation of mixed differences multiply the result by an arbitral.y constant .
But if we wish to combine both formulae so as to eliminate the differential co-efficient in them , then the in both must be the same , and a relation will hold between A and B. This we proceed to find .
Dropping the ( m ) as unneces- sary , write and snbstitute therein Whence MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
which since becomes Hence If we choose then these conditions are satisfied , and the formulae agree with those found for the zonal function when .
Hence From this there follows at once the sequence equation . . .
( 27 ) In this write Then whence , if and are the same functions of \amp ; c. , as are of \fnof ; m ( 28 ) These formulae hold for the two particular and , and they express the tesseral function of any order and rank in terms of sectorial functions and tesseral functions of the first order proved in the case of zonal functions , it may be shown that ( 29 ) also that ( 30 ) 13 .
In the way as relations have been found between successive orders of toroidal functions , relations may be found between successive Not putting the older in evidence , write Proceeding as before it will be found that must satisfy the equations which are satisfied by leading to the relations In precisely the same manner it may be shown that and that If we put then MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
633 and when the have the same values as for the toroidal functions already discussed .
Finally then , , . . .
( 31 ) from which the sequence equation follows at once . . . .
( 32 ) If we write in this then By combining the formulae ( 26 ) and ( 31 ) it is also possible to obtain relations between order and rank ether .
For instance , from the first of equation ( 26 ) and the second of equation ( 31 ) , we get with three other relations .
The four formulae are .
( 32a ) . .
We are now in a position to reduce ] further the relations ( 29 ) , ( 30 ) .
For putting in the second of whence But ( 32 ) Therefore the above But from the first of ( 32a ) Hence and ( 33 ) In the same way , or by substituting in the first of ( 26 ) or the first of ( 31 ) , there follows 14 .
From the formulae now developed it is possible to find the complete integral of the general differential equation .
But as in applications the co-efficients are determined in terms of definite integrals it will be also to consider the solutions from a different point of view .
If any potential function be expanded in a series of multiple sines and cosines of , multiplied by we know that the co-efficients must be of the .
Now such a function is the inverse distance of any point from a fixed point .
Let us choose as fixed point , to simplify the expression as much as possible , a point on the axis of within the critical circle , say .
Then the distance of from this is Hence if be expanded in a series , the coefficient of nv will be of the form .
Further , for points within the tore , whilst for points without , and therefore including the axis Hence or BQ , according as Now if the fixed point be on the critical circle is always equal to zero and MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
Here unless .
Hence We have already found that we are therefore led to expect that in genelal which can easily be shown to be the case .
By taking the fixed point at the origin we have Here unless , and then an expression which has been already found .
These expressions as single definite integrals are already known to be solutions of the differential , and are given by HEINE in his 'Kugelfunctionen .
' They may easily be proved directly , and connected with the values foumd already by the sequence equations , and the values for , \amp ; c. Thus writing the integral is easily shown to satisfy equations ( 32 ) , and the only further condition requisite is that A shall be chosen so as to make it agree with Now Hence and Returning to the general integral , since enter symmetrically , and since if : , it follows that or according as , where is independent of or .
Hence may be determined by giving particular values to or .
Suppose at the origin then To find the value of this expand the expressions under the integrals in ascending powers of , which is ultimately to vanish .
Then if the integral is finite ( say ) Hence where .
of in Hence MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
6.37 This at once gives us an expression for , viz. : where is some constant depending on .
This has now to be found . .
we write it is easily shown that This will agree with ( 27 ) if Hence and where is a function of only .
Here again this is found to satisfy which agrees with ( 32 ) if and But from the known value of we see that ] .
W. M. ON TOROIDAL FUNCTTONS .
Also ( say ) Since the distance between two points is It follows that the potential for a unit point at is for points outside the tore ; whilst for points inside , it is } ( 35 ) where , when or } , half the above value for must be taken .
When except when when , which agrees with the value found in section II .
Also behaves in a similar way to for increasing , whilst when is large , as is clear at once from the integral expression for Also since it is clear that when ?
for all values of .
Also behaves as for increasing IV .
TORES WITH NO CENTRAL OPENING .
15 .
In the case where the hole of a tore vanishes the functions hitherto considered become nugatory .
In this case we must have recourse to the co-ordinates already referred to in ( s ) .
It is not here intended to develop the theory with the fulness of the general case .
The functional differential equation has been shown to be MR. W. HICKS ON TOROIDAL UNCTIONS .
639 In this write when the equation of cylindric harmonics ( BESSEL'S functions ) with inary argument .
Let G. be the two particular integrals corresponding to the cylindric function of the first and second kind .
Then And the potential nction can be expressed in the form Many of the properties of these functions can be at once written down from the analogous properties of \amp ; c. So also and which equations the also satisf.y .
The sequence equation has been solved by LOMMLLL , so as to fully express and in terms of in any particular case where the values are required it is best to calculate successively by means of the sequence equation direct .
In the space within a tore can become infinite , .
: at ) origin , and is never zero ; this is evident from the equation * ' Studien uber die Bessel'schen ]unctionen , ' p. 4 .
This may be proved as follows : Amongst many integral expressions known for one is given } ) HEINE , viz. : This suggests This is easily verified , for substituting in the differential equation it has to be shown that which , on integrating the first term by parts follows at once .
From this form we gather that when whence is the proper function for space within a tore .
From the sequence equation this is seen to apply also to the in general .
V. XAMPLES AND APPLICATIONS .
In this section I propose to give a few examples of the application of the foregoing theory , to the solution of physical problems .
16 .
Potential of a ring whose is the same as the critical circle .
Let be its distance from the plane of the critical circle , its radius , its dipolar co-ordinates .
Then the potential is This expanded takes the form for points outside the tore * Kugelfunctionen , ' p. 191 .
' MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
For a point on the axis , and the above become respectively and ) .
It will therefore be more convenient to determine the A from simplified case .
It is clear that ) be expsnded in a series of powers of cosines of and therefore of multiples of the same .
Hence and Therefore But Hence in general the potential for points outside the tore is Consequently the potential for points within the tore is ( 36b ) Both these series have been shown to be convergent .
If be the whole mass of the It follows as a corollary that the potential for mass I on is , for points not on the axis , Also , putting at and at , and making zero finite , the potential for a uniform field of force parallel to axis is . . . . . .
( 38 ) 17 .
Electric of tore its pacity .
Let be the constant potential of the tore .
Then must be determined , FIO that may for all values of when Hence and and ( 39 ) This series is easily seen to be convergent , since ( $b 10 ) it is less than ' where To find the capacity of the ring we must take the surface integral of over it .
So , denoting the capacity , nvdv or dropping the dashes , and Now ' and whence ( 24 ) ( 40 ) MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
This expression for the capacity in an infinite sel'ies is more convergent When the section of the ring is not very large compal.ed with the radius of its circular axis , very nearly or ( 40a ) where Measured in terms of the capacity of a sphere whose radius is equal to tangent from the centre to the tore , the capacity is When the omission of the term depending on introduces an error of about 27 per cent. may be expressed in terms of the an gle subtended.at the centre by the tore , .
: if this angle be When about capacity of aboye sphere ( about ) 18 .
We may find the potential also for the electricity induced on a tore , put to earth , by a charged circular wire with the same axis as the tore .
the potential of the wire for points within is ( 36b ) whilst that for points outside the tore due to charge induced ou it is *The expression given in the ' Proceedings ' is incorrect .
the condition is that when , and Whence ( 41 ) and the general solution when the tore is insulated and has a charge of its own is found by adding the potential found in the last article .
Also if the section of the wire be very small we can find the capacity of the system approximately , by supposing the wire to coincide with one of the equipotential surfaces near it .
19 .
As an example of the use of tesseral functions with constant surface conditions , we will take the problem of the electrical induction on a tore under the influence of a point arbitrarily placed .
We lose no generality by supposing it in the plane of ( xz ) ; let then its co-ordinates be .
The potential due to this for points within has been found at the end of Section III .
, As before , the potential of the induced charge will be of the form and ( the tore ) ( 42 ) When the point is on the axis , all these terms vanish ( S 14 ) except for If necessary , also , the capacity of a tore and a very small sphere can be found approximately from these formulae .
20 .
One more example illustrating the application to cases of differential surface conditions may be given .
Take the case of a tore moving parallel to its axis rough an infinite fluid with velocity V. Here the conditions are that if be the velocity potential for fluid past it , an when ?
MR. W. .
HICKS TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
The expansion for has already been given , .
: ( for points not on the axis ) To determine we notice that at the critical circle ( as everywhere on the phne of Taking a point outside the critical circle The easiest way to this is to make the point approach the critical circle , i.e. , , when which gives the theorem 2 cosech , Hence where when for all values of .
The terms in would merely increase by the series for a constant , we may therefore without loss of genel.ality put , and then : using dashed letters to denote differential coefficients , when Now it is easily shown that with a similar formula for , we may hence write the above equation with initial equation To get a first integral of this write the successive equations in order , multip ] those containing by and add , we get . .
Put then since Hence and is undetermined to the extent of ; but since the velocity potential must be finite everywhel.e , must be chosen so that the series shall be gent It will first be necessary to prove that is finite when is large ; must then be chosen so that vanishes for infinite , and lastly , it will remain to show that with MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
647 this value of the serieS is , from which the yergenCy of i ) will flow at once .
Now Both the series on the right are finite , hence so also are .
and , and tends to a finite limit with increasing It is therefore possible to give a value which shall make this limit zero .
It is given by whence ( 43 ) Lastly it remains to consider the convergency of the series .
When ? ?
is very large tends to the limit - which is Also since Hence the series under consideration is The sum of the first set of terms is of the second set is ; both of these are finite .
Hence the sum , is finite and r ) fortiori the sum Finally then the velocity potential for fluid motion due to a ) moving to itself through a fluid at rest at infinity is where is given by and and where . .
stand for ' We may now find the energy of the fluid motion .
This is , the density fluid being unity , and But But which is more convergent than the series for Tn a similar manner may be the locity potential for any motion of transor the magnetism induced in a uniform field of force .
[ September ; 1881.\mdash ; At the suggestion of one of the Referees I give a few additional numerical illustrations .
The rst is the ratio of the density of electricity at a point on a tore furthest from the axis to that at a point nearest the axis .
The potential due to the distribution of electricity on the tore is given by ( 39 ) .
The normal force at any point of the tore is whilst for points furthest from the axis , and for points nearest .
Putting these remembering that and , it is easily shown that the above ratio is If the first sequence equations in be added together there results whence ) Further , putting , the sequence equation for is whence as before Finally then the ratio of the densities is If terms higher than be neglected this is I have not been able to find a finite expression for ) , but t , he ratio of to is very small , the first two terms sufficient .
In other case 6.50 MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL IONS .
we can easily lind the limits of error produced by neglectin terms after a given one .
Thus suppose all after be neglected , then S 10 whence it follows that Similarly it be shown that , being odd For the two cases of ( corresponding very nearly to and respectively ) the ratios are 5 171 and 2656 .
The ratio of the velocity of the fluid at the centre of a tore to that of the tore itself when it moves without cyclic motion , parallel to its axis , is easily found .
The point is given by which rnakes .
The velocity of the fluid therefore ratio In the able below are given the values in two cases of ( the effective nass of the fluid measured in terms of the fluid displaced ) , and , the ratio of the ocity at the centre , to that at an infinite distance when the tore is held at rest in the stream .
Suppose the held in uniform field of electric force parallel to its axis .
The potential of the field is nv MR. W. M. HICKS ON TOROIDAL FUNCTIONS .
Hence , supposing the tore to be at potential and to have no charge , the potential of the disturbed field is , dashed letters functions of The density at any point of the tore is Now at the points where the osculating plane touches the tore and whence or The greatest density on a sphere similarly influenced is .
The ratio is then The value of this ratio for the cases already considered are for , 675 , , sin6o , 698 When the direction of the electric field is to the axis , its potential is Hence clearly the functions for the expansion of this are the tesseral functions , , and the conditions , since the potential holds for space outside the tore , are that when for all values of Hence or and But From the first of which enables us to write the above in several ways .
As before , the densities of electricity induced at points and are easily found .
]

