]\gt ; Mr. R. T. Glazebrook .
[ June 19 , XVI .
' Double Refraction and Dispersion in Iceland Spar .
An Investigation with a Comparison with Huyghens ' Construction for the xtraordinary Wave By R. T. GLAZEBROOK , M.A. , Fellow of imity College , Cambridge .
Communicated J. CLERK MAXWELL , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) In the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society vol. xxvii , p. 498 , the results of some experiments on double refraction in aragonite are given .
them I was lcd to the conclusion that there were slight differences between Fresnel 's theory and experiment , and that possibly there was some connexion between these differences and the wave-length of the light used .
The paper , of which this is an abstract , is an account of results of similar experiments on Iceland spar .
The method of the iments is due to Professor Stokes Brit. Assoc. Reports 1862 ) .
A prism is cut from the crystal to be examined , and the position of its faces with reference to the crystallographic axes carefully determined .
'rhen we may show with the usual notation thaI ) tall ( I ) .
this by observing the angles of incidence and deviation of a pencil of parallel rays incident on a prism of known refracting anglo can find , and hence get or ; then from the formula ( II ) .
velocity of normal propagation in air , in the crysta ] , we can definite dircctions .
But Huyghens ' conbles us to determine from theory the value of , and we have hcncc a mchod of Lrison .
ssor Stokcs has made a series of expcriments on Iceland spar by this , and stated results in ' Procccdings of the Royal vol. , 443 .
He found that to of the error of his bout 0 in the index ' construction was fully confirmed .
The details of his experiments have not published , and it ap1879 .
] Double Refraction and Dispersion in Iceland Spar .
203 peared it ght be useful to have a series of results which would serve in future as a test of any proposed theory of double refraction without the necessity of a further lecourse to experiment .
It is therefore largely with object in view that I lay the results of vork before the Socicty .
I have sought to get a series of values of or for the thrce hydrogen lines , in directions over of from the optic axis .
this purpose I used four prisms , the of each was very approximately perpendicular to the optic axis .
The axis inclined at of , and respectivcly , to the nol.mal to one of the faccs of the prism , the angles being considered positive when the optic axis and of the prism lie on the side of the normal .
By this means I was cnabled to a series of measurements in directions from about on one side of the axis to on the iher .
Each of the measured qualltities llsed finally was the mean of .
The difference between the two was in only 18 per cent. of the observations as great as 20 so that the diffcrence veen the mean and an tion only rarely as great as The spectrometer used one by Grubb , of Dnblin , kindly lcnt me by Professor Stokes .
It reads with verniers to I found that errors of in the observed quantities tnkell so ; to prodllce the test effect in the result would at most variations of in the value of Precautions were to the room at as possible a uniform temperatul.e .
The position of the of the prism ith rencc to the mbic faces of the stal was detcrmined by cnrcful mcasurenlent .
results adopted in the calculations the menn of ten .
The results of the expcriments al.e given a series of tables .
For the theorctical calculation we ve , if , be principal refractive indices , the angle betwecm nornlal and the axis , We require then to find and is refractive index for ray , ruled was from ations on it in diffcrent positions of prisnls .
is the of for a at llgles to the nxis , and was found from obbcrvation on light in that direction .
The results are given below .
Mr. R. T. Glazebrook .
[ June 19 , Values of principal refractive indices in Iceland spar for the three hydrogetl lines .
The values of are determined from the known position of the wave in question , with reference to the normals to the faces of the prism , and of these normals with reference to the optic axis .
The results of the comparison are as follows:\mdash ; For the red line , just in the neighbourhood of the major axis of the elliptic section , the curve given by experiment lies inside that given by theory , the two coincide at about from this axis , henceforth onwards experimental curve lies outside , and the two coincide again near the minor axis .
The greatest difference amounts to rather over .
, about half way between the axes .
If we decrease slightly the major axis of the ellipse as given by theory , we may say that the result of experiment is expressed by an oval curve coinciding with Huyghens ' ellipse at the extremities of its axes , and lying outside of it for the resb of its course , the greatest difference between the radii vectores being about midway between the axes , and there to about part of elther .
The experiments for the ray lead to similar results , the differences , however , between theory and experiment being markedly greaer , and with the assumed values for , negative near the minor axis , so that the experimental curve is on the inside there .
For , taking the values of , given above , the differences are negative , and the experimental curve , the interior , near the axes , positive in the middle part of the arc , and the experimental curve outside , they amount to rather over when a maximum .
Thus , the results each of the three rays point to the same conand would lead us to infer that a section through the axis of the surface of wave blowness in Iceland spar would not be an ellipse , bnt an oval curve , lying slightly outside the ellipse , and that the difference between the two becomes greater as the wave-length aecreases .
These differences , however , are very small , .
to only about 0002 for the violet I have , moreover , been able to prove that no variations in the alues of the constants of theory or the position of the plane of the prism , with reference to the optic axis , will produce the effect re1879 .
] Double and Dispersion in lceland .
205 quired to bring theory and experiment into roement .
The results arising from vant of achromatism in the lenses have been considered at some length .
I have also endeavoured to show that , between the limits of the lines and , the tion between refractive index and the waveleng.th may be expl.essed by means of the formulae .
the thrce rays , travelling the same direction , we have three equations , ecting \amp ; c. , ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) .
The valucs of found by combining equations , ttnd two , differ on the by , and diflcrences arc sometimes positive , sometimcs tive .
the mean of the valnes of the val [ le of deduced from equation 1 , I find the valucs deduced for and diffel from the observed values by as nlllch as , the meilll only bein .
This is considerably less in amount diffcrences found by Dr. Hopkinson of Socicty vol. xxvi , p. 292 ) between the values of , as given by experiment 011 four kinds of glass , and deduced from terms of a formula , I had hoped that , in the of , it be found that the quantity obeyed tcly .
This has proved not to bc diffcrences arc , on hc whole , greater than those for the , of

