On the primitive Crystals of Carbonate of Lime , Bitter-Spar , andlronSpar .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read February 13 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 159 .
] In consequence of the supposed agreement of these three minerals , in the same primitive form of their crystals , the two latter have been arranged by the Abb6 Haiiy among those varieties of carbonate of lime which contain substances foreign to its proper chemical nature .
It has been objected to M. Haiiy , that the magnesian carbonate of lime , or bitter-spar , is a proper chemical compound , and as such should have a form different from that of mere carbonate of lime ; and that since iron-spar frequently contains little or no lime , its crystalline form should also be different .
It is now found by the author of the present communication , that such differences as the theory appeared to require do actually exist .
Respecting the primitive rhomboid of carbonate of lime , he has already communicated to the Society an observation , that its angle is greater by full half a degree than that assigned to it by crystallographers ; and he now adds two corresponding observations respecting those substances which are so nearly allied to it .
By employment of the same improved method of measurement by means of the reflective goniometer , he has found that the obtuse angle of the primitive rhomboid of bitter-spar , exceeds that of carbonate of lime by full 1ยง 10 ' ; and that the corresponding angle of iron-spar exceeds the same angle by nearly 2 ?
, and accordingly is , in fact , 2 ?
2 greater than former measures had given it .
The angle of carbonate of lime is here said to be 105 ?
, and nearly 5 ' .
That of bitter-spar 10610 ; that of iron-spar 107 ? .
And since in the last instance the author found the substance under examination to be wholly free from lime , he infers that when the same form occurs in other specimens that do contain carbonate of lime , it does not depend on the presence of that.ingredient , but depends on the carbonate of lime alone .
He thinks it , however , possible , that in certain mixtures each of these substances may exert their crystalline powers ; and in consequence of the near agreement of their primitive angle , may occasion that degree of curvature of the surfaces which gives the peculiar lustre of what is called pearl-spar .
Among the varieties of these minerals which contain manganese , the author has thought it not improbable that the form of some of them might be altered or modified by its presence ; but he has not hitherto succeeded in detecting any other form which could be ascribed to that ingredient .

