]\gt ; Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
March 21 , 1878 .
Sir HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. : ' Contact Theory of Voltaic Action Parts I and II .
By .
E. and PERRY , Professors in the Inlpelial Colleg.c of inccring , Tokio , Japall .
Communicated by Sir F.R.S. Received October 2 , 1877 .
PART I. I. contact theory of voltaic action seems to have undergone no developnnent since date of Sir W. Thomson 's experiment , which consisted in collnecting a plate of zinc a plate of copper by means of a drop of water , hen it was found that the metals were brought to the electric potcntial , although connected they were different ) otentials .
He believed that any electroly te would in the same way as the water of his experiment , equalthe potentials of any two metals connected by it .
The electroforce of a simple cell , ought , accordance with the theol.y , to be equal to the difference of potentials between zinc and copper in contact .
A test nded on this deduction was very difficult to apply , there was 110 exact determination of the difference of potential ziuc and copper in contact , Sir W. Thomson , in his experiment , having really mcasured the diffcrence of potential between air at the face of a zinc plate , and air at the surface of a copper plate .
In the absence of this test , the equality of the electromotive forces of simple cells in which zinc and coppcr the metals ( the liquids being water , dilute sulphuric acid , and sulphate of ) was held as a proof of the theory .
it is that en two pieces of the same dipped into any two liquids , are into one another , a difference of potcntials is established between the metals , and the force of a ccll of this can in no depend on a difference of potentials due to metallic contact .
So although in such a cell there is au action is somewhat the snme as the action in a simple voltaic cell , the theory took account of it whatever .
fact , the oxplanation of voltaic action in the latest .
Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
metal or electrolyte , and the metal or electrolyte ( measured A and are not in contact with other conducting substances ) , being identical with \mdash ; ; then the toval electromotive force of closed heterogeneous circuit composed of the substances is : \mdash ; The proof of this law is very important , as it is often denied experimental data .
Profesol F. says:\mdash ; ' ' The following of phenomena occur when metals and an electrolyte are placed in tact : .
When a single metal is placed in contact with an a definite difference of potentials is produced between the liquid the metal .
If zinc be plunged in water , the zinc becomes negative , the water positive .
Copper plunged in water also becomes negative , * but much less so than zinc .
2 .
If two metals be in water copper and zinc ) the copper , the zinc , and the water forming galvanic cell , all remain at one potential , and no of is observed on any part of the system It will also , we think , become evident that the natures of metals and of the electrolytes determine the electromotive force voltaic cell , just as the natures of the metals and the distribution temperature determine the electromotive force of a ngemenf , and as the nature of the two metals zinc and copper termines the electromotive force of Sir W. Thomson 's mechanical in which copper fall from a copper funnel through a zinc ductor , in metallic connexion with the copper , into a ) copper vessel .
II .
At the surface of contact of two conducting substances there electromotive force of definite mount which tends to make flow from one of the substances to other .
For instance , at junction of zinc and copper there is an electromotive force of which tends to cause electricity to flow from the copper to the across the unction .
This ceases when the potential of the is volt greater than that of the copper , the difference of of the metals balancing the electromotive force of the junction .
this difference of potential which is measured by the apparatus is described below .
a substance is said to have a ltial than a substance in contact with it , we mean that state has been established in virtue of an electromotive force exists at the iunction of the substances , and that the *Wo found that copper is positive to water , zinc being llegave to water .
Contact of Action .
of contact tends to produce a current of electricity from to the junction .
W. Thomson 's method of measuring the difference of potential metals in contact , which consisted in hanging a needle over two similar plates of different metals , and observdeflexions when it was , first positively and then negarequires , in order to be accurate , all the delicacy of the arrangeand even more complicated contrivances than those employed in quadrant-electrometer .
It will be easily seen that a series of for determining the difference of potentials between pairs of pairs of liquids , and between liquids and metals , could only very greatest difficulty be carried out by a method which the taking to pieces and refitting of a quadrant-electrometel evel.y experiment .
The authol.s ' attention was , therefore , directed devising a method of investigation in which a delicate quadrantwould be employed to measure the difference of two similar metal plates themselves acted 011 inductively by and equidistant plane surfaces of the two substances in contact , difference of potentials between which it was desired to measure .
let and 13 be two insulated brass plates connected with of the electrometer .
Let under and under be the hose diffcrence of potential is to be measured .
and put to and then insulated .
and are to with one now under under A. of the electrometer needle will now give measure of of potential between and The apparatus , means of which our idea eell carried out , a of natural selection , assumed the form the .
( Plate 7 .
) The circular brass pltttcs ttlld ccntims .
diameter , are supported and kept insulated of artificially dried glass stems .
The leaden cups , containin stone moistened with acid , slide in by a bayonetand may be lowered by the handles so as to rest on the when the instrument is not use ; thus access to of the exernal air .
The permanent adjustment for coincidence of the plane surfaces of brass plates is effected by means of wood-screws in each of brass caps ; temporary adjustment for horizontality of the brass is effected by means of a spirit level and three screws to bc very , and that the protecting crin g of is far away the plates .
Let the of induction 01 tv sets of when is a differcncc of potenlial between bc and .
We kuow from the position and shape of the that Let be the of of the insulated brass ) lates A the chstanee from 4 to or to .
Lct be the poteutial of the Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
, which support the wooden frams WPW , and the positions of on the three wooden blocks are fixed by " " hole , slot , and plane of these levelling screws has been removed in the drawing to show lifting arrangement .
and are strips of brass soldered to the plates and connected by means of clips to wires leading to the insulated of the quadrant electrometer , and to the insulated screws , of short-circuit key .
In the drawing we have chosen to arrange the apparatus for mining the electromotive force of contact between a metal and liquid C. is a screw-jack which enables the oblong wooden OS'O ' to be raised to any level , and the table may be turned at any level .
Three levelling screws , working in nuts the table , support the metal plate , and three others , exactly support the porcelain vessel which contains the liquid , so that lpper surfaces of both and are in the same horizontal plane .
binding screw is soldered to the plate ; in the present case it the metal , which makes contact with the liquid ; must been cut from the same sheet as the plate .
When there are face , and the potential of at the beginning of the expel.iment .
and connected to earth , the chal.ge on and its elect .
is being the of the needle .
The charge on and its quadrants is tfter reversal , if has a potential and , therefore a potential , the charge and its quadrants is the charge on and its quadrants is lere V and are the potentials of and respectively .
Equating the tive charges before and after leversal , and subtracting , 1 } get . . .
( 1 ) might neglect the change of capacity of the quadrants , should have . . . .
( 2 ) so that varies as .
Now our experiments show this to be the case , and consequently ( 2 ) correct value of Contact oltaic Action .
of liquid , contact is made between the liquids by of cotton wick in one of the liquids and .
its ends to dip the liquid surfaces .
The brass rods , insulated where they pass } en by glass tubes and bone washers , are gauges hich may be or raised until their ends are at fixed distances below the level plates and .
By the reflections of these ends at the SUl'faces liquids or plates , we can judge of the position of the level surand .
The vooden pegs and , and a slot in the at , enable a reversal of and to be with accurac rapidity .
The parts of the frame WW'W''/ in view of the plntes nre with tin plates or till foil , connected with the outside of the A tin plate door , of which the seen at up a metal box the whole apparatus , .
the short , circuit key , and connecting wires .
This box is in connexion with the outside of the electrometer .
The of the short-circuit key is kept connected with this cover a hole in which it may be vithdrawn from its bed to insulate plates .
We shall now describe a complete opel.ation , to the 0force of contact between a metal and } liquid , for oxample .
the permanent adiustments to have been made , and that the and are quite .
The plate is cleaned and laid on levelling ; the porcelain dish containing the liquid is the levelling screws .
By turning and the ' screws moving in its slot ) , and by the use of a gauge .
of which the represents the distance determined upon for and and , we boet the surfaces into their proper reIative positions .
The rod is now lowered until its end its reflection at the surof seem to meet , and it is then made fast .
Before the insulation of the glass rods , the permanence of the zero the electrometer , and the permanence of position of the needle the drants al.e insulated , are ascertained .
The strip hich quite is now bent to dip into the liquid , and the cover -1I is Insulate by means of the key , and take the zero .
, lift cover , lower the table and reverse and ; raise the table the end of and its reflection in the surface of the liquid ncnrly the cover and a reading .
short-circuit the insulate , and proceed to take a new .
Alternate are on opposite sides of the zero .
We found that lvhen slight changes occur in the dry.ness of the air the electrometer , there are in the zero hich nre to slight traces of moisture remaining on the suspension fibres needle .
It is also to be remarked that when the quadrants of the Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
electrometer are insulated from one another , any slight change in of the instrument causes a motion of the needle .
The hand must be trained to insulate the plates from one After three months ' practice our insulations are so perfect that there seldom even a tremor on removing the plug , whereas in the of our experiments we often had in succession ten bad attempts insulation .
A good insulation depends on the plug leaving both of its seat simuItaneously .
This key gave better results than any the other arrangements at our disposa ] .
We at first thought , from ccnsidering the .
change of capacity in quadrants ( as the needle moved ) , that our measnrements would more ccurate when very small .
This is not the case , but it led us try a method of observation which may suggest itself .
We tffi spot of light to zero in every experiment by acting inductively the insulated plates and by means of small plates placed charged to a measurable difference of potential .
We employ this method modified at some future time .
The susI)ension fibres of the needle were tolerably near one the trap-door gauge was adjusted for as great a charge as it collvenient to give to the jar , and as it was nearly unstable it extremely small of charge .
The relative positions of mirror , the lamp , lens , and scale*are shown in the lower part of the Plate .
The lens forms a virtual image of the wire of lamp-slit at 60 centims. from the mirror , and the scale , which metres from the eIectrometer , receives the image formed by mirror .
We had supposed that no better definition of slit be obtained by the use of a lens , but in reality great benefit was from its use , our readings being much mol.e accurate than they have been had the lamp-slit , without the lens , been put at 60 the mirror .
We consider that our readings ( as far as the meter itseIf is concerned ) are accurate to the one of a volt .
IIT .
To find the relative values of deflections of the ometer two brass plates were placed under and at the distance of We were able to give to the plates a difference of potentials the omotive force of a Daniell , or to any fraction of this .
is made by means of a key without any actual changes in the plates .
* Not represented the Plate . .
W. E. Aylton and John Perry .
It is to be observed that although there was a motion of the elecfrometer needle when the quadrants were insulated ( shown by the great diRerence betweon every two successive readings ) , still the observations are sufficiently consistent , and when taken two by two thoey show that polarization has the effect of decreasing the readings .
Taking tho means of every two succesve readings we have in the sulphate , , and again , after the zinc is cleaned , .
In the acid this effect is even more marked , the deflecfions rapidly to , and from to .
Thus we see tion in the ordinary sense , far from producing a diffcrcnce of poontials betwcen zinc and copper joined by a liquid , in reality tends to reduce the difference of potentials th already existed between them .
The electromoter now began to show exisbencc of two faults , imperfect contact betwoen the electrodes and the quadrants , and a discharge from needle to the ) .
The instrument , therefore , taken to pieces , and the first fault rectified by the addition of contact springs additi to the little wcights employed ) between electrodes and quadrants , and the second by the ncedle and quadrants being cleaned .
In obscrvations made during the last four months on the COllstancv ' electromotive force of cells , we found that Latimer cell ested by an electrometer ( kcpt in a perfectly constant state ) tltered very little when its poles were kcpt insulated .
The electrolnotive force of this cell is known to ) voIts , and we have used as a to determine the produced in in the positions of the quadrants .
hen we compnred the romotive f of coJltact of and copper with the constant cell , it was found in every case to be volt at the temperatul'e of C. The deflections in the last two tables bc reduced to volts if we knew the contact electromotive { orce of zinc and C. Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Pcrry .
The changes which occur in the electromotive force of a cell difficult to .
They may be due to impurities in the metals , air condcnsed at metallic surfaces , to air and other gases dissolved the liquid , \amp ; c. They seem to be quite arbitrary , and they are very authors have begun an investigation ing the causes of these peculiar effects .
The discrepaucies observable in the following comparisons may be due to the mallness of the electromotive forccs of contact were measured separately , but they arc in some part due to the plained changes which occur in the electromotive force of a ccll .
, and represent the coppcr , zinc , and liquid respectively simple cell ; let and L2 be the in contact with the and the liquid in contact with the zinc of a Daniell 's cell ; let the electromotive force of contact of and , and let be with .
Taking the five cells of Table XI , and that electromotive force of a contact of two substances as it exists in a is equal to its romotive force when measured in ur apparatus , get the following results:\mdash ; T. Daniell with pure saturated copper sulphate and nearly pure saturated zinc sulphate .
of Cell .
to 1 increasing slowly .
II .
Danicll with distilled water and pure saturated copper sulphate .
III .
Daniell with very dilute zinc sulphate and slightly impure satnrated copper sulphate . .
Simple cell , nearly snturated zinc sulphate . .
Simple cell , distilled In case the sum of the arate c electromotive is so nearly cqual to the observed maximum electromotive force Contact Theory ction .
that we ve good reason for believing that the electromotive of contact of any two substances is constant whatever other submay be in the circuit .
At the time it becomes evident there cannot be a very great difference of potential between a or liquid surface and the air in contact with it .
That the eIectromotive forces of a zinc suJphate cell and of a water are so nearly seems to be rather accidental .
Zinc sulphate to zinc and is less positive copper , contact electroforceH having to be subtracted from one another ; whereas is not so positive to zinc but is ative to copper , the contact forces being therefore added ether .
In any complete circuit ( receiving no energy from withcomposed of the substances , the total electromotive is equal to .
Now when no changes are in the circuit such as will produce a supply of energy , we from law of conservation of energy that this total electroforce is nothing .
In a compound metallic circuit , which is of the same temperature , this condition is satisfied .
But not satisfied if the temperature varies in the circuit , and we find that the total electromotive force is no longer its amount on the nature of the metals and on the of temperature .
Again , we find that even when all parts the circuit are at the same temperature , and one or more of the are liquid or solid electrolytic conductors , the sum of force of contact is not ltothing , its amount on the nature of the supply of energy which exists in the and therefore on the chemical natures of the electrolytes and the metals in contact the electrolytes .
In fact , the electroforce of a voltaic arrangement depends on the chemical natures metals and of the electrolytes .
PART II .
" " On a Metallic Voltaic Cell , and on Electrolytes of Great Resistance When any two pure substances A and are placed in with one ano , the electromotive force of contact cLarges to a certain differonce of potentials which is numerically equal , and these charges of electricity repref ; ent a amount of of which the equivalent is a definite mount of action .
the substnnces pure there is no othel electromove force that distnrb this hment of charge .
lt is ction hich m occur at the of is ver Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
little diminished by this charging , and we have no right to say the total amount of possible chemical action at the contact of metallic surfaces is simply equivalent to the energy of the When A and are solid their rigidity limits the possible amount chemical action ; but even when they are both metals if one is a the total amount may be very considerable .
With metals there limit by the want of mobility of { he alloy , and when liqmd is not metallic there is a limit produced by the compound insoluble , and so preventing free contact .
After the charges established the electromotive force of confact is exactly balanced , there is no further action of any kind .
If , however , A or be a conductor , this establishment of charge may take a consi ( lerable In any case there can only bc an exceedingly small amount of action between any two pure substances , as for ] , pure zinc pure sulphuric acid .
If , and be any three substances insulated from other A and being each contact with , but not in contact with other , the electromotive forces of contact and charge the bodies in such a way that the difference of between A and is equal and opposite to , and the diiference of potentials between and is equal and opposite to .
The energy required to produce this of the bodies is due to chemical action at the places of contact .
After the three bodios are so charged there cannot be any further chemical action , and the total amount of possible chemical at these places of contact is very little diminished by charging .
facie we cannot compare the present ifference of between A and with the eIectromotive force of contact that exist between A and were they brought together .
The establishment of the above differences of potential takes a or longer time , as the bodies are more or less conducting .
If now we imagine A and to be brought into contact , as we not know the value of , we nnot prcdict the amount of produced in the of , and ; but we may that some disturbance is produced , that is , current of electricity in the circuit .
We can also say that after the possible chemical at the various juncbions is austed , as well as the potential to bringing A and in contact , then , if the the circuit is everywhere the , there can be no further since there is no further supI ) of energy .
It known that in a compound solid metallic circuit , which is where at the same temperature , there is no continuous chemical at the junctions , and consequently by the law of conservation energy there cannot be a continuous current .
Hence it has been 1878 .
] Contact of foltaic Go assume that if of our second example are metals , solid or liquid , the difference of potentials between A and just brought into contact is equal to .
Now in the case of one of the metals , , being a liquid , we ve by the experiment described furthcr on shown this assumption to be untrue ; and we believe that evell when the three metals are all solid , if one or more of them were athe noncondncting , and if the surfaces of contact , there old be ined a result similar to that which we have obtained with solid electrolytes of high resistance .
In case of three ) solid metals of high conductivity , the experiment would be very difficuIt , if not impossible , to perform to the previous tlstion of the possible chemical action through want of perfect of A nnd from all substances other than before being themselves put contact .
The experiments now about to be described , well as those given in our last paper , lead us to the conclusion that in all A and brought into contact there be a disturbance , some cases , no doubt , only momentary , the previous charge .es of and C. A Cefl .
It may be known that when rods of zinc and copper are plnced in mercury and connected with an electrometer no chal.ge is observed .
If known , this may have been regarded as a crucial test of the truth of the common theory of compound metallic circuits .
Whether the zinc and copper are in contact outside the merculT or not , mation of zinc appears to proceed at the same rate .
Now , it seemed to us that in this case the impurities and conductivity of the zinc } the great liquidity of the , and the close proximity of eign particles to pure metal , caused the amalgamation to be produced by action alone , so that the supply of chemical for the production of a current from the zinc to copper was exceedingly small ; and we no doubt at low tempcraturcs , when the loses its liquidit such fill $lt meant becomes a simple voltaic cell .
It was for us to instead of zinc a metal of the is llcRlly solid at or turcs .
On we found thnt a on the first trial we a result ve of the ave theory .
Srrips of tinum and to the electrodes of electrometer , dipped into perlmps , impurc from the )resellCC of other ) which had CYiously -nshed v-ith distilled , nnd dried .
There ddcn 1 deflcction , moullt of very much , but which was vays csidcrnble and on the same side of the zcro .
On succesve reversals of the cter Contact Theory of oltaic Action .
from the same piece of metial ; is bent upwards and passes an orifice in the bath .
The wire from 1 ) to the insulated of the electrometer is protected by a wide tube of metal ; tube , the outside of the electrometer , and the ulllnsulated electrodc connected with B. A double door not shown in the the inside of the bath .
HGH is a woodell supporb which m withdrawn from the bath .
and thermometers of whi the are near the surface of the paraffin .
The difficulty of detcrminexactly the kmperature of the paraffin wax arose tl ; and the use of a ermometer , horizontally underneath , was found to add to the of the temperature leadings .
To obtain continuous time of the electrometer , let the of the cross fibres of our lamp slit formed by the fnll horizontal wooden roller covered with paper .
roller was long , and 13 celltims .
in diameter .
A clock ( { ) uses the ollet make a revolution in two minutes .
able to change rate of this roller to one revolution in 7 utcs , can slightly vary the rate by altering the of the pendulum .
of the cross is easily followed in its motion on the by a pencil .
When the paper is cut off ) ) ) ] to roller-axis it ibits the time obscrvations a form woll for calculation .
The clock bein stopped and a scalc Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
to the roller , readings may bo made in the ordinary way .
and clock costs very little , and form a valuable addition flecting galvanometer or electrometer .
Wax .
The plate A zinc and connected with the insulated meter-electrode , and the paraffin bein solid between the two we first short-circuited the arrangement to get then insulated allowed the electromotive force of the parafffin cell to charge and the electrometer quadrants in connexion with it .
A detailed account of our experiments on conductivity is given further on .
It is sufficent here to state that at low temperatures the conductivity of pal'affin wax is exceedingly small , the conductivity imeases to the melting point , the increase being extremely rapid melting , and there eems to be a ular increase during the melted state .
Hence in the experiments with the zinc plate at Iow temperatures , the resistance is so great that although there is a slight charging of the quadrants to eJectromotive force , this is somewhat disguised by defects of the electrometer .
In fact , at low temperatures , it is impossible to measure the electromotive force of this simple cell , although the existence of an electromotive force is quite evident , but when the conductivity becomes sufficiently great , and this occurs long before there is of melting on the upper surface of the paraffin , { he charge reaches a maximum with sufficient rapidity for its accurate measurement .
At a few rees above the melting point the maximum established itself at once , and however often the plates were short-circuited for the purpose of taking the zero , the maximum charge was found to be approximately the same , and to correspond with an electromotive force of volt when least , and volt when greatest : it was also not much affected by change of temperature .
To these measurements we used as a standard a Latimer Clark 's constant cell , ae When the plates are charged to their maximu1n difference of potentials there is electric equilibrium , and no further current tencts to pass .
the arrangement , the electromotive force being balanced .
If then represents this ximum cbarge , and if is the charge at a inue ( , and the charge at the time , then\mdash ; Jllllltiplied by a constant depending on the electric capacity of the arrangement presents the conductivity .
As the measurement of rticular temperature is rather coarse , we cannot readily compare our last ] we gave as correct measurement of the electroforce of contact of zinc and copper .
S78 .
Contact Theory of Action .
conductivity with the conductivity for that temperature which have otherwise determined , but we infer from the curve that the formula gives a result twice or three times as grcat as the true this , however , might have been expected from our of the phenomena of absorption in dielectrics .
Sir W. Thomson , in the\ldquo ; Proceedings of the Royal Society\ldquo ; for June 0th , 1875 , describes an experiment in plates of zinc and copper , contact with the two sides of a plate of lass , form a voltaic cell .
glass was sufficiently heated to become conducting there evident charging of the plates .
* In the glass cell the maximum became less an : less after every , whereas in the cell the maximum charge is constant .
In the one case all the of the circuit were solid , the glass being very far indeed from point , so that the amount of possible chemical a , ction at junctions ) small , and after every successive was a less and less supply until the arrangement was approacha state which had hitherto been supposed to be peculiar to a commetallic circuit ; whereas our paraffin possessed mobility , and amount of possible chemical action at the surfaces of contact ; infinite in comparison with the currents the It is stated above thal when any two pnre substances otherwise are brought into contact with one another , the amount of action must be practically , but , as pure subdo not exist , when two bodies are brought into contact ] complete circmts formed by three or more diffel'ent substances , and currents are produced until the possible chemical actions at the surfaces of contact are exhausted .
Now if one or more of these ) nces in such elementary circuits are non-conductors , this exhaustion can only proceed very slowly , and if the substances at the surfaces of contact immobility , the total amount of possible chemical action will be necessarily small .
Hence we see that the amount of chemical action between bodies depends upon their conductivity and mobility , as well as on the electromotive forces of contact , and as the chemical action equivalent to the energy of ] charges of city is quite lncapable of dotected by the methods of lysis , and as the charges are easily measurable with am elect , rometer , have , if our theory be correct , in electrical measurement a method of cal analysis which is infinitely more sensitive thnn chemical method .
Thus it is evident in our ffin cell tbere is chemical action , but our colleague , Dr. Divers , has found 110 of inc in lish parafiin which came nized lton , nor in paraffin oil heated to a temperature of C. , in a of the ) ' oase of condnctivity of with tcmperature in of the Royal Society\ldquo ; .
the .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
zinc vessei for many hours .
In fact in chemical analysis , which is equivalent to current is measured by a method very much sensitive than if the measurementwere made by the best whereas a current which is not observable with the best may be measured accurately with the electrometer .
It is that if we assume an electromotive force of contact tween any two substances , there must be possible chemical between these two substances , and this chemical action can of only exist at the places of contact .
It may proceed slowly through want of conductivity , and the amount possible in any given case may be very small because of want of mobility of either of the substances in contact , or of want of mobility of the compound formed by the action .
Th.us it well known that the electromotive force of contact of glass and other substances is often very considerable , and that the chemical action between glass and most other substances is very smaIL This is due to want of of the glass , but when glass becomes hea , its conductivity much increases , and it then becomes capable of acting ] on many substances .
When in the melted state it is acted on chemically by the majority of substances .
It is possible that this increase of chemical activity ing a rise of tempera)ture is much more due to increased conductivity than to change of electromotive force of contact .
Lead glass which insulates so badly , is comparatively easily acted by chemicals .
Chemical action is always slow unless the substances are conductors , and we find that nearly all the substances which chemists find it unnecessary to dissolve before applying conductors .
In some cases previous solution may be also required for the mere purpose of producing mobility at the surfaces of contact .
To expedite chemical action , solutions are stirred together ; this increases the of contact and ninishes resistance as well as rapidly bringing into contact fresh portions previously unacted on .
The alkaline earths in the solid stabe are very } ) conductors , but when melted they are comparatively good conductors , and there is no doubt that we have here an explanation of the fact that the bottoms come out of platinum crucibles containing melted alkaline earths .
We might expect that in those eases in which melted metals have a considerable electromotive force of contact , they would combine to form alloys with great rapidity , on account of their great conductivity and sufficient mobility to continue chemical combination .
The $reat conductivity of mercury , its mobility and the mobility of the compounds which it forms with other metals , enables it to entel rapidly into combination with those motals which it has a great force of contact .
And it is probable that the eleetrorcrotive force of contact of mercury iron or with steel is exceedsmall , or that the is a solid except at very tem1878 .
] Contact of Cold glass is acted on by hydrofluoric acid , and this is on account of the great electromotive force and on account of silicon tetrafluoride formed by the combination being volatile , therefore , great mobility .
Hitherto chenlists employed the two ideas of chemical affinity and the amount of action , but we have shown that these ideas are impliiied regarded as electromotive force of contact and currents of To connect the two ideas we have a third , the electrical law of Ohm becomes the chemical law\mdash ; the action equals the of } of each of is au electrornotive force divided a Gutta-Percha .
The metallic plates of the last experiment were carefully cleaned , the paraffin wax replaced by a sheet of gutta-percha , ' washed with soap and water , ordinary water , alcohol , and hot distilled water , and thoroughly dried .
The A of clean zinc as before .
Our experiments on the collof gutta-percha , described further on , show that it increases the temperature , not only at the low temperature at which it been , but also after it has become plastic At the lowest temperature at which we examined the ement was a decided charging of the plates , but it lvas so slow that ) the measurement of the minimum electl.omotive force volt as too smftll , for a careful exftmination of the defects of the electrometer showed that lndcr these nces measurement be too small .
At highcl temperatures maximum was established with much pidity .
On each day , some tinlc after the commencement of expcriment for that day , the electromotive force ving ) time suddenly , and then ined nenrly constnllt : its value .
This seetned at to be due to tho been short-circuited for vals o loul or more , but afterwards found that it hen plates were only short- circuited for a few scconds to gct to .
AIso , it did llot secm to occur at a icular t ; on occasion rise happened at ) C. , and on lothe at about C. the first of the lectrolnove f-olt , and volt , very ) volt .
sccolld day tho lo volt the and ) volt .
arc sure , , that the ductivity o to any due to tho the Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
As in the case of paraffin , the conductivity calculated from the time , whilst the zinc and copper plates were establishing their , is greater than the conductivity measured independently by two copper plates charged with a battery for about five minutes and then kept insulated .
liibonite .
Between the zinc and copper plates was placed an ebonite sheet , having an average thickness of millim. It was chemically clean , and there was no surface conduction at even low temperatures .
We found , as in the previous cases , that there was evidence of an electromotive force , but the charging proceeded very slowly until about C. , when the conductivity had greatly increased .
During thirtyfive minutes the temperature steadily increased to C. , and as there was no indication of a maximum charge , we let it increase without short-circuiting during this thirty-five minutes , at the end of which time the deflcction indicated an electromotive orce of 3 volts .
After short-circuiting bhe charge again established itseIf , but it did not increase as rapidly as it had done at first at the lower temperature , although from our independent experiments we know that the conductivity is greater at higher temperatures .
Precautions have been aken to avoid any of the ebonite plates during the experi ; for certain preliminary observations showed that such sliding would produce charges of electricity which would mask mere voltaic results .
From the mathematical expressions for conductivity and from our experimental determinations of conductivity at any given temperature , we endeavoured , by calculation , to discover whether the first set of time readings indicated an approach to a maximtlm , but we obtained results ; the maximum electromotive force ; calculated varying from 3 to 12 volts .
After the experiments the zinc plate was found to be only slightly dulled in its polish and not coloured , neither did the copper plate appear much in appearance , but a lend weight which had been laid on the zinc to keep it in close contact with the ebonite was found to be quite red .
It is evident , herefore , that this arrangement had nothing in common with an ordinary simple cell , the great of the plates due to a decomposition of the ebonite by heat .
In November , 1875 , we endeavoured to find the eIectromove of a simple ccll formed by placing a sheet of india-lubbcl containing sulphur betwcen zinc and coppcr plates , and we then obtained resuIts to those which have just been described for ebonite .
During the ation , we expected to obtain the same results , since we used the piece of india-rubber which had previously been Contact of oltaic Contrary to our expectations , however , there appeared to no further decomposition of the india-rubber by heat , and results to those previously obtained with the paraffin wax were met Probably , therefore , all the sulphur could easily be had been expelled by the previous .
At about C. , conductivity was sufficient to enable us to measure , with some the electromotive force , which we found to be volt ; somewhat as in the case of the gutta-percha , between and C. , the eIectromotive force increased to volt .
This did not appear to be as sudden as in the case of gutta-percha , as before , the electromotive force was fairly constant on each side this place of changing .
Shell-Lac .
An extremely thin sheet of shell-lac was placed between plates of and copper , as in ) experiments .
At low tempera- there was evidently an force , which , at C. , 1Y0 able to measure , as the conductivity was sufficie1ltly reat .
From this temperature vards there was practicnlly no .
In the electromotive force was constant and equal to volts .
At higher than C. , the arrangement blished its after short-circuiting with the rapidity of an ordinary liquid cell .
Resistances of the above tes .
It has been usual for tclegraph ineers to measure the resistance of gutta-percha , india-rubber , \amp ; c after a current has been passing through the material for one or for not more minutes .
Now , although this may be a very valuable tcst of a } ) cable , since the amount of apparent loss , through wftnt of tion during the small period of charge , is one of elements the received current , still since this loss is due to two causes , in and true conductivity , and since the former is at first so very great compared with the latter , the real resistance only be rtained after the current has been on for a length of time .
The pracIical time of charging necessary to enable the currcnt to be a true measure of the conductivity seems to be less at higher temperatures , and in our experiments we have endeavoured to approximote to the eliminntion 0 soaking in .
In November , 1875 , we made a great number of time observations the diflerence of potentials of two copper plates immcrsed paraffinand kept asunder by three small pieces of lass , centim. the upper plate been ch to a and the lower plate kept in connexion with carth .
} Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
found that the conductivity increased with temperature , the being very rapid near bhe melting point , at which place , as we used auxiliary condenser , the rate of loss of charge was very high .
sure the conductivity of melted paraffin , we employed a delicate reflecting astatic galvanometer of 20,000 ohms resistance ; one Daniell 's cell , through a resistance of 120 rohms , gave a deflec .
tion of divisions on an ordinary scale,.at about a metre distance .
Ths current from a battery having a measured electromotive 47 times that of our standard Daniell passed through the paraffin and the galvanometer .
Full precautions were taken to avoid all leak .
except through the , the deflection of the galvanometer needle due to instrumental leakage alone being quite imperceptib16 .
The eters did not truly the temperature of ths paraffin , being too high when the apparatus was , and too low when it was cooling ; but as the cooling was very slow , the results which are given in following table obtained during cooling , and which , when plotted , give the curve JK ( fig. 1 , p. 231 ) , may be regarded as being fairly correct , for the observations seem to be all very consistent with one another .
The area of the upper plate was square centims. , and hence if is the specific resistance in ohms per .
centim. of paraffin , and if is the deflection on the galvanometer scale , .
In the above table we have given only every fifth observation .
The cllrve ML has for -ordinates the temperature and galvanometer deflection as the temperature increased .
The points respond respectively with the temperatures C. In this and in the other curves we have employed such scales as seemed to us most convenient .
In every case we give the true ordinates of some points , and from these the scale may be easily mined .
Ordinates measured parallel to the line OX represent perature , the temperature increasing towards O. Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
We were unable to obtain galvanometer and electrometer the same temperature , since the galvanometer did not give at low temperatures ; and as we had not at this time designed the roller described above , and as no auxiliary condenser was used the electrometer , the loss of charge was too rapid at high to make accurate time observations .
The oil-bath used in November , being small and otherwise venient , we proceeded in May of this year with the investigation , using the apparatus described above .
At low temperatures time ob .
servations of loss of charge were taken on a fixed scale .
Near the melting point time observations were taken on the roller in motion , and at higher temperatures , one minal of an auxiliary condenser of one-third microfarad capacity and excellent insulation was attached to the plate , the other terminal of the condenser being connected with B. Four Daniell 's cells were used to charge A. At C. , the temperature of the room , A experienced no loss of charge in ten minutes whether or not the condenser was attached .
A number of preliminary experiments showed as before that there was a great increase of conductivity at melting .
For instance , on May 15th , when the temperature was rising , the paraffin appeared to be solid at C. , and it appeared to be liquid at C. , and between these two temperatures we obtained the following results , being measured in minutes always .
These resuIts cannot be compared directly with those obtained with the galvanometer , because in the former case was from a high temperature , C. , whereas in this the temperature was only raised to , and is well known when paraffin is cooled from a high temperature , it will remain 1878 .
] Contact of Voltaic Action .
at temperatures at which it would be solid were it being gradually heated from a low temperature .
Curvo AB , May 16th , gives the relative conductivities when the paraffin was from C. to C. At the paraffin secmed to be solid , and it did not appear to be mcIted at its upper surface , even for some time afterwards , when the thermometers indicated C. But at C. it was covered with white eruptions .
With the colldenser , May 16th , we obtained the following tests .
As we did not employ the roller the conductivities deduced from detached readings are ofteTt inconsistent , and yet each of thess conductivities deduced from a number of observations , in some cases from twenty .
This shows the difficulty of making eye observations , for when using the time and tracing on it with a pencil the path of the image of the cross .
fibres , no such inconsistences were met with .
These results may be compared with the galvanometer results , because in both cases the temperature was from much above .
Considcring the great difficulty of .
the temperature , the recment of these results with the results may be regarded as very satisfactory .
May 20th .
Time roller used for the first time , quick motion oltly employed , that is , one revoIution two minutcs .
} ' kept connected with the plates for intel.vals of tinlc frolll to ten minutes before plabe A was insulated .
rollcl are in themselves extremely intercsting , but we think to them the present paper would be supelfluous .
The cve the values of without condenser from C. to C. ; the coContact Theory of Voltaic ction .
formulae , which have been employed in values given above .
condenser , condenser , , as usual measured in utes .
The changes which occur in the conductivity of paraffin when meIts are best seen in the curve AB .
It is probable that the cve to represents the tion of AB to a differcnt scalc , and have found that the furthcr continuation beyond the is by the curve from to , which is drawn to a difscale .
All the loss of charge observations are combined in the curve GC 1 ) , and it is quite cvident that there is a decidetl want of uity i curve .
It is probable that paraffin follows the ) it nears the melting point : but aftor the incrcase of } ductivity would seem to be proportioned to the increase of The curve CD may be a line , but the gnlvnnometer results give a curve is decidedly concave upwal'ds ; it is still , howevcr , a very flat curve .
Solid paraffin during the four degrees before ] ting tltcrs i specific istance per cubic centimetre from to megohms .
For lowest temperaturc at which it can bc said to be melted , its specific resistance seems fo be about megohms , and C. , to bc pretty rately 1 ) ohms .
Gutta-Pc ) The cffect of beat on the conductivity of st ldied b noting the loss of chargc of two copper plates scparated by a shcet of gutta-percha centim. thick .
The conductivity at ordinary temperatures was sufficiently grcat for the employment of a conThe values of , are , -ordinates of points , \amp ; c. , . .
of the ving table .
, the specific resist por cubic megoLms has been calculated from the :\mdash ; .
plastic condition of the the indicated itself in the curve } and P. VOL. XXVII .
If we may assume from }vards in temperature the resistance of follows the well-known logarithmic ] , we find at C. the specific resistance per cubic centimetre is ohms , showing that for a sheet the ) ercha is fairly good .
In determining the ctivity of ebonitc , we at first proceeded as SCribed above , a pair of copper plates ; but we found thnt the of decreasing through conductivity incrc ently definitely .
On the copper plates by sheets of we obtained consistent results , but this may have been due to the sulphur that could easily be libcrated by heat having been iven ont in the previous heating .
QR is the the conductivity , or there , and the tempcrature .
This curve is ncarly C. to C. , our highest temperature .
No rapid in conductivity is anywhere perceptible .
As ve could not employ the auxiliary condenser in conscquencc of Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and John Perry .
meant , which was found to be microfarad .
The area of of the platinum plates , between which the india-rubber was was square centims. The thickness of the india-rubber centim. , so that the calculated specific inductive capacity .
This seems too large ; but an error , if there be one , in the determination of the capacity would have made the calculated resistance too small , whereas the resistance is much higher than that hitherto obtained with any of the forms of india-rubber experimented on by icians .
We found that the capacity of the electrometer quadrants was ectable in these , and in the ebonite observations .
We give the temperature and the correspoading values of , and of in megohms for the points of the curve ST .
II .
" " On the Viscosity of Dielectrics No. I. By W. E. and JOHN PERRY , Professors the Imperial College of gineering , Tokio , Japan .
Communicated by Profcsso ] W. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Reccived October 2 , 1877 .
It is well known that india-rubber has a greater specific and a less speciiic inductive capacity than gutta-percha .
Now popular explanation of this might be given as follows :Imagine tion of the india-rubber in an india-rubber replaced by metallic or other conducting substance either in a single piece or in form of grains scattered throughout the mass of the dielectric , the resistance of the condenser will be diminished while its will be increased .
As more and more metal is introduced into dielectric the capacity will become greater and greater , so that at if all the india-rubber be replaced by metal , we ought to consider a condenser as having an extremely great capacity , on of the conduction it would be impossible to experimentally the charge .
If the above consideration , which of course really to a dielectric of heterogeneous constitution , be also applicable different homogeneous dielectrics , then we might expect to find for all dielcctrics the specific inductive capacity diminishes as specific resistance increases .
Now the we have on concerning specific resistances enable us to in case of several well-known dieJectrics this is really so , as be seen from oJlowing table :

