\#187 ; 5fj .
m accelg cast ; en\#187 ; n r \#171 ; Of sorefe ' lot ( if i i Q| :i|i4 2%S .t'ld A Study of the Forms assumed by Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid in Various Coagulating Solutions .
By Emil Hatschek .
( Communicated by Prof. D'Arcy Thompson , F.R.S. Received October 29 , 1918 .
) The investigation to be described in the present paper was begun with the object of testing experimentally some suggestions made by Prof. D'Arcy Thompson in a letter addressed to " Nature , " published in the issue of August 8 , and in private correspondence with the author .
The substance of these suggestions is that many organic forms show symmetries corresponding closely to those of vibrating bodies of similar shape , and that many others recall very strikingly the shapes exhibited transitorily by splashes and by vortices .
In the usual methods of producing vortices\#151 ; causing drops of a coloured liquid to fall , * or jets of it to emerge , + into another with which it is completely miscible\#151 ; the various stages of the phenomenon succeed one another with great rapidity , so that either unusually acute observation , or instantaneous illumination and photography , is required to isolate any particular one .
Even apart from this difficulty the procedure has a serious defect when viewed as a method of imitating organic forms , inasmuch as organisms cannot possibly consist of liquid alone , but are either colloidal solutions enclosed in membranes , or possess the physical properties of gels .
It appeared to the author that it would be possible to obtain permanently various stages of the vortex on the one hand , and on the other to approach much more closely to Nature in respect of secondary features of possible importance , by using a gelatinising sol a suitably coloured gelatin sol ) , and producing with it drops or vortices in one of the numerous solutions which promote the setting of gelatin sols or cause hardening of gelatin gels .
Apart from the possibility of arresting the vortex at any given stage by a suitable choice of solution and concentrations , this procedure seemed to promise results not obtainable even transitorily with liquids alone , viz. , shrinkage or imbibition , 'and consequent modifications of the smooth surfaces of revolution presented by the primary vortex .
It may be said in anticipation that all these expectations were fully realised as the experimental technique was gradually perfected .
* J. J. Thomson and Newall , " On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops Falling into Liquids , and some Allied Phenomena , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 39 , p. 417 ( 1885 ) .
t A very complete bibliography of experimental arrangements in Winkelmann 's 'Handb .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 1 , p. 1069 and seq. ( 1908 ) .
'I Mr. E. Hatschek .
Forms assumed by In all the experiments of the series to be described gelatin sol was allowed to drop into the coagulating solution through the air , from an orifice held at various distances up to about 15 mm. above the surface .
It became evident at once that the density of the solution had to be regulated , within very narrow limits , in accordance with the concentration of the gelatin sol employed and the vortex form which it was desired to retain permanently .
To obtain a definite , symmetrical , and permanent configuration , it is essential that the whole body of gel should remain at rest , at least momentarily , when it had reached the desired shape , if it continues to sink , further deformation occurs , while , if it rises , it eventually reaches the surface and is flattened against the latter .
In practice this means an adjustment of the density to units of the third decimal place .
Since it is necessary that gelation should be complete at that stage , it follows that the solution , when of the required density , should be a sufficiently energetic coagulant to accomplish this result .
The most suitable salt was found to be aluminium sulphate in solutions of density T026 to 1'035 for gelatin sols ranging from 10 to 14 percent .
Ferrous sulphate stands next , but the solutions deteriorate more rapidly than do those of aluminium sulphate , and have to be acidified to an extent which causes complications .
The temperature of the gelatin sol at the moment of use is of considerable importance , as affecting not only its density , but also , and to a much greater extent , its viscosity and setting velocity .
The temperature of the solution also affects the results in a highly complicated manner .
The density of the solution for a given gelatin sol is fixed and , to keep this constant , the concentration at higher temperature must be higher than at lower temperature .
Accordingly , the specific effect of whatever solute is used to obtain the required density will be more marked at higher temperature , by reason of the direct effect of temperature , of the further effect of increased concentration consequent thereon , and lastly , by reason of the lengthening of the whole process , while the sol gradually cools down from the higher temperature to its temperature of gelation .
With falling temperature , the mere cooling effect of the solution will become more pronounced and the specific effect of the solute less so .
While so much can be said d , the profound difference in the forms obtained within the narrow range of about 4 ' , between 19 ' and 15 ' , is still surprising .
The results produced by dropping a gelatin sol , made by dissolving in the usual manner 14 grm. of gelatin in 100 c.c. of water , into aluminium sulphate solution or a mixed solution of aluminium and ferrous sulphate , exhibit practically all the forms which can be obtained without any additions to the gelatin sol , and will therefore be described first .
I Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid .
305 If the density of the solution is practically that of the gelatin sol , at the temperature at which the latter is used , and the sol is run out of an orifice about 4 mm. diameter held clftse above the surface of the solution , the familiar forms of the " hanging drop " * can be obtained in great perfection .
They differ , however , from the similar forms assumed by liquid drops in one significant particular .
The outline of the top surface , which rests in the surface of the solution , is not circular , but crenated or stellate , owing to shrinkage , and the crenated cross-section extends a greater or lesser distance down the neck of the drop , so that a number of meridional corrugations or ribs are formed .
This feature can be greatly accentuated , either by slightly reducing the density of the solution or by running in the sol more rapidly , so that the weight of the drop increases quickly before the sol has time to set completely .
The length of the neck can thus be increased very considerably , while at the same time shrinkage becomes more pronounced ; the cross-section is star- or cross-shaped , while , in extreme cases , the drop may hang at the end of a long and delicate flat band .
At the same time , shrinkage at different distances from the centre is likewise not uniform , so that the ribs or the single band become crinkled , showing in some instances a very striking resemblance to the " undulating membrane " found on numerous organisms .
Typical specimens of the various forms obtained by the procedure just described are shown to scale , in orthogonal projection and slightly diagram-matically , in fig. 1 .
If single drops of the same gelatine sol ( to be called a 14 per cent , sol for the sake of brevity ) , at temperatures between 25 ' and 30 ' , are dropped into a solution of aluminium sulphate , or of equal parts of aluminium and ferrous sulphate , having a density of 1-030 to 1-032 at 18 ' to 18-5 ' , a small portion of the drop adheres to the surface , and the rest develops a vortex which attains its final shape and comes to rest at 5 to 12 mm. below the surface .
The general shape is that of the well-known vortex " mushroom , " which is seen as a transitory stage when a coloured liquid drops into another with which it is miscible , but there are very striking differences .
The whole form is no longer a simple surface of revolution , but exhibits radial ribs , which sometimes are confined to the bell or disc , and sometimes run up the whole length of the stem into the small stellate portion which rests on the surface of the solution .
In some cases setting occurs before the whole of the drop has had time to expand into the mushroom ; the latter is then comparati vely small and bears in the centre a knob representing the unexpanded portion of * W- Thomson , 'Proc .
Roy .
Inst. , ' vol. 11 , Part 3 ( 1886 ) ; C. E. Darling , 'Liquid Drops , etc. ' ( 1914 ) .
306 Mr. E. Hatschek .
Forms assumed by the original drop .
The various shapes can be obtained at will by very careful adjustment of the temperatures and densities .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; 1 and 2 .
Normal hanging drop forms without shrinkage .
3 .
Long hanging , drop , showing crenation and incipient rib formation , due to shrinkage .
The hatched figure shows the cross section on the level of the dotted line .
4 .
Crenation and ribs more pronounced than in the previous specimen .
5 .
This specimen shows considerable elongation of the neck of the drop , with the formation of four ribs .
The hatched figure shows the cross section on the level of the dotted line .
6 .
Elongation still more pronounced : the neck becomes a band of lenticular cross section .
7 .
Extreme stretching and simultaneous shrinkage , leading to formation of " undulating membrane .
" 6 .
Incipient vortex formation , checked by gelation before the vortex developed fully .
With all other variable factors chosen at definite values the shape is , however , still extraordinarily sensitive to very slight changes in the reaction of the solution and of the sol .
The former is generally acid to Congo red\#151 ; which is one of the most convenient dyes for staining the gelatin , as the change of colour indicates when the specimens have been permeated and hardened\#151 ; while the gelatin is so slightly acid as not to turn this indicator , or neutral .
If the sol is made alkaline with NaOH to extent of N/ 20 , the mushroom or " medusa " shape no longer results , but only " hanging drop " forms .
If the acidity of the solution is then accordingly increased , vortex formation occurs i Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid .
307 again , but is perceptibly less perfect .
Even the dye , notwithstanding its minute concentration , has a definite effect .
Thus , if roccellin ( the sodium salt of j9-sulpho-naphthalene-azo-/ 3-naphthol ) is used instead of Congo-red , there is a noticeable spreading of the drop on impact with the solution , a large starshaped splash being formed , from which the vortex , however , develops normally .
The most interesting feature of the specimens just described is the formation of ribs and the complicated form of the disc or bell portion .
It would form an attractive subject for speculation were it not that several crucial experiments prove it to be due to shrinkage , which , moreover , must occur pari pasm with , or even before , gelation of the sol .
Gelation is of course the more rapid the lower the temperature of the solution , while shrinkage is reduced ; accordingly at 15 ' the formation of ribs in aluminium sulphate is noticeably less marked .
Ferrous sulphate alone has a much less energetic action than aluminium sulphate , and in a ferrous sulphate solution , at 15 ' , very perfect " medusa " forms result without any trace of ribs .
To put the matter entirely beyond doubt , it seemed desirable to use a solution which did not contain any salt at all , and a gum arabic sol was tried , which has the necessary density at a concentration of about 9 per cent. This sol has no dehydrating or lyotrope effect* whatever on gelatin sol , and the setting of the latter is therefore pure gelation , due to fall in temperature .
Extremely beautiful " medusa " shapes can thus be obtained , showing no trace whatever of ribs .
In many cases the bell becomes so thin that although the rim is deeply coloured , its central portion shows no colour at all , and the specimen could be mistaken for an open vortex ring if the stem could not be seen issuing from , and attached to , the centre of the bell .
Various " medusae " are illustrated , diagrammatically and to scale in fig. 2 .
The types showing ribs were all obtained in mixed aluminium and ferrous sulphate solutions ; the others , which are of the simple type observed with liquids , by dropping gelatin sol into gum arabic sol .
As this is very liable to become mouldy , it is necessary to preserve it by the addition of boric acid or formaldehyde , if it is to be kept or used repeatedly .
If formaldehyde is employed , the specimens harden after some time in the sol ; if not , it is advisable to harden them afterwards in 0'5 per cent , formaldehyde solution .
The specimens obtained with the sulphate solution were generally preserved in it , but the somewhat surprising fact was observed that mould grew on them copiously alter some weeks .
This , however , can be prevented by a very slight addition of copper sulphate .
A considerable variety of forms had resulted from the simple procedure so * H. Freundlich , ' Kapillarcliemie , ' 1909 , pp. 54 , 410 , 418 .
Mr. E. Hatschek .
Fwms assumed by far used , but the idea suggested itself that important modifications , and particularly a vortex arrested at an early stage of its development , could he Fig. 2.\#151 ; 1 , 2 , and 3 show the development of the medusa form in aluminium sulphate solution of decreasing concentration .
1 .
Medusa with deep ribs ; , elevation ; b , plan of underside of bell .
A cross section along the dotted semi-circle developed into a plane is shown in c. 2 .
Medusa with stem of circular cross section , shallow ribs confined to the inside of the bell ; a , elevation ; b , plan of underside of bell .
3 .
Medusa with shallow ribs running the full length of the stem .
The bell is almost flat , and shows a wide rim curved inward ; a , elongation ; b , plan of underside of bell ; c , longitudinal section on axis .
4 .
Shrunk medusa form , formed from gelatin with ammonia thiocyanate in sodium chloride-aluminium ' sulphate solution .
The drawing shows the final shape : the initial one , which is only momentary , is practically that of 3 ; a\elevation ; b , plan of underside of bell ; c , plan of inside of latter , stem cut at the thinnest part ; d , plan of floating disc at top of stem .
5 and 6 .
Medusa forms without ribs , formed in gum arabic sol .
As these exhibit no radial features , they are shown in longitudinal section only .
produced by causing a membrane to form on the drop on contact with the solution .
A semi-permeable membrane seemed promising , as\#151 ; apart from the analogy with organisms\#151 ; it would have the technical advantage of preventing diffusion of the solution into the gelatin , which could therefore be i Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid .
309 kept liquid for a longer period than was possible with sulphate solutions , so that it would be free to assume whatever equilibrium shape the membrane would establish .
While these considerations were taking place , a letter from Prof. D'Arey Thompson suggested that the shape of the human red blood corpuscle might possibly be due to arrested vortex formation , or at least capable of being imitated by it .
Since it seemed highly probable that the formation of a membrane might have some such result , experiments were immediately begun .
The arrangement which naturally suggested itself was to drop gelatin containing potassium ferrocyanide into a solution of copper sulphate .
To make sure that whatever shape might result from the formation of a membrane was really due exclusively to the latter , a blank experiment was first made by dropping pure gelatin sol into a copper sulphate solution of suitable density .
It was found that this had no coagulating action , and that the vortex of gelatin sol dissolved as would that of any miscible liquid .
A sol containing 10 grm. of gelatin and 8 grm. of crystallised potassium ferrocyanide ( K4FeCye.3H20 ) was next tried , the copper sulphate solution being adjusted to a suitable density .
Vortex formation was arrested at a depth of a few millimetres below the surface , when the drop had expanded into a disc with thickened rim , concave on its upper side in the first stage , but becoming bi-concave as it sank further through the liquid .
The ferrocyanide has a marked lyotrope effect , similar to , but less pronounced than that of thiocyanate , * lowering the viscosity , setting temperature , and setting velocity of the sol .
The discs accordingly remain soft enough to be deformed when they reach the bottom of the dish\#151 ; about 6 cm .
deep\#151 ; in which the experiments were usually made .
They were therefore continued in cylinders containing a depth of 15-20 cm .
of copper sulphate solution , and a very striking feature was regularly observed : the discs sank flat without showing any tendency to turn over on edge , as might reasonably have been expected .
This behaviour appears to indicate that the cross section is a stream line profile for the slow flow which here occurs .
The discs bear a very striking resemblance to the human red blood corpuscle , magnified about 700 or 800 diameters .
The gelatin and ferrocyanide concentrations were varied , and turned out to be rather elastic , since results practically indistinguishable were obtained over the range from 10 per cent , gelatin with 8 per cent , ferrocyanide to 14 per cent , gelatin with only 5 per cent , ferrocyanide , the copper sulphate solution being suitably adjusted .
It must again be emphasised that this adjustment refers purely to * Freundlich , loc. cit.\gt ; also H. TTreundlich and A. N. Seal , " On some Properties of the Thiocyanate Ion , " ' Koll .
Zeitschr .
, ' vol. 17 , 257 ( 1912 ) .
310 Mr. E. Hatschek .
Forms assumed by density , and in the combinations examined isotony of the two salt solutions could not be secured with a suitable density of the copper sulphate .
The discs soon after formation accordingly undergo changes strictly analogous to those which the red blood corpuscle exhibits in anisotonic solutions .
To obviate this defect from the outset , and to make a further crucial experiment , it seemed desirable to try tannin as the membrane-forming agent , tannin-gelatin being also a well-known example of the semi-permeable membrane .
Some slight difficulty resulted from the necessity of adjusting the density ; tannin in the concentration required acted much too energetically , while the use of indifferent salts , such as sodium chloride , also turned out to be impracticable , since , in the necessary concentrations , they coagulated the tannin fairly rapidly .
It was finally found possible to use cane sugar , a solution containing 20 grm. of sugar and 10 grm. of tannin per litre giving excellent results with 12-14 per cent , gelatin sols .
Of course , no addition to the latter is required ; the tannin-sucrose solution , however , is an excellent medium for the growth of moulds , and is best preserved by a small addition of formaldehyde , which has the further advantage of slowly hardening the discs without deformation .
If 12-14 per cent , gelatin sol , dyed with Congo red , or preferably with roccellin , is dropped into the solution just described , excellent models of the human red blood corpuscle can be obtained with perfect regularity , provided the temperatures , especially that of the sol , are kept within narrow limits ; 18-19 ' for the solution , and 24-5-25*5 ' for the sol at the moment of dropping in represent the suitable range .
The solution can , of course , be kept in a thermostat ; as regards the gelatin sol , sufficient constancy of temperature can be secured by using pipettes provided with a water-jacket and insulated with asbestos paper , two types of which are illustrated in fig. 3 .
If the gelatin is too warm , the discs become extremely thin in the centre , and even break through completely , forming rings , while " hanging drop " shapes result if it is too cold .
As the discs form and sink fairly slowly , the development of the shape can be watched with ease , and the normal appearance of successive stages is illustrated in 1 , fig. 3 .
Occasionally a slight trace of the " stem " is still attached to the centre of the disc , after it has assumed its final shape .
In the experiments described so far\#151 ; with one exception\#151 ; gelatin without any additions , apart from minute quantities of dyes , had been employed .
The exception is the use of ferrocyanide , for the purpose of producing a membrane on the vortex .
The use of gelatin alone , and the necessity of adjusting the density of the coagulating solution without regard to its other properties , entail a certain rigidity in the experimental arrangements .
It Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid .
311 accordingly seemed desirable to extend their scope by various additions to the sol , and the possibilities in that direction are very numerous and 1 .
' , 4 .
5 rs .
FIGS .
8 A 9 ARE HOT DRAWN TO SCALE .
FIG 3 scale of mm o 1 ?
SI 4 \#163 ; i !
: .
r ' 1 Fig. 3.\#151 ; 1 , a to d , show the successive stages in the development of the model of the i'ed corpuscles .
Sometimes the stage c , or similar concave forms , are final .
2 , a and show defective specimens resulting from too high temperature of the gelatin sol .
3 .
Large vortex with stem still attached , asymmetrically .
4 , 5 , and 6 .
Open vortex shapes .
7 .
Mushroom with hollow stem .
This as well as the three preceding specimens from gelatin with red ochre , dropped into aluminium sulphate solutions .
8 and 9 .
Two types of water-jacketted pipettes : a , water jacket ; b , asbestos insulation ; c , capillary piece restricting the discharge to single drops at convenient intervals .
interesting .
Thus , the viscosity , setting temperature , and setting velocity of the sol can be varied , with constant gelatin content , by the addition of salts from either end of the lyotrope or Hofmeister series , such as sulphates which raise , and iodides or thiocyanates which lower , those constants .
Another procedure is to add to the gelatin a finely divided pigment , e.g. , red ochre , which does not affect its other physical constants , but simply raises the density , so that much more concentrated solutions can be applied to a given sol than would be possible without that addition .
I 312 Mr. E. Hatschek .
Forms assumed Numerous experiments were made with a 12 per cent , sol containing sufficient red ochre in suspension to necessitate the use of solutions having a density of T035 at 18 ' , both aluminium sulphate and gum arabic being employed .
In the former solution setting and shrinkage were naturally .rapid but nearly uniform , so that the formation of ribbed shapes was rare ; many very perfect open vortex forms could be obtained , some of which are illustrated in fig. 3 .
No radial distribution of the pigment , which might perhaps have been expected , could be observed in any of them ; its concentration appears to be quite uniform round the periphery of any one parallel , and from one to another seems to vary simply as does the thickness , although this is a point on which it is difficult to be positive , owing to the great capacity of even thin layers .
In gum arabic simple gelation without shrinkage takes place , and very perfect medusa or mushroom forms result , of course , without any ribs .
They are exactly of the types illustrated in fig. 2 , and , like the specimens obtained in aluminium sulphate , show a perfectly uniform distribution of the suspended pigment .
The effect of lyotrope additions is extremely complex , and has been studied in detail in a few instances only .
An interesting example is a 12 per cent , sol with 8 per cent , ammonium thiocyanate , the setting temperature of which is about 15 ' , as compared with about 23 ' for the same sol without thiocyanate .
If this is dropped into a mixture of sodium chloride and aluminium sulphate solutions ( the latter alone acting too energetically at the required high density ) ribbed medusa forms result , which at the first moment are very similar to those obtained with pure 14 per cent , gelatin in aluminium sulphate alone .
They , however , contract immediately ; the stem becomes shorter and the radius of the bell smaller , while its thickness increases and the radial wrinkles develop on its lower side .
The ribs running from the inside of the bell up the stem also contract considerably , leaving the latter polygonal .
The form finally assumed is illustrated in 4 , fig. 2 .
It is not difficult to see the causes of this rapid change of shape .
At the moment at which vortex formation is arrested , the bulk of the gelatin is still , owing to the lyotrope effect of the thiocyanate liquid , and through the same cause it retains its water with greater tenacity than would a pure gelatin sol of the same concentration .
Very rapid diffusion outwards of the thiocyanate begins immediately , as can be shown by adding a trace of an iron salt to the solution , and the gelatin at the same time gives up water to the aluminium sulphate , and does so most rapidly at the thinnest portions of the vortex shape , and particularly in the ribs , which are normally extremely ) Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid .
313 delicate .
The result ; is the contraction described above .
Aluminium thiocyanate is also formed , but as this compound does not appear as a coherent membrane it is unlikely to affect the shape .
Iodide has an effect similar to , but less marked than , that of thiocyanate .
Certain experiments made with it and to be now described introduce a new feature , viz. , the formation of a membrane which , however , is not semi-permeable hut permeable at any rate for potassium iodide .
This result is obtained by using ferric chloride as coagulant .
As the effect of this salt in coagulating gelatin is almost instantaneous even in low concentrations , it is not possible to use it alone , and the necessary density has to be attained by sodium chloride .
The majority of the experiments were performed with a 21 per cent , solution of iSTaCl , to which was added 2 per cent , by volume of concentrated ferric chloride solution , making the concentration of FeClg about 12 per cent. If 10 per cent , gelatin sol containing ' from 4 to 8 per cent , potassium iodide is dropped into this solution , hanging drop forms result which however exhibit very striking anomalies .
A membrane is instantly formed on the submerged portion of the drop ; as more gelatin sol is added , the membrane is ruptured and the drop grows with a jerk , a phenomenon which may be repeated many times .
At the same time water very rapidly diffuses into the gelatin , and , the submerged portion being enclosed by a stiff membrane , causes the floating " head " to swell until it assumes a nearly hemispherical shape .
As the weight increases at the same time , this may lead to further segmentation , which often takes place after some minutes ' standing .
The head as well as the whole interior of the drop remain liquid for a considerable time , until the iodide concentration has been so much reduced by diffusion that the gelatine sets at the temperature then prevailing .
That exosmosis of iodide occurs is shown by the reaction between it and ferric chloride , with liberation of iodine , which manifests itself after some time in the solution .
It is worth mentioning that the density of the gel is greater than that of the solution , the drops being supported by surface tension , as is strikingly shown by the meniscus of the water surface indicated in dotted line in 1 , fig. 4 .
If the heads of two .
or more drops come into contact while still liquid they coalesce , and twins , etc. , are formed .
The rupture of the membrane often r $ takes place irregularly , asymmetrical forms being the result , which show only a remote resemblance to the normal hanging drop .
A number of representative specimens are drawn on fig. 4 .
In this series of experiments we have an opportunity of observing the effect of imbibition and consequent swelling , in contrast with the shrinkage vol. xcv.\#151 ; a. 2 c i Mr. E. Hatschek .
Forms assumed by phenomena described previously .
The effects observed recall rather strikingly some features of the " osmotic vegetations " produced by placing fragments of Fig. 4.\#151 ; Segmented forms , all obtained by dropping potassium iodide gelatin into sodium chloride-ferric chloride solution .
1 and 2 .
Symmetrical forms , showing slight deviation from the normal hanging drop profile .
4 to 7 .
Increasing lack of symmetry due to irregular rupture of the membrane .
3 .
Twin formed by the coalescence of the liquid heads of the individuals composing it .
a very soluble salt , e.g. , ferric or manganese chloride , into a solution of sodium silicate .
The growth of these vegetations also depends on the periodic rupture of a membrane , although the mechanism of the rupture is different .
The experiments described above were begun with the idea of imitating organic forms , and may probably claim , as regards the choice of material , the strict simplicity of the experimental conditions , and the great variety of forms obtained by minute changes in the latter , to present a much closer approach to organic conditions than most previous attempts directed to the same end .
At the same time , the author is not competent to make such applications of the results to problems of biology as may occur to experts in that science , nor prepared to suggest that parallelism between the natural and the artificial form proves parallelism in the modes of their production .
Drops and Vortices of a Gelatinising Liquid .
315 The simple object of the investigation , so far as biology is concerned , was to test , or to extend , Prof. D'Arcy Thompson 's thesis that the forms of the simpler organisms tend to be forms of equilibrium , such as are naturally assumed by fluid bodies under the influence\#151 ; suitably balanced or restrained \#151 ; of gravity , surface tension , and friction .
The experiments were therefore directed to the production of drops which , if not more complicated than those hitherto described , should at least be more permanent , and thus better suited for observation and comparison .
The use of a gelatin liquid for this purpose has led to results somewhat exceeding these expectations , inasmuch as many of the forms obtained are such as cannot be equilibrium figures , either transitorily assumed or permanently maintained by true liquids , e.g. , the numerous forms showing a radial development , or the bi-concave disc .
These permanent or quasi-permanent configurations exhibit an outward resemblance to , or analogy with , the forms of various simple organisms which is sufficiently obvious , and the research may claim to have been to some extent successful in this direction .
There is , however , one further point to which the student of colloidal physics may legitimately direct attention : the great liability to variation of the forms resulting from a strictly defined and constant mechanical method of production , a liability due to the extreme sensitiveness of the physical properties of gelatin\#151 ; and , mutatis mutandis , any other organic gel\#151 ; to minute changes of salt concentration and temperature .
Thus , the entire range of forms obtainable with aluminium sulphate as coagulant is produced by varying the density of the latter between T027 and 1-035 , i.e. , between concentrations of 2-0 and 2-8 per cent. , the difference between the two extremes amounting to about 23 millimoles of A12(S04)3 .
Again , while a certain gelatin sol at 25 ' , dropped into aluminium sulphate solution at 18 ' , produces ribbed medusa forms , the same sol dropped into the tannin-sugar solution , at the same respective temperatures , assumes the shape of the human red blood corpuscle .
This , in its turn , is only perfect if both temperatures are kept within a range of one degree , a curiously striking parallel with natural conditions .
In the last analysis , all variations described can , with more or less clearness , be traced to the balance of a number of factors depending on well-known properties of gelatin gel : on the very high value of the temperature-viscosity coefficient near the setting temperature ; on the variable ratio between the velocity of gelation due to simple cooling and the velocity of shrinkage due to the specific action of such salts as aluminium sulphate ; and on the effect of salts dissolved in the gelatin on its viscosity , setting temperature , and setting velocity .
While gelation below a certain temperature is specific to gelatin vol. xcv.\#151 ; a. 2 D i 316 Prof. McLennan , Messrs. Ainslie and Fuller .
Vacuum Arc among proteins , the analogies between its general behaviour and that of other gels are sufficiently close in all other respects ; the effect of the lyotrope salts , for instance , is substantially the same on gelatin , albumin , and even on gels of such extremely dissimilar chemical nature as agar and silicic acid .
Even if the experiments throw no light on the origin of types of organic forms , it is probably not straining the analogy too far between the one gel used experimentally and the more complex gels which constitute organisms , or portions of them , if we suggest that they lead one to appreciate the possibilities of variation through changes\#151 ; some of them exiguous\#151 ; in the surrounding medium , the salt concentration in the organism , and the temperature .
A still closer approach to natural conditions can obviously be secured by using more complex gels , especially such as contain dissolved or emulsified fat , and by discharging them , not through air , but under the surface of the coagulant .
Preliminary trials with the latter procedure have shown the necessity of much more elaborate apparatus than that used hitherto , and the extension of the investigation in the sense outlined above must be deferred to a more favourable opportunity .
Vacuum Arc Spectra of various Elements the Extreme Ultra-violet .
By Prof. J. C. McLennan , F.R.S. ; E\gt ; .
S. Ainslie , M.A. ; and D. S. Fuller , M.A. , University of Toronto .
( Received October 24 , 1918 .
) ( Plates 7-10 .
) 1 .
Introduction .
In the prosecution of the work on ionisation potentials recently set in train by one of us , it became of importance to extend the development to include an examination of the series spectra of certain of the elements farther down in the ultra-violet region than was accessible with an optical system of quartz .
In order to carry out this extension of the work , a small 6CP prism and two bi-con vex lenses of about 15 cm .
focal length for the visible range of wave-lengths , all of good quality fluorite , were made for us by the Adam Hilger Co. , and these optical parts were used in the construction of a spectro- I

