100 Dr. S. Martin .
The Toxic . .
of the [ May 16 , 1 .
That the poisonous principle of the seeds of Abrus ( jequirity ) is a globulin.* 2 .
That the activity of this globulin is destroyed by heating its solution to 75 ' or 80 ' C. , the temperature at which it coagulates .
3 .
That this globulin produces a remarkable fall of body temperature after subcutaneous injection .
4 .
That it causes rapidity of breathing shortly before death .
5 .
That the other actions ascribable to the globulin are : the production of local oedema and inflammation when subcutaneously iujected or applied to the eye , the presence , post-mortem , of petechia ?
beneath the serous membrane , and the occurrence of haemorrhagic gastro-enteritis .
III .
" The Toxic Action of the Albumose from the Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
" By SIDNEY MARTIN , M.D. Lond. , British Medical Association Research Scholar , Assistant Physician to the Victoria Park Chest Hospital .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1889 .
An account , by Dr. Wolfenden and myself , of the physiological action of the globulin which I extracted from the seeds of the jequirity plant , has been presented the Royal Society .
I have shownf that there are two proteids present in the seeds ; a globulin and an albumose .
The present paper deals with the physiological action of the albumose .
Dr. Wolfenden and I showed in the paper referred to that the globulin possessed the poisonous qualities of the watery extract of the seeds and of the body called " abrin , " described by Drs. Warden and Waddell .
After being obtained in the pure state , it produced severe conjunctivitis when applied to the eye , and when subcutaneously injected it caused local oedema and ecchymosis , followed by death with the signs and symptoms of gastro-intestinal irritation and inflammation .
It moreover lowered the body-temperature of the pigeon in a remarkable manner .
From the method used by Drs. Warden and Waddell in preparing their " abrin , " both proteids would be obtained , since they used a watery extract and precipitated the proteids with alcohol .
Abrin would , therefore , be a mixture of globulin and albumose .
As Dr. Wolfenden and I had found that the * An account of the physiological action of the albumose of ahrus-seeds has been presented to the Royal Society by one of us ( M. ) .
May 10 , 1889 .
" 1 " * -Roy .
Soc. Proc./ ~vol .
42 , p. 331 .
1889 .
] Albumosefrom the Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
101 globulin is a powerful toxic agent , it was desirable to ascertain whether the albumose possessed the same power and produced the same symptoms .
It is very difficult to obtain the albumose in a pure state separate from the globulin .
Boiling the solution , of course , readily precipitates the globulin , leaving the albumose in solution , but as heat destroys the activity of abrus-poison , it cannot be employed in separating the tw'o proteids .
Both proteids are also thrown down by saturating their solution with neutral ammonium sulphate .
The precipitate thus formed can be redissolved and the solution dialysed , thus removing most of the salt and precipitating the globulin .
But I found many objections to this method .
The dialysis has to be prolonged over a week , and there is thus great liability to decomposition .
Moreover , it is practically impossible to precipitate all the globulin by dialysis , and the ammonium sulphate , traces of which still remain , being itself poisonous , would be likely to vitiate the result in testing the toxic action of the proteid .
I therefore abandoned this method and tried the following , which answered perfectly .
A concentrated watery extract of the seed was made and filtered direct into an excess of absolute alcohol .
The copious precipitate which fell consisted of globulin and albumose .
After a few days , the proteids were removed by filtration , washed with alcohol , redissolved in water , and reprecipitated by absolute alcohol .
They were allowed to remain under absolute alcohol for several months in order to coagulate the globulin , and were then filtered off , redissolved , and reprecipitated by alcohol , and allowed to remain under alcohol for a few months longer .
Altogether some of the proteids were allowed to remain under alcohol for eight months , or longer .
At the end of this time they were removed , washed with alcohol , and dried over sulphuric acid .
The residue was ground into a yellowish-brown powder , and consisted of coagulated globulin and of unaltered albumose .
For the purpose of inoculation this powder was mixed in distilled water , which had been well boiled to sterilise it and then cooled .
The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was clear .
It gave the following reactions :\#151 ; 1 .
Neutral to test-paper .
2 .
No precipitate on boiling .
3 .
Acetic acid gave a precipitate , which mostly redissolved on boiling , coming down again on cooling , and so on .
After boiling and cooling , the precipitate was readily soluble in dilute potash , showing that the proteid was not coagulated .
4 .
Nitric acid caused a precipitate , mostly soluble on heating , coming down again on cooling , \amp ; c. This precipitate , like the acetic acid one , is also readily soluble , after being heated , in dilute potash .
102 Dr. S. Martin .
The Toxic Action of the [ May 16 ; 5 .
Copper sulphate gave a precipitate , soluble in excess of the reagent .
6 .
Copper sulphate and potash gave a " biuret " reaction .
7 .
Mercuric chloride gave a precipitate , insoluble in excess of the-reagent .
These reactions are similar to those already described by me in the paper quoted ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 ) with the exception of the behaviour of nitric acid .
I stated in'my previous paper that nitric acid gave a precipitate in a solution of the albumose , only in the presence of sodium chloride .
This still holds true for dilute solutions of the albumose ; in strong solutions , nitric acid gives a precipitate , even if the neutral salt be absent or present in very small quantities .
^ Fatal Dose of Albumose.\#151 ; In my earlier experiments I simply weighed the quantity of dry powder to be injected ; but this is not so-accurate a method as the one I adopted later .
About O'5 gram of the powder was dissolved in sterilised normal saline solution ( 0 75 per cent. ) and filtered .
The amount of proteid dissolved in the filtrate was estimated by dropping a measured quantity of the liquid ( 1 c.c. ) into about 30 c.c. of absolute alcohol , which precipitates both the proteid and the small amount of salt in solution .
The precipitate and liquid were well boiled together , the precipitate removed , dried at 110 ' C. , and weighed .
The weight , deducting the amount of salt , equals the quantity of proteid present in solution .
This I found the only really accurate method of estimating the dose of proteid used in inoculation .
In one experiment , 1*3 milligram of albumose was injected under* the skin of a rat weighing 197 grams , being a dose of about 6*6 milligrams per kilo , of body weight .
The animal was very ill 49| hours after inoculation , but completely recovered .
Double the above dose , viz. , 2'6 milligrams , was injected under the skin of a rat weighing 134 grams ( 19'4 milligrams per kilo , of body weight ) , but no poisonous symptoms were noticed .
A fatal result is , however , noticed if the dose be as large as 60 milligrams per kilo , of body weight ; thus a dose of 10 milligrams killed a rat weighing 167 grams within 20 hours .
Symptoms.\#151 ; The symptoms produced by the albumose ^ close y resemble those noticed when the globulin is hypodermically injected .
There is gradually increasing weakness , with rapid breathing , without the occurrence of convulsions or any paralysis .
On the temperature of pigeons the albumose has the same^ effect as the globulin .
In one experiment death was caused in a pigeon by the albumose in 11 hours and 20 minutes after inoculation .
The temperature , which at the time of inoculation was 107-6 F. , fell m 4 hours and 5 minutes 4-6 ' , i.e. , to 103 ' F. , after which it began to rise .
1889 .
] Albumose from the Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
In another experiment , a pigeon weighing 335 grams was given hypodermically a dose of 20 milligrams albumose .
equal to 60 milligrams per kilo , of body weight .
In 4-| hours , the animal began to show symptoms of poisoning , and died in about 6 hours or rather longer .
As shown in the accompanying chart the temperature began to fall from the first , and with a few rises continued to fall until the animal was nearly dead , when the observations were ceased .
The curve of the number of respirations per minute follows very closely the temperature curve , until just before symptoms of poisoning appeared , when , as will be seen in the chart , the respiration curve does not follow the temperature curve .
Figure showing effect of Abrus-albumose on temperature and respirations of the pigeon .
Temperature taken in rectum every half-hour .
Dotted line , respiration ; thick line , temperature .
Post-mortem Signs.\#151 ; These are the same as noticed after death from the globulin .
There is local oedema and sometimes ecchymosis , with internally gastro-enteritis , and occasionally petechias in the serous membranes .
The blood is in most cases dark and fluid for a long time after death .
It may be semi-coagulated .
Effect on the Eye.\#151 ; The albumose causes severe conjunctivitis when applied to the eye .
Thus 1 milligram of albumose dissolved in 2 minims of previously boiled distilled water , instilled into the eye , causes severe conjunctivitis with cliemosis in less than 24 hours , and leaves at the end of six days a steamy cornea with leucomata ; there are also sub-conjunctival ecchymoses .
Effect of Heat on the Activity of the Albumose.\#151 ; The poisonous Dr. S. Martin .
The Toxic Action of the [ May 16 , action of the watery extract of abrus-seed , containing both globulin and albumose , is completely destroyed by boiling the solution .
Wolfenden and I have shown in our previous paper that if the solution of the globulin be momentarily raised to 80 ' C. , or between 75 ' and 80 ' C. , its activity is once and for ever destroyed .
I have tested the behaviour of the albumose in a similar way .
If heated to 50 ' C. the albumose still retains its power of producing severe conjunctivitis , and ' of causing death when subcutaneously injected .
If heated to 70 ' , or 75 ' C. , the albumose is still poisonous , but not to nearly so great a degree as if unheated or heated only to 50 ' C. If heated to 80 ' C. , this diminishing effect of heat on the activity of the poison is still more seen ; so that a solution of albumose containing a lethal dose , and so treated , does not produce poisonous symptoms so soon as an unheated solution , and the animal may recover .
These points are brought out in the following experiments , selected out of many similar ones , all of which were confirmative .
Experiment II .
October 13fA , 1888.\#151 ; An equal and lethal dose of albumose injected under the skin of each of three rats .
A is unheated ; B heated to 75 ' 0 .
; and C heated to 80 ' C. , previous to inoculation .
A. White rat , weight 162 grams .
Unheated albumose .
B. Rat , weight 153 grams .
Albumose heated to 75 ' C. C. Rat , weight 108 grams .
Albumose heated to 80 ' C. 11 a.m. , Oct. 13,1888 .
Inoculation made under skin of back .
2 p.m , No change in any of the animals .
11 p.m. Animal languid and drowsy .
Not easily roused by stimulation .
Huddled together .
Quite quiet , and not breathing very rapidly .
No change .
No change .
Oct. 14 , 1888 .
11 a.m. Found dead .
P.M.\#151 ; Rigor mortis well marked .
* Body cold .
Slight oedema at site of injection .
No other morbid appearances .
Found dead .
P.M.\#151 ; Rigor mortis well marked .
At site of injection , subcutaneous oedema .
Small amount of sticky fluid in peritoneum .
No further morbid appearances .
Huddied together .
Quite quiet .
Breathing rapid .
Animal dying .
Died during the day .
The above experiment shows the delay of poisonous symptoms produced by heating the albumose up to 75 ' 0 .
and to 80 ' 0 .
In the following experiment , the same fact is brought out , but the result shows recovery from a fatal dose of albumose , heated up to 80 ' C. , and no poisonous symptoms after heating the albumose to 85 ' C. 1889 .
] Albumose from the Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
105 Experiment III .
November 1st , 1888.\#151 ; An equal and lethal dose of albumose injected under the skin of three rats :\#151 ; A is unheated ; B is heated to 80 ' C. ; and C to 85 ' C. A. White rat , weight 142 grams .
Nov. 1 , 1888 .
11.20 A.m. Inoculated .
3.30 P.M. No change .
Nov. 2 , 9.30 a.m. Animal died .
Rigor mortis came on immediately .
Nov. 3 , 10 A.M , B. Rat , weight 126 grams .
11.10 a.m. Inoculated .
No change .
Animal ill .
Quiet , huddled together , and breathing very rapidly .
At 12 symptoms became aggravated .
Animal quite recovered .
Breathing normal , i Takes its food well .
C. Rat , weight 125 grams .
11.15 a.m. Inoculated .
No change .
No change .
No change .
No change .
Animal re* mained quite well .
Similar results were obtained in testing the effect of the albumose in producing conjunctivitis .
Raising the solution to a temperature of 75 ' C. and 80 ' C. diminishes the effect but does not'prevent conjunctivitis developing ; the conjunctivitis is less with albumose heated to 80 ' than with that heated to 75 ' .
Experiment VI .
April 1 7th,1889.\#151 ; One milligram alhumose dissolved in 2 minims of distilled water dropped into right and left eye of rabbit .
That dropped into left eye was previously heated to 80 ' C. Right Rye .
Unheated albumose .
April 17 , 1889 , 10.37 a.m. Inoculation .
" 18 , 10 a.m. Severe conjunctivitis with chemosis .
\#187 ; 23 , 10 a.m. Cornea cloudy ; with one leucoma .
Subconjunctival ecchv-mosis .
Left Rye .
Albumose heated to 80 ' C. 10.32 A.M. Inoculation .
10 a.m. Yery slight inflammation and a little purulent discharge .
10 a.m. Quite normal .
The conclusions from these experiments may thus be summed up :\#151 ; 1 .
The poisonous activity of abrus-albumo heating its solution to a temperature of 70 ' , 75 ' , and 80 ' G. ; and the higher the temperature the greater the diminution .
2 .
The activity of the albumose is completely destroyed by heating its solution up to 85 ' G. This is about five degrees higher than the temperature at which the activity of abrus-globulin is destroyed .
Remarks on the Results obtained.\#151 ; It is impossible not to be struck with the resemblances in chemical composition between abrus-poison Dr. S. Martin .
The Toxic Action of the [ May 16 , and the toxic principle of snake-venom .
Weir Mitchell and Reichert* have shown that in the American rattlesnakes , the venom contains two poisonous proteids , globulin and a " peptone .
" The coagulation temperature of the globulin described by them is between 60 ' and 70 ' C. The peptone is not a true peptone , as physiological chemists now understand the term ; since it is , according to Mitchell and Reichert , precipitated by acetic acid and potassium ferrocyanide .
Their peptone , indeed , seems more allied to the albumoses .
In the venom of the mocassin , e.g. , the " peptone " is precipitated by adding an excess of NaCl to the solution , besides being thrown down by dilute acetic acid .
The peptone found by these observers in cobra-venom is precipitated by acetic acid and potassium ferrocyanide , as well as by Nad added to saturation .
A true peptone is not precipitated in this manner , and X cannot but conclude that the body found by Mitchell and Reichert is closely allied to the albumose class of proteids .
The globulin of abrus-seed coagulates between 75 ' and 80 ' C. in 10 per cent , magnesium sulphate solution and between 66 ' and 73 ' C. in 10 per cent. NaCl solution.f The coagulation temperature in the last solution therefore nearly corresponds to the coagulation temperature of the venom globulin of the rattlesnakes .
Mitchell and Reichert do not mention in the presence of which salt the globulin was coagulated .
Sodium chloride distinctly lowers the temperature of coagulation .
Abrus-albumose , moreover , closely resembles the " peptones and " peptone-like " bodies found by the observers in snake-venom .
Like them it is un coagulated by heat , J it is precipitated by acetic acid , and by acetic acid and potassium ferrocyanide , and also by saturation with sodium chloride in an acid solution .
Other observers have described in cobra-venom a poisonous albumin and acid albumin ( Wolfenden ) .
Nature of Poison.\#151 ; I do not propose here to discuss fully the nature of snake-venom .
The results of Mitchell and Reichert 's researches I would wish to refer to are :\#151 ; ( 1 ) That both the globulin and peptonelike body present in the venom of the rattlesnake are poisonous ; ( 2 ) that the severe local ecchymosis produced by viperine venom is due to the globulin present in it , since such local effect does not occur after inoculation if the globulin be removed from venom .
The third point I would wish to refer to is the effect of heat on the activity of rattlesnake venom .
If the venom of the Diamond head { Grotalus ada/ man-tens ) be heated up to 74 ' C. the venom is still active ; if up to * 'Researches upon the Venom of Poisonous Serpents .
' Philadelphia 1886 .
f * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , p. 333 .
x Mitchell and Reichert state that cobra-venom may be boiled and filtered ; and the filtrate will after a time give a further precipitate on boiling .
They explain this by saying a coagulable body is formed from a non-coagulable .
1889 .
] Albumose from the Seeds Abrus precatorius .
107 76*5 ' C. a few symptoms follow a lethal dose , but recovery takes place ; while if heated up to 79'5 ' C. , 81 ' , and 100 ' , a lethal dose of the venom does not produce death .
The effect of heat varies with different snake-venoms .
It takes prolonged boiling to destroy the activity of cobra-venom ; and in some of the American snakes simple boiling does not completely destroy the activity of the venom , although it diminishes it .
These results are explicable in the consideration that by coagulation the activity of the globulin is destroyed , and by prolonged boiling the peptone or peptone-like body is decomposed .
Abrus-poison , both globulin and albumose , produce , like snake-venom , a local lesion , viz. , inflammation and oedema , with ecchymosis ; but the activity of venom in producing this result is enormously greater *than that of abrus .
It is not the globulin alone of abrus that produces the local lesion , but also the albumose .
As in many cases of such poisoning , also , the blood after death is in a fluid or semi-fluid state .
The effect of heat on abrus-poison is more marked and definite than on snake-venom .
The physiological activity of the globulin is , e.g. , completely destroyed at about its coagulation temperature , 80'C .
, while the activity of the albumose is not destroyed until the solution is raised to 85 ' C. Nature of Abrus-poison.\#151 ; To explain the action and nature of abrus- poison , two theories may be stated :\#151 ; 1 .
That the poison is of ferment-nature attached to the proteids .
2 .
That the proteids develop by contact with living tissue a body or bodies which are poisonous .
The first idea is only supported by the fact that the activity of both poisonous proteids is destroyed at about the temperature at which digestion ferments are destroyed .
At the same time , there is no evidence to show that such a temperature does not so alter the constitution of the molecule of the proteids that they do not produce by contact with living tissue toxic principles .
Since there is no accurate knowledge of the constitution of the proteid molecule , the question as to why one proteid should be poisonous and another harmless must remain unsettled .
Although this is so , the results obtained in thp experiments on the abrus-poison are definite , and may be thus summarised :\#151 ; 1 .
The poisonous activity of the seeds of Abrus precatorius , the jequirity , resides in the two proteids present in the seeds\#151 ; a para-globulin and an albumose .
2 .
Both of these proteids have practically the same action .
They produce severe conjunctivitis when applied to the eye ; and when subcutaneously injected they cause local inflammation , oedema , and ecchymosis , and gastro-intestinal irritation , with extrusion of fasces 1^8 Dr. J. Beard .
[ May 16 , and blood ; the general symptoms being , first , a great fall of the body temperature , and a condition of stupor , ending in death .
3 .
The activity of both these proteids is destroyed by moist heat .
In solution the activity of the globulin is destroyed at between 75 ' and 80 ' C. , and that of the albumose between 80 ' and 85 ' 0 .
4 .
That abrus-poison resembles snake-venom in chemical composition , in the local lesions produced , in producing a fair of body temperature , in causing semi-fluidity or fluidity of the blood after death , and , to some extent , in the effect of moist heat on it .
Abrus-poison is , however , much less active than snake-venom .
The following table shows a comparison between the activity of the venom of various snakes and of Abrus :\#151 ; Vipera berus ( common adder). .
Fatal dose in man 0 0021 gram per kilo , of body weight ( Fontana).* Eoplocephalus curtus ( Austra-. .
Fatal dose in dog , 0-00485 gram per kilo , of body lian tiger snake)+ weight ; i a grain in medium size dog ( 15 lbs. ) .
Cobra ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .Fatal dose in dog , 0-000079 gram per kilo , of body weight ; -\#177 ; 3 grain in dog weighing 18 lbs. ( Vincent Richards).$ Abrus-poison : Globulin ... ... ... ... ... ... Fatal dose , 0"01 gram per kilo , of body weight .
Albumose ... ... ... ... ... ... Fatal dose , 0*06 gram per kilo , of body weight .
Peptic albumoses ... ... .
Fatal dose in dog , any dose oyer 0*3 gram per kilo .
of body weight ( Pollitzer).S IY .
" On the Early Development of Lepidosteus osseus .
\#151 ; Preliminary Notice .
" By J. Beard , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , Zoologist to the Scottish Fishery Board , Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor T. H. Huxley , F.R.S. Received April* 20 , 1889 .
* In the spring of 1888 I journeyed to North America for the purpose of collecting material for a study of Ganoid development .
I sought and found even more material than I wanted in the now well-known habitat of Lepidosteus , Black Lake , N.Y. No better hunting-ground could be wished for by the morphologist in search of Ganoid material .
The lake contains A.mia\gt ; , multitudes of , and ( it is said ) sturgeons .
One need not be at much trouble in seeking sturgeons , for the River St. Lawrence , which flows within 12 miles of Black Lake , will vie with any Russian river .
I made the * Quoted in Marx , * Gift-Lehre , ' vol. 2 , p. 74 .
" Report of Special Commission on Snake-poisoning .
" 'Australian Med. Journal , ' 1876 , No. 21 , p. 104 .
J ' Landmarks of Snake-poison Literature .
' S ' Journal of Physiology , ' 1886 .

