III .
An Extract of a Letter from Dr. Helvetius at Paris , to Monsieur Duyvenvoorde Ambassador Extraordinary from the States-General , and by him communicated to the Royal-Society .
I Am extremely pleased , Sir , that you have applied your self to me , for my Advice about the Use of the Pareira Brava which has been recommended to you , because I can give you a very good Account of it , having been one of the first that introduced it in France ; I have made abundance of lucky Experiments about it , which have made this Medicine very well known to me : wherefore I assure you , you can do nothing better than to make trial of it .
The Pareira Brava is a Root which comes to us from Brazil by the way of Lisbon , but which the War has rendred pretty scarce ; however it is to be found among the good Druggists , and is sold at Paris for 40 Livres the Pound : it is called in Brazil the Universal Medicine , and is made use of there in all kind of Distempers .
A Capuchin Monk , who came from thence , told me that he could not give it a greater Character than by assuring me , that in all their Voyages they carried the Gospel in one Pocket and the Pareira Brava in the other .
'Twill be very easy to convince you , Sir , that the Pareira Brava is perfectly good in your Distemper .
The Business with you is to restore the Digestions , to the end , that in the first Passages there may not be formed so much Phlegm and acid Crudities ; and it is also necessary to hinder the Serosity of the Blood from spreading it self too much upon the Parts , Now as Experience shows us that the Pareira Brava does abundantly provoke Urine , it will follow from thence that it will discharge by the Kidneys the corrosive Acidity of the Mass of Blood ; it is a so good to break and thin the piruitous and viscous Humors ; and it cures the Suppressions of Urine occasioned by Obstructions in the Kidneys .
One may conclude from hence , that the Salts of the Pareira Brava , which are moderately Volatile , are proper to dissolve or separate the too thick and too close Texture of the Sulphur of the Lympha Finally this Medicine has a light or gentle Bitterness which corrects the Acids of the Stomach , and renders them more pure and fine .
Hence the Chyle becomes better digested and more Balsamick , and fitted to assimulate it self with the Blood , and to preserve therein that degree of Division and Fluidity which is necessary for it .
The Method of using this Root with success , is to reduce it to an impalpable Powder , and to infuse thereof the weight of a Demi-gros in a Pint of boiling Water , and let it lye in it all Night , and next Morning boil it one moment .
Then pour the Liquor off gently from the Powder , and take of it a Demi-setier in two Cups with a little Sugar as hot as Tea , putting into each Cup 5 Grains of the said Root reduced to an impalpable Powder , which you must stir with a Spoon , that none of it may remain at the Bottom .
You may repeat the same Dose about 4 Hours after Dinner , but you must not eat any thing within an Hour after you have taken it .
This Medicine does not oblige you to alter the ordinary Course of your living ; and you may continue the use of it several Months together , in which time also you may discontinue it two or three Days together at a time , if you please ; but you should take some gentle Purge every Fortnight or Three Weeks during the use of the said Medicine .
The Preparation of the Pareira Brava , as Monsieur Duyvenvoorde uses it .
TAke Eleven Grains of this Root , and put it into a Pewter Tea-pot filled with boiling Water , and so let it infuse all Night over warm Ashes , or a very small fire ; and in the Morning boil it again , but very gently , till you use it .
You must drink it just as you do Tea , and the Liquor which comes from this Infusion must not exceed the Quantity of 5 small Dishes of Tea .

