XIII .
A Letter from John Starr M. D. to John Huxham M. D. F. R. S. containing an Account of an Horse bit by a mad Dog .
Dear Sir , Liskard , Jan. 10 .
1749 .
BENEATH you have the Account you requested : If it contains any thing worthy your Perusal , I shall be pleased .
Nothing deserving Notice is , I think , omitted : Every Circumstance is truly , and it may be too particularly related .
Read June 21 , 1750 .
Dec. 1 , 1745 .
a Neighbour 's large Mastiff Dog , mad , broke out in the Night from the Place where he was too carelessly confined ; and , by a rotten back Window , entered my Stable , fell upon my Horse , and bit him in many Places , as Shoulder , Breast , and right Nostril ; which was indeed much torn .
He bled largely .
The Town being early in the Morning alarmed by this mad Dog , and my Horse being found loose , his Collar broke to Pieces , wounded in many Places , and much Blood scattered up and down the Stable , it was too justly concluded the Dog had fallen upon him .
According to Desault 's Method , and what Dr. James says , in a Letter I had from him on another Occasion , will effectually prevent the ill Consequences of this Bite ; I immediately ordered the Wounds to be well rubbed with a mercurial Ointment , ex Axung .
porc .
~ .
Argent .
viv .
~ .
About ~ .
were at times expended~ Next Morning he was bled two Pounds or more ; after which I gave him in Milk * Lichen ciner .
terrest .
3vj .
Pip .
nig .
3iiij .
five Mornings successively ; which I repeated at the End of a Fortnight for four Mornings more .
As the Pulv .
Antilyssus was not in our Shops , and no one in Town knew the Lichen but myself , I went with my Servant Sunday Forenoon , the Day of my Horse 's Misfortune , to seek it .
What I found was , I fear , too young ; for it seemed just coming from the Earth , and the Leaves were scarce one third as big as at its full Growth .
I got what I hoped might be sufficient ; and , after cleansing , perhaps too hastily dried it at the Fire , that it might be ready for Use the next Day .
The Wounds healed up soon , without any other Application ; and the Horse fed uncommonly hearty after a Day or two ( during which the Fright had made him uneasy and fretful ) and seemed to improve considerably in every respect .
I omitted riding him for 20 Days ; but about the 20th rid him two short Journeys only .
He travelled cheerful and brisk , and I took care not to heat him ( for tho ' the Horse was old , I would not willingly have parted with him for 20 Pieces ) .
I saw him every Day , but could in no respect discover any thing amiss .
Dec. 25 , two Days before the full Moon , my Servant told me , that in the Morning he trembled much on entering the Horse-Pool , and refused to drink at the watering Trough ; but in the Evening drank heartily at another Well .
This alarmed me ; but considering that Horses frequently refuse to drink there , and that he drank in the Evening , I was someP pp what * See these eTrans .
No. 237 , p. 49 , anno 1697 .
what easy ; but ordered my Servant , if he refused next Morning drinking at one , to try him at the other ; and if he refused at both , to let me immediately know it .
Dec. 26 .
As soon as he entered the Horse-Pool , he trembled all over in a most surprising manner , and would by no means attempt to drink .
The Servant immediately returned with him .
I ordered him to be led into a small Pool of Rain-Water which stood in my Court .
The Trembling returned ; every Muscle was strangely agitated ; he looked as if he were melancholy on the Water , smelt to it , but would not touch it .
Being put into the Stable , a Bucket of pure clean Water was brought to him ; he eagerly thrust his Mouth into the Water , but , endeavouring to suck it , a Convulsion seized him .
I was now satisfied he had a true Aquae Pavor .
He was bled to about 3 Pints , Musk 3~ .
Cinnab .
Ant. 3j .
made into a Ball with Cons .
Anthos was given him .
In bleeding he once snapped at the Smith , tho ' well known to him , having shoed him for Years : And indeed this was the only Time he attempted to bite any one .
In about two Hours after the Musk was given to him , I offered him with my own Hands about two Gallons of white Water warm : he drank it off without the least Difficulty or Hesitation .
Had I dissolved in it two Ounces of Nitre , I had certainly done well .
Had the Quantity of Musk at first given been greater ( for Dr. James writes , me he gives the above Quantity of the best Musk in a Watchfulness remaining after a febrile Delirium is removed ) , or had I now again repeated the same Ball , I am apt to think the Horse might have been saved ( this being the Tonquin Method , even after the Appearance of the Hydrophobia ) ; for he was as yet quiet and tractable .
I went to him as usual , handled him , and he behaved as in his former Health ; but , being looked on as a mad Horse , I saw every one was afraid to meddle farther with him .
He eat both Hay and Oats heartily .
In the Evening , about 9 o ' Clock , more of the white Water was offered him , but he drank none .
Dec. 27 .
This Night the Madness increased much for he had bit the Manger as far as he could reach , and made it quite ragged .
In the Morning he frequently bit his Breast where the Wound had been ; and when he happened to take hold , violently drew up the Skin with his Teeth .
Both these things he did during the Day at times , but most in the Morning .
I put a Tub of Water before him ; he greedily ran his Nose into it ; but , endeavouring to drink , a dreadful Convulsion seized him , which sometimes drew his Buttock to the Ground ; at others his Back was so hollowed with it , that his Belly was brought almost down on the Litter .
During the Convulsion he would groan in an affecting manner ; and frequently cry out .
As soon as the Convulsion was over , he repeated his Endeavours to drink with the same cruel Event ; and would , I believe , had the Water stood before him , have repeated it the whole Day .
He still eat his Allowance of Hay and Oats ; but when not eating , he was continually thrusting out his Tongue , and working with his Lips , as if to moisten and cool them .
His Tongue was exceeding dry , and of a blackish-brown Colour on the Surface .
As he eat Oats , I have sometimes lamented I had not mixed Turpeth .
mineral .
with them .
I tried him with Water about 9 at Night ; every thing was as in the Morning ; only the Convulsion was , if possible , stronger , and more excruciating ; for he groaned deeper , louder , and in a more affecting Tone .
His Breath was exceeding hot ; it came from his Nostrils like Smoke from a Chimney-Top ; he expanded his Nostrils as if he had been violently running ; and the Steam was visible for more than a Yard Distance .
Dec. 28 .
This Night he broke his Collar in Pieces , broke down the Partition by which he was separated from the Place of my other Horse , traversed the Stable , attempted to get out ; in order to which he beat down the under Half of the Stable-Door ; however , in the Morning , being spoken to by my Servant , he neigh 'd , immediately went to his Place , where he stood biting his Breast and Manger almost continually .
His Look was now become wild and furious , and about 10 o ' Clock I ordered him to be shot .
I am , Dear Sir , Your affectionate humble Servant , J. Starr .
P. S. I observed he was always worse , every Symptom being aggravated at the time the Moon came to the Meridian ; which again , as the Day advanced , in some degree abated .

