428 Mr. R. B. Sangster .
Novel Phenomenon in the [ Jan. n could be obtained to show absorption at three of the principal series lines , but the glass tube collapsed before any further result could be obtained .
It is hoped that more success may be obtained with a quartz or silica tube .
The author feels much pleasure in expressing his thanks to the Government Grant Committee of the Boyal Society for a grant to purchase the quartz spectrograph which was used for the purposes of this research .
On a Novel Phenomenon in the Diurnal Inequality of Terrestrial Magnetism at certain Stations .
By Robert B. Sangster .
( Communicated by Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. Revised MS .
received January 11 , \#151 ; Read February 10 , 1910 .
) In this research the author dealt with data from the Magnetic Observatories at Greenwich , Falmouth , and Pawlowsk ( Russia ) .
The declination , the horizontal , and the vertical , forces of terrestrial magnetism are denoted by D , H , and Z respectively , and the horizontal force in the astronomical meridian by X. Diurnal inequality increments are designated by the prefix A. The formula for obtaining AX is AH cos D-HAD sin D = AX , and the unit of force employed is 1 x 10-5 C.G.S. ( 17 ) .
The factor for conversion of AD from minutes of arc to units of 7 ( HAD ) is H sin V ; hours are counted continuously from midnight to midnight , and in the attached diagrams the scale value employed is 1-85 mm. = 17 .
The research ultimately proceeded on the principle of the vector diagram .
The latter has usually been employed to display variations of the horizontal component , but in this case the author uses values of AX and AZ , and so obtains a representation of the diurnal force changes as projected on the vertical plane containing the astronomical meridian .
Curves showing the force variations in this plane may be designated XZ diagrams .
The X axis being taken as positive to the right and an increase of Z as downwards , the resulting curve has to be regarded as being viewed from the east .
The feature in these diagrams to which special attention is drawn is the agreement in the trend during the early afternoon hours with a line drawn at an 1910 .
] Diurnal Inequality of Terrestrial etc. 429 angle of dip equal to the colatitude of the place of observation , and so perpendicular to the Earth 's axis .
For the hours from noon to about 17 the curves show that there is little or no variation in the force component parallel to the Earth 's axis .
The magnetic diurnal inequality observed at Greenwich during the epoch 1900-06 was more particularly dealt with .
The hourly values of AD , AH , and AZ , for " all " days of the Junes and Julys ( midsummer ) during the epoch were extracted from Table II , and from the temperature-corrected columns of Tables V and IX of the " Greenwich Magnetical and Meteorological Observations " for the several years .
The arithmetic mean value at each hour was found and converted into units of y , and the values of AX were determined and tabulated along with those of AZ .
Noon .
Noon X MidP Noon The result for midsummer is shown graphically in the diagram ( 1 ) .
The interrupted line makes an angle with the X axis equal to the colatitude of Greenwich ( tan colatitude , 38 ' 32 ' = 07964 ) , and , therefore , represents a direction perpendicular to the Earth 's axis .
It will be seen that the hours noon to 17 are closely collateral with the interrupted line , thus indicating that during these hours there was practically no variation in the component parallel to the Earth 's axis .
Diagram ( 2 ) is a similar representation of the diurnal inequality at Greenwich for " all " days of the epoch 1900-06 , the values of HAD , AH , 2 g 2 430 Mr. II .
B. Sangster .
Novel Phenomenon in the [ Jan. 11 , and AZ being obtained from the last three columns of the Greenwich Tables XII .
The diagram ( 2 ) has the appearance of resulting from a double oscillation in the component perpendicular to the Earth 's axis , while the variation in the component parallel to the axis is mainly in evidence near the turning points of this double oscillation .
The time noon to hour 16 is , however , the period when variation of the latter component is least in evidence , and the same feature was found to exist in all the other examples of XZ diagrams made from Greenwich data for the same epoch .
These included the mean of all the " quiet " days , the mean of the seven examples of each month of the year , both for " all " and for " quiet " days , and results for the single year 1904 and the single month of June , 1904 , these last for special consideration and comparison with XZ diagrams for the same epochs at Falmouth and Pawlowsk .
The values of AX and AZ for " quiet " days were corrected for non-cyclic increment in the usual way by the addition of ( 12\#151 ; t ) 1/ 24 , where I is the increment in the 24 hours and t the number of hours elapsed since midnight .
The XZ diagrams of " quiet " day means showed a recognisable difference of type from those of " all " days , particularly in the nearer approach to parallelism in the trend of the forenoon to that of the afternoon hours , while the main feature of little or no change in the component parallel to the Earth 's axis during the afternoon hours was equally well maintained .
The winter months invariably showed a shorter duration of the latter feature , while , in general , a larger diurnal range produced a more exact and lengthened exhibition of the phenomenon .
Similar results were obtained from the " quiet " day observations at Falmouth Observatory .
Diagram ( 3 ) is the XZ curve of the mean of all the " quiet " days observed there during the epoch 1903-07 , and the interrupted line shows the corresponding direction of a perpendicular on the Earth 's axis .
The mean " quiet " day of the six summer months during the same epoch , and the mean of the " quiet " days in the year 1904 and in the month of June , 1904 , were likewise dealt with , and it was found that the XZ diagrams for these also showed the existence of the phenomenon .
The author notes that all his Greenwich diagrams are nearly square-ended between hour 11 and noon , while those drawn from Falmouth data have the corresponding end more acute .
This feature almost serves to locate the origin of the data as between the two stations , and is due to the employment of G.M.T. at Falmouth .
Diagram ( 4 ) is part of the HZ curve for " all " days of the year 1904 at Pawlowsk .
The mean declination was 55/ -07 east , so that AH values approximate very closely to those of AX .
The dip of the interrupted line equals the colatitude of Pawlowsk ( tan colat .
30 ' 19 ' = 0'5847 ) .
The feature 1910 .
] Diurnal Inequality of Terrestrial , etc. of little change in the component parallel to the Earth 's axis during the hours noon to 18 is well shown here .
There is little other likeness to Greenwich or Falmouth types of XZ diagrams .
The mean of data from Pawlowsk for the five " quiet " days in June , 1904 , selected by the Astronomer Royal , also showed the existence of the phenomenon .
Diagram ( 5 ) is drawn from the mean AH , AZ , observed on " all " days at Pawlowsk during the epoch 1873-85 .
The mean trend during the early afternoon hours agrees in direction with the interrupted line , and although some of these hours show a pretty large departure , they are undoubtedly the period of the day when the component parallel to the Earth 's axis exhibits least change .
It may be stated that the existence of the phenomenon just described was inferred from a working hypothesis of the cause of the diurnal inequality , but the terms of this have not , as yet , been sufficiently defined to justify its publication .
; In conclusion , the author has pleasure in acknowledging his indebtedness to Dr. Charles Chree , F.R.S. , for kind advice on numerous technical points , and for supplying data not otherwise easily obtainable .

