96 Restoration of Paralysed Muscles by Nerve Anastomosis .
diminished strength , without reunion of the roots and without aiding the recovery of function by anastomosis .
4 .
In Macacus section of both fifth and sixth nerves almost entirely or entirely paralyses the deltoid , but not entirely the flexors of the elbow or the supinators , but in Man section of these two roots not only completely paralyses the deltoid , but also the external rotators of the arm , the flexors of the arm to such an extent at least that they cannot produce flexion , and also the supinator brevis to such an extent that it cannot produce supination , and in some cases also paralyses the extensors in the forearm .
5 .
In Macacus , in order to paralyse completely not only the deltoid but also the flexors of the elbow and the supinator brevis , it is necessary to divide the fifth , sixth , and seventh nerves , as apparently more of the fibres to the flexors of the elbow pass in the seventh nerve than in the case of Man .
6 .
In Macacus the paralysis resulting from section of the fifth and sixth may be largely restored by anastomosis of the peripheral segments of the two roots to the seventh cervical nerve , or to the spinal accessory , and the resulting restoration of the muscles does not materially differ in date of onset , in progress , or in ultimate result in the two cases .
7 .
The time taken for restoration of function by means of anastomosis is approximately the same in the case of the brachial plexus in Macacus , and in the case of the limb nerves distal to the plexus in the Dog , and in the case of the facial nerve in the Dog and in Macacus .
Electrical Effects accompanying the Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
II .
Ionisation of the Gases produced during Fermentation .
By M. G. Potter , Sc. D. , M.A. , Professor of Botany in the University of Durham .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received February 26 , 1915 .
) [ This paper is published in ' Proceedings/ Series A , No. 632 ( vol. 91 ) .
]

