A paper was read , entitled , " An Account of the Processes employed in Photogenic Drawing , " in a letter to S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. By H. Fox Talbot , Esq. , F.R.S. The subject , Mr. Talbot observes , naturally divides itself into two heads , ?
the preparation of the paper , and the means of fixing the design .
In order to make what may be called ordinary Photogenic paper , the author selects , in the first place , paper of a good firm quality and smooth surface ; and thinks that none answers better than superline writing paper .
He dips it into a weak solution of common salt , and wipes it dry , by which the salt is uniformly distributed throughout its substance .
He then spreads a solution of nitrate of silver on one surface only , and dries it at the fire .
The solution should not be saturated , but six or eight times diluted with water .
When dry , the paper is fit for use .
He has found by experiment that there is a certain proportion between the quantity of salt and that of the solution of silver which answers best , and gives the maximum effect .
If the strength of the salt is augmented beyond this point , the effect diminishes , and in certain cases becomes exceedingly small .
This paper , if properly made , is very useful for all ordinary photogenic purposes .
For example , nothing can be more perfect than the images it gives of leaves and flowers , especially with a summer sun .
The light passing through the leaves delineates every ramification of their nerves .
If a sheet of paper thus prepared , be taken and washed with a saturated solution of salt , and then dried , it will be found ( especially if the paper has been kept some weeks before the trial is made ) that its sensibility is greatly diminish ?
ed , and in some cases seems quite extinct .
But if it be again washed with a liberal quantity of the solution of silver , it becomes again sensible to light , and even more so than it was at first .
In this way , by alternately washing the paper with salt and silver , and drying it between times , Mr. Talbot has succeeded in increasing its sensibility to the degree that is requisite for receiving the images of the camera obscura .
In conducting this operation it will be found that the results are sometimes more and sometimes less satisfactory in consequence of small and accidental variations in the proportions employ ?
ed. It happens sometimes that the chloride of silver is disposed to darken of itself without any exposure to the light : this shows that the attempt to give it sensibility has been carried too far .
The object is , to approach to this condition as near as possible , without reaching it , so that the substance may be in a state ready to yield to the slightest extraneous force , such as the feeble impact of the violet rays when much attenuated .
Having therefore prepared a number of sheets of paper slightly different from one another in the composi ?
tion , let a piece be cut from each , and having been duly marked or numbered , let them be placed side by side in a very weak diffused light for about a quarter of an hour .
Then , if any one of them , as frequently happens , exhibits a marked advantage over its competitors , Mr. Talbot selects the paper which bears the corresponding number , to be placed in the camera obscura .
With regard to the second object , that of fixing the images , Mr. Talbot observed that after having tried ammonia and several other reagents , with very imperfect success , the first which gave him a success-ful result was the iodide of potassium much diluted with water .
If a photogenic picture is washed over with this liquid , an iodide of silver is formed , which is absolutely unalterable by sunshine .
This process requires precaution ; for , if the solution is too strong , it at ?
tacks the dark parts of the picture .
It is requisite therefore to find by trial the proper proportions .
The fixation of the pictures in this way , with proper management , is very beautiful and lasting .
The specimen of lace which Mr. Talbot exhibited to the Society , and which was made rive years ago , was preserved in this manner .
But his usual method of fixing is different from this , and somewhat simpler , or at least , requiring less nicety .
It consists in immersing the picture in a strong solution of common salt , and then wiping off the superfluous moisture and drying it .
It is sufficiently singular that the same substance which is so useful in giving sensibility to the paper , should also be capable , under other circumstances , of destroying it , but such is nevertheless the fact .
Now , if the picture which has been thus washed and dried , is placed in the sun , the white parts colour themselves of a pale lilac tint ; after which they become in ?
sensible .
Numerous experiments have shown the author , that the depth of this lilac tint varies according to the quantity of salt used relatively to the quantity of silver .
But by properly adjusting these , the images may , if desired , be retained of an absolute whiteness .
He mentions also , that those preserved by iodine are always of a very pale primrose yellow , which has the extraordinary and very remarkable property of turning to a full gaudy yellow whenever it is ex ?
posed to the heat of a fire , and recovering its former colour again when it is cold .

