An Account of some Cases of the Production of Colours , not hitherto described .
By Thomas Young , M.D. F.R.S. F.L.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Read July 1 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 387 .
] In a former paper Dr. Young , treating of certain phenomena of coloured light , mentioned a law , according to which it appears , that whenever two portions of the same light arrive at the eye by different routes , either exactly or very nearly in the same direction , the light becomes most intense when the difference of the routes is any multiple of a certain length , and least intense in the intermediate state of the interfering portions , and that this length is different for light of different colours .
In the same paper he showed the sufficiency of this law for explaining all the phenomenon in the second and third books of Newton 's Optics ; and in the present communication he illustrates it still further , by applying it to some new distinct cases relating to the colours of fibres , and to the colours of mixed plates .
The case respecting fibres is that of the coloured fringes produced by the interposition of a hair between the luminous object and the eye .
Here it is observed that the fringes are larger and brighter in proportion as the hair is thinner , the phenomenon being most conspicuous when a single thread of a silkworm is interposed .
The cause here assigned is the interference of two portions of light , one reflected from the fibre , and the other bending round its opposite side , and at last coinciding nearly in direction with the former portion ; hence as both portions deviate more from a rectilinear direction , the difference of the length of their paths will be gradually increased , and consequently produce the appearances of colour usual in such cases .
The rule given to calculate the difference of the paths for the light least inflected , is the analogy between that difference to the diameter of the fibre , which will be as the deviation of the ray at any point from the rectilinear direction , to its distance from the fibre .
When a number of fibres of the same kind , -as , for instance , an uniform lock of wool , -are held near to the eye , we see an appearance of halos surrounding a distant candle ; but their brilliancy , and even their existence , depends on the uniformity of the dimensions of the fibres , and they are larger as the fibres are smaller .
To an effect similar to this are ascribed the coloured atmospherical halos , substituting to the above fibres a number of particles of water of equal dimensions , and properly situated between the luminary and the eye .
Speaking of the colours of mixed plates in looking at a candle through two pieces of plate-glass with a little moisture between them , we are told that the fringes here produced are the effect of moisture , intermixed with portions of air , exhibiting an appearance similar to dew .
Here the light transmitted through the water , moving in it with a velocity different from that of the light passing through the interstices filled only with air , the two portions , it is said , will interfere with each other , and produce the effect of colours according to the general law .
In further applying this general law , the author found it impossible to avoid another supposition , which is a part of the undulatory theory he defended in his former paper ; namely , that the velocity of light is the greater the rarer the medium : and he suggests an idea , which appears to him to lead to an explanation of the dispersion of colours by refraction , more simple and satisfactory than that which he formerly advanced .
He supposes that every refractive medium transmits the undulations constituting light in two separate portions , one passing through its ultimate particles , and the other through its pores ; and that these portions re-unite continually after each successive separation , the one having preceded the other by a very minute but constant interval , depending on the regular arrangement of the particles of a homogeneous medium .
Having briefly discoursed on the application of this doctrine , he concludes by mentioning some 94 &lt; observations which appear to him to confirm what he had advanced on a former occasion touching the dispersive powers of the eye .

