VIII .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.--Part II .
Description of an almost entire Skull of Thylacoleo carnifex , Ow .
" By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. , &amp;c. ( Abstract .
) In this Part the author gives additional cranial and dental characters of the extinct marsupial carnivore , Tlkylacoleo , deduced from examination of better-preserved fossils , obtained from freshwater deposits in Darling Downs , Queensland , Australia .
The forepart of the skull , wanting in the first-described specimen from similar deposits in the province of Victoria , is preserved in the present specimen , showing the premaxillary bones , which are relatively larger than in placental felines .
Each bone has three teeth , of which the foremost is developed into a tusk , the second and third being very small .
There is no canine , or no tooth developed as a laniary in the maxillary bone .
In the short extent of the alveolar border of this bone between the great carnassial molar and the maxillo-premaxillary suture , there are two approximate small round sockets , which lodged either one double-rooted tooth or two small single-rooted teeth .
But dental development has mainly expended itself upon the perfection of a pair of laniary incisor tusks , in both upper and lower jaws , for piercing , tearing , and holding , and a pair of carnassials in both jaws for flesh-cutting .
These , in the present specimen , closely agreed with those described in the former one , but were more worn : they are the largest examples of these peculiarly modified shearblade teeth in the mammalian class .
Although the tusks are incisors-not , as in placental carnivora , canines they possess , through the singular shortness of the facial part of the skull in Thylacoleo , the same mechanical advantage , in their proximity to the biting-power of the enormously developed temporal muscles , as in Felis .
In the lower jaw there is , anterior to the carnassial , either a socket for a small double-rooted premolar , or two approximate sockets for as many single-rooted ones ; and , as in the upper jaw , these cavities do not range in the same longitudinal line with the carnassial , but extend obliquely inward and forward , from the inner side of its fore part .
There is no other alveolus in the lower jaw between the premolar one and that of the large lower tusk .
The small ' tubercular ' molar on the inner side of the hind end of the upper carnassial , and the two ' tuberculars ' behind the lower carnassial , are indicated by their sockets in the present specimen .
The author sums up , from acquired data , the dental formula of Thylacoleo as follows:-Incisors i-- , Canines , Premolars or 2Carnassials - , Tuberculars 2 Of the incisors , the mors --1 2 , 1- , e-2 .
foremost above are long and large tusks , like the pair below : of the other teeth , the carnassials , of unusually large size , are functioned as flesh-cutters , and the small tuberculars would serve for pounding gristle or tendon , as in Felis : the premolars indicated by sockets , and the small upper incisors , represent a remnant of the dental family type under its extreme adaptive modifications in Thylacoleo .
In the rest of the skull of the subject of the present Part , many particulars are yielded in addition to those deduced from the fragmentary fossils which indicate the genus .
They confirm the deductions of the marsupial nature of the large extinct Australian carnivore ; determine the alternative expressed in the author 's first communication as to the homologies of the inferior tusks , and show that the genus Thylacoleo ranges , not with the series now including Didelphys , Dasyurus , and Thylacynus , but with the Diprotodont group , more eminently characteristic of the Australian continent , and which is at present represented by , or reduced to , the genera Phascolarctos , Phalangista with its subgenera , Macropus with its subgenera , and Phascolomys .
The carnassial of Thylacoleo , in its large proportional size , absence of the tubercular part , and indications of subvertical groovings of the enamel , most closely resembles that tooth of the more ancient marsupial carnivore Plagiaulax , and is associated , in the lower jaw , as in that genus , with two small posterior tuberculars , one or two small premolars , and one large incisive tusk , similarly directed obliquely upward and forward .
Few facts in mammalian paleontology are more interesting and suggestive than the occurrence in our hemisphere , during secondary geological periods , of Marsupial forms , which find their nearest representatives in existing or tertiary extinct Marsupialia of the continent of our Antipodes .
The present Part of the author 's series of Papers on Extinct Australian Mammals is illustrated with drawings of the entire skull of the Thylacoleo carnifex .

