Ill. " On the Luminious Discharge of Voltaic Batteries , when examined in Carbonic Acid Vacua .
" By J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 6 , 1860 .
On the 24th of May , 1859 ( Proceedings , May 26 , 1859 ) , I communicated to the Royal Society a short notice of my having obtained the stratified discharge from a voltaic battery of 3520 elements charged with rain-water ; and also with one of 400 elements charged with nitric and sulphuric acids , each cell of both batteries being insulated:-I stated also that with the latter ( as I had previously shown with the former ) spark discharges passed between two terminal copper plates through the air , before the completion of the circuit .
The well-known luminous arc in air , as is usually obtained from an extended series of the nitric-acid battery , was very brilliant , but from the small size of the porous cells ( 3 inches long , ; inch broad ) containing the nitric acid , it was only tried by a momentary action .
With the water-battery I have never been able to obtaini a continuous discharge in air similar to the voltaic arc ; whether from points or plates , the discharges from this battery are invariably in the form of minute clearly defined , and separated sparks .
Although the water-battery conisisted of nearly nine times as many metallic elements as the nitric-acid batterv , it exhibited by the goldleaf electroscope very little increased signis of tension .
This is in accordanlce with the results obtained by me in 1844 , when I showed that the tenision of a single cell increased in force according to the chemical energy of the exciting liquid .
" In all the experiments I made , the higher the chemical affinities of the elements used , the greaterwas the developrnentof evidence of tension " ( Philosophical Transactions , 1844 , part 1 .
p. 52 ) .
Recently , through the kind introduction of Professor Wheatstone , I have had any opportunity of experimenting with 512 series of Daniell 's constant battery , and my present object is to present to the Royal Society a short account of the results I have obtained , and to describe the appearance and character of the voltaic discharge of these several batteries when taken in vacua .
The vacuunm-tubes I used were prepared by means of carbonic acid ( Philosophical Tranisactions , 1859 , part 1 .
p. 137 ) .
For the sake of referenice I will denote these by the original numbers which I am accustomed to attach as the vacua are completed : in the following experiments these were 146 , 187 , 190 , 196 , 202 , and 219 .
No. 146 is 24 inches long and 18 inches in circumference , and has a copper disc 4 inches diameter at one terminal and a brass wire at the other : this vessel is figured in my last communication .
No. 187 and 196 ( see fig. 1 ) are each about 6 inches long and 1 inch diameter , with gas-coke balls I inch diameter , attached to the hermetically sealed platinium wires , the wires being protected by glass t.ubing as far as the balls , placed inside the tube 3 inches apart , Fig. 1 .
No. 190 has brass wires , and No. 202 silver wires attached to the platinum : both these tubes are of the same dimensions as No. 187 and 196 ( fig. 2 ) .
No. 219 is 4 inches long , has gas-coke balls of Fig. 2 .
about Ith of arn inch in diameter , and 1 inch apart : the caustic potash originally attached to this tube has beeni sealed off ; theforrz is shown in fig. 3 .
Fil .
3 .
With the inductive coil the discharge in 146 exhibits a large cloudlike luminosity on the plate , which in these experiments was always made the negative terminal .
On the positive wire , minute luminous spots were visible .
At intervals , apparently by some sudden energetic action , flashes of bright stratified light would dart through the vacuum , but by carefully adjusting the contact breaker , the discharge could be made to pass , produicing a white glow on the niegative plate , without to the eye affording any appearance of an intermittent discharge .
In 187 and 196 the stratifications were narrow from the positive terminal , the negative ball being surrounded with a narrow halo of light similar to that in fig. 1 A , but smaller .
In 190 there was a red tinige on the cloud-like discharge near the positive terminal ; on the approach of a magnet , two or three additional clouds were brought out , the negative wire being covered with a luminous glow extending to the sides of the tube parallel to the end of the negative wire , 202 exhlibited a remarkably well-defined cloud-like discharge , the several clouds being clearly and distinctly separated .
In 219 , the appearance of the discharge in this tube was similar to that in fig. 3 A , Fig. 3 A. with a particularly brilliant glow around the negative ball , but without any stratifications from the positive .
Having thus described the appearances of the induced discharge in these tubes , I now proceed to the description of experiments made in the same vacua , -1st , with the water-battery of 3520 cells ; 2ndly , with the 512 series of Daniell 's constant battery ; and lastly , with 400 series of Grove 's nitric acid batterv .
With the water-battery , as I have stated in my previous communication , the stratified discharge , similar in character to that of the inductive coil , was obtained , not only in 146 and the other tubes , but also through 146 and any one of the others at the same time .
From the risk of fracture , I have not ventured again to heat the potash in 146 , but I have inivariably found that whenever the potash in any of the other tubes was heated , the discharge from the waterbattery , instead of increasing in distinctness and brilliancy , entirely ceased .
The discharge from the water-battery through each of the tubes had the appearance of being continuous , and the needle of the galvanometer , placed on the circuit , showed a steady deflection .
To test whether the discharge was continuous , I attached No. 219 to my rotating apparatus ( Philosophical Transactions , 1859 , part 1 .
p. 158 ) ; the discharges were then clearly separated , so that even with this apparatus they were shown to be intermittent .
As the water in the battery , after a lapse of some weeks , had partially evaporated , the action was so reduced that it would no longer pass through any of the vacuum-tubes except 219 , in which it assumed the appearance as in fig. 3 B. In this state it remained for three or four weeks , and whenever from chanige of temperature moisture was deposited on the surface of the glass tubes , the luminous discharge Fig. 3 B. disappeared when the tubes were touched by the hand or by a wire , reappearing as the hand or wire was withdrawn .
A portion of the discharge from this battery was evidently lost byinsufficient insulation , reduiced by accumulated dust and moisture .
I have not the requisite facilities at command , but a thoroughly well-insulated battery of 3000 or 4000 series would produce effects well worthy of examination .
Daniell'8 Constant Battery .
On the 27th of December , 1859 , by the introduction of Professor Wheatstone , I had the opportunity of experimenting with the large battery belonging to the Telegraph Companv at its Factory , Camden Town ; Messrs. Wheatstone , Latimer Clarke , and Bartholomew were present .
My object was to ascertain whether a luminous discharge could be obtained through the vacuum-tubes from the battery , which consists of 512 series of Daniell 's elements , zinc and copper .
The zinc plates are 2 by 3 inches , the copper 31 by 3k inches ; the cells are inisulated in series of 10 and 12 , suspended on trays bygutta-percha bands .
I experimented with three of myvacuum-tubes , Nos. 187 , 196 , and 219 , with 187 and 196 ; no sign of any luminous discharge could be observed ; the electroscopes ( Peltier 's and a gold-leaf ) , by the tension , showed that the current did not pass .
With 219 the brilliant glow around the negative ball , as is shown in the same tube by the induction coil , was visible with very trifling luminosity on the positive .
I have attempted to show this appearance in fig. 3 A. VTarious lengths , viz. 10 yards , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 and 16 miles of covered copper wire , the 110 yards covered with india-rubber , and the other lengths with gutta-percha , are kept immersed in a water-tank for the purpose of experiments at the factory ; an opportunity was therefore offered of testing the action of the battery on these wires by means of vacuum-tubes .
This immersed wire is designated the cable , acting in this respect in a manner analogous to submarine wires .
The general results obtained , and repeatedly verified , may be briefly stated as follows:-From the 110 yards to the greatest length of 16 miles , it took from half to one and one quarter of a second for the cable to receive as much of the charge of the whole battery as could pass through the vacuum-tubes 219 , the time being denoted by the appearance of the luminosity in the negative ball ( see fig. 3 A ) .
With 110 yards the discharge of a charge previously given to the cable was iinstantaneous ; it appeared to be nearly momentary with one mile , and the time then progressively increased according to the length of the cable previously charged , until with the 16 miles it took one and a quarter to one and a half seconds before the luminous glow on the ball in the vacuum-tube disappeared .
It was beautiful to see the regularity with which the glow appeared and disappeared in these experiments , first at one terminal and then at the other , according as the cable was charged or discharged .
After the cable had received the discharge to the greatest intensity that couLld be obtained through the tube 219 , the full charge of the battery was then completed by cutting off the tube from the circuit by means of a wire .
On removing the wire , and substituting the earth for the battery , a discharge took place ; but a residuary charge was always found , which could not pass through the vacuum .
If this residuary was allowed to remain in the cable , and the battery again substituted for the earth , no additional charge could be made to pass from the battery through the vacuum-tube ; but so soon as this residuary was discharged , the cable again became charged through the tube as before* .
We were particularly fortunate with these experiments ; for on Mr. Wheatstone testing the capability or power of the battery , he ascertained that on takin , from it only 32 cells , thus reducing the number to 480 , the discharge could not pass through the vacuum-tube .
Grove 's 8Nitric-Acid Battery .
Each set of elements in the battery were inserted in a glass vessel with a stem 6 inches long ; the stems were carefully cleaned and dried .
These precautions , with the high chemical affinity of the elements , raised the tension of each terminal , as denoted by gold leaf electroscopes , to nearly that of the larger series of the waterbattery .
A succession of spark-discharges could be taken betweenl the copper discs of my micrometer-electrometer , one disc being attached to the zinc , and the other to the platinum end of the battery .
In the following experiments , the different vacuum-tubes were introduced between one of the copper discs and the battery , as also a galvanometer .
By this arrangement the circuit could be gradually completed without any risk of disarranging the apparatus , and the spark discharged obtained before the copper discs of the micrometer-electrometer came into contact .
" In 146 , oln the completion of the current , the discharge of the battery passed with a display of magnificeint strata of most dazzling brightness .
On separating the discs by means of a micrometer screw , the luminous discharges presented the same appearance as when taken from an induction coil , but brighter .
Otn the copper plate in the vessel there was a white layer , and then a dark space about one inch broad ; then a bluish atmosphere , curved like the plate , evidently three negative enivelopes on a great scale .
When the plate was positive , the effect was conmparatively feeble .
" The preceding is an extract from notes made by the Revt .
Dr. T. R. Robinson , when he first witnessed the experiments in my laboratory , on the 5th of August , 1859 .
With the same vacuum I have always obtained similar results .
In 187and 196 ( fig , 1 , with carbon-balls in the tubes ) the discharge of the nitric-acid battery elicits intense heat , and probably changes the condition of the vacuum .
On the 5th of August , 1859 , " the discharge in 187 presented a stream of light of intolerable brightness [ I again quote from Dr. Robinson 's notes ] , in which , through the plate of green glass , with which he observed the phenomena , strata could be observed .
This soo 1 changed to a sphere of light on the positive ball , which became red-hot , the negative being suirrounded by magnificent envelopes , whilst with the horseshoe magnet the V , OL , X. positive light was drawni out inlto strata .
The nieedle of a galvaniometer in circuit was violently deflected , and the polarity reversed , settling at a deflection of 45 ? .
On heating the potassa , the discharge again bursts into a sun-like flame , subsequently subsiding into three or four large strata , of a cloud-like shape , but intensely bright .
" On a subsequent occasion I found that the discharge did not pass for about a minute after the circuit was completed , when a fine glow appeared on the negative ball , fig. 1 A. Around the positive ball Fig. 1 A. there was a trifling glow , in a few seconds a momentary brilliant flash , and the discharge ceased .
The potash was then again heated ; the large negative glow reappeared , followed almost instantly by a remarkably brilliant stratified discharge , with intense chemical action in the battery , denoted by the evolution of nitrous fumes ; at this moment I separated the discs of the micrometer-electrometer , and thus broke the circuit .
I now arranged the apparatus by attaching gold-leaf electroscopes to both terminals , and introduced the galvanometer , so as to enable me to examine more carefully the action that would take place when the potassa was heated .
On heating the potassa , the fine negative ( fig. 1 A ) was again developed ; the leaves of the electroscope did not close ; but as the negative glow increased , the needle of the galvanometer was suddenly deflected , immediately ( although the glow continued ) returning to zero ; as more heat was applied a small globe of light appeared on the positive ( fig. 1 B ) , was visible , and the Fig. 1 B. needle gradlually deflected 400 or 500 .
On withdrawing the lamp , as the potash cooled , the positive glow disappeared , the needle of the galvanometer receded , the glow on the negative remaining more or less brilliant ; this action and reaction alternating as the heat of the lamp was applied or withdrawn from the potash .
When the heating of the potaslh was further increased , four or five cloud-like and remarkably clear strata came out from the positive ( fig. 1 C ) ; and these were quickly followed by a sudden discharge Fig. I C. of the most dazzling brightness , which remained for several seconds .
The stratifications , which were conical in shape , I have endeavoured , although very faintly , to depict in fig. 1 D. The nieedle of the galFig .
I D. vanometerwas suddenly and violently deflected , striking with considerable force the two corks placed to protect it on the compass card .
At the instant this discharge took place , and not before , the leaves of the electroscopes collapsed .
This , with the intense chemical action observable in the battery , proved that the entire current was passing .
The preceding experiment was repeated with tube No. 196 , with nearly the same results , the needle first deflecting 400 and then 800 .
On further heating the tube , the same sudden intense stratified light appeared , after which the discharge ceased .
No. 187 was then replaced in the circuit , and the same phenomena , as already described , were obtained .
I now again avail myself of Dr. Robinson 's notes of the experiments made on the 5th of August .
Tube 190 is of the same dimensions as 187 and 196 ; but instead of the coke balls , it has brass wires attached to the platinum .
In this tube ( 190 ) the luminous discharge did not appear until the caustic potassa was heated , when most dazzling strata were observed .
Dr. Robinson says , - " I had to use a darl-green glass to examinie the strata ; as 1 was observing , the last srata rolled leiurely away , like a globe of light , from the others , to the niegative glow , in which it appeared to dissolve .
As the potassa , cooled , the strata shruink u:p and dissolved at the positive wire , as did the glow ; and when the dark negative reached the point , all lunminosity ceased .
" Oin a subsequent occasioni the first diseharge in the tube ( 190 ) exhibited a finead purple niegative glow , with two tawny cloud-like stratifications at the positive .
This discharge exhibited the fluorescence of the glass tube in a remarkable manner .
The circuit was then broken ; on again completing it , I was somewhat surprised at finding the luminous diselcarge wras no longer perceptible .
I then slightly heated the tube with a spirit-lamp ; the stratified discharge reappeared ; the needle of the galvanlometer deflected about 650 , bnt the leaves of the electroscopes were very slightly afected .
On separating the plates of the micrometer-electrometer , sparks passed ; the stratifications in 190 became e confused , intermingling withi each other , arid no longer presenting that clearness of definition which I have described .
With tube 202 , which is of the same dimensions , with silver in lieu of brass terminal wires , there was not any discharge from the battery ulntil the potash was heated .
At first it presented a fine white glow on the negative wire , then one of a tawny red colour on the positive ; and on heat being applied , stratifications , as in 190 , were observed .
The battery was then connected to the w rires of tube 219 , the same with which the experiments with Daniell 's battery were made .
This showed the luminouis negative as in fig. 3 A , but more brilliant than with the constant battery ; producing bright scintillations at the positive , as if particles of the carbon were fused and thrown off .
By the preceding experiments , I ascertained that a disruptive or spark-discharge could be obtained in air from the nitric-acid , as well as from the water-battery ; and that when these discharges were passed through the bighly attenuiated matter contained in carbonicacid vacua , the same luminous and stratified appearance was produced as by an iinductive coil , a proof that whatever may be .
the caise of the phenomenia , it could not arise from any Peculiar action of that appara tus .
WVVith the ordinary arrang-ement of the voltaic battery , in which the insulationi of the cells is disregarded , the Ituninous discharge is 'usually obtainiedl by completing the circuit , and then separating the terminal wires or the charcoal points , the length of the arc beinag in relation to the numllber of the elements of the battery .
WVtli the water-batter-y I have niever been able to obtaini the slightest appearance of ain arc-discharge ; for whether the terminals of the battery were the plates of muy micrometer-electrometer , mc-tallic wires , or charcoal , the result was the same ; viz. clearly separated and distinct sparks , which continued unitil the water in the cells had nearly evaporated .
With four hundred ( each cell being , insuilated ) of Grove 's nitric-acid battery , similar spark-discharges were obtainied between the plates of my micrometer-electrometer , without producing the voltaic arc , although by a momentary completioni of the circuit it was obtained with great brillianicy .
In carbonic acid vacuum-tubes , and particularly in those in which carbon-balls were iniserted , the disruptive , as well as the voltaic are discharge ( under the conditions described ) was obtained from the nitric-acid battery ; and in both instances the stratified appearance was ooserved , the difference being , that with the arc-discharge the stratifications were far more vivid and brilliant , and the discharge itself evidenitly more energetic .
With the disruptive discharge , the needle of the galvainometer was but slightly deflected , nor could any apparent chemical action be observed in the battery ; but instantly on the production of the are-discharge , the needle of the galvanlometer was strongly deflected , and in all the cells of the battery it was evident that intense chemical action had been produced .
If carbon-balls are attached to the wires of a carbonic acid vacuumtube , the arc-discharge is obtained from a nitric-acid battery whenever the potash is heated .
This process facilitates the discharge , and assists the disirntegration of the carbon particles ; and these in a mrinute state of division are subsequently founed attached to the sides of the glass .
It is these particles which produce the arc-discharge , with its intenise vivid light so suddenly observed , with far more brilliant effects than the usual stratified discharge .
DLuring its passage the conducting power of the vacuum-tube is found to be greatly enhanced , as shown by the galvanometer , the electroscope , and the initenise chemical actioni in the battery .
The samile explanation that I ventured to offer in the Bakeriai .
Lecture for 1858 , as to the cause of the stratified discharge arising from the impulses of a force acting on highly attenuated but resisting media , is also applicable to the discharge of the voltaic battery in vacua ; while the fact of this discharge , even its full intensity having been now ascertained to be also stratified , leads me to the conclusion , that the ordinlary discharge of the voltaic battery , unuder every condition , is not continuous , but intermnittent ; that it consists of a series of pulsationis or vibrations of greater or lesser velocity , according to the resistance in the chemical or metallic elements of the battery , or the conducting media through which the discharge passes .

