95 i882 .
] On the Coxal Glands of Scorpio .
by a Carre ice machine .
Two carafes were prepared at a time , and there was plenty of time to keep one constantly at hand .
In order to allow the Miller-Casella thermometers to record the high temperature of 50 fathoms in the last series , they were lowered very rapidly to that depth , and after eight minutes reeled back at the rate of 200 fathoms per minute , so that the minimum side had not .time to assume a lower temperature .
The cable was led from a large reel through an 18-inch leading block , and was lowered and reeled in very slowly , and without jerks .
It may be noted in the above Tables that the two instruments gave -precisely the same readings at positions of maximum or minimum temperature , but that in intermediate positions the electrical thermometer , in almost every instance , gave a higher reading .
This discrepancy may be accounted for , I think , by the circumstance that the electrical thermometer gives the temperature of the water actually surrounding the coil at the moment of observation , whereas the reading of the Miller-Casella instrument must be affected by the Tna-rimrim or minimum tempe'ratures encountered in its ascent or descent , which may not coincide with that at the points of stoppage .
A strong argument in favour of the electrical instrument for geodetic and meteorological purposes has thus been furnished .
Y. " On the Coxal Glands of Scorpio hitherto undescribed and corresponding to the Brick-red Glands of Limnlus , " By E. Ray Lankestek , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Received May 25 , 1882 .
In my essay entitled " Limulus an Arachnid , " * I have mentioned .
Dr. Packard 's discovery of the " brick-red glands " of Limulus , situated at the junction of the coxae of the prosomatic limbs with the body in the following terms:\#151 ; " It is true that Packard has assimilated a brick-red coloured structure occurring at the base of the cephalothoracic limbs of Limulus to a shell-gland or renal organ .
In this I cannot agree with him .
It is not even apparent , at present , that this brick-red organ , which I have examined , is of a glandular nature at all .
" Dr. Packard first described these glands in 1874 , and figured them subsequently in his valuable memoir on the " Anatomy , Histology , and Embryology of Limulus Polyphemus , " published in the Anniversary Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History , 1880 .
# " Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , " 1881 .
Mr. E. R. Lankester .
[ June 15 , Dr. Packard observes\#151 ; " These glands are quite large and apparently of some physiological importance , and are easily found , as they are conspicuous from their bright red colour , causing them to contrast decidedly with the dark masses of the liver , and the yellowish ovaries or greenish testes , near which they are situated .
The glanda are bilaterally symmetrical , one situated on each side of the proventricle and stomach , and each is entirely separated from its fellow .
Each gland consists of a stolon-like mass extending along close to the great collective vein , and attached to it by irregular bands of connective tissue , which also hold the gland in place .
Prom this horizontal mass four vertical branches arise , and lie between and next to the partitions at the base of the legs , which divide the latero-steraal region of the cephalothorax into compartments .
The posterior of these four vertical lobes accompanies the middle hepatic vein from its origin from the great collective vein , and is sent off opposite the insertion of the fifth pair of feet .
Halfway between the origin of the vein and the articulation of the limb to the body , it turns at a right angle , the ends of the two other lobes passing a little beyond it , and ends in a blind sac , less vertical than the others , slightly ascending at the end , which lies just above the insertion of the second pair of feet .
The two middle lobes are directed to the collective vein .
Each lob\#169 ; is somewhat flattened out , and lies dose to the posterior wall of the compartment in which it is situated , as if wedged in between the wall and the muscles between it and the anterior portion of the compartment .
Each lobe also accompanies the bases of the first four tegumentary nerves .
" I can fully confirm the accuracy of this careful description of the naked-eye appearance and situation of these glands .
I am also in agreement with Dr. Packard , when he states that these glands have no opening into the great veins , and , like him , I have as yet been unable to detect the situation of their opening to the exterior .
Dr. Packard 's description of the minute structure of these brick-red bodies is such as to have led me to doubt the correctness of his conclusion that they are glands and more especially renal glands .
At the time when I wrote to that effect I had only made dissections showing their position and relations in two specimens of Limulus .
I have since been able to obtain perfectly fresh specimens of the brick-red glands from a Limulus killed for the purpose , and having hardened them in absolute alcohol , I have prepared and examined sections demonstrating their minute structure .
This does not agree with the description given by Dr. Packard , whose account of the minute structure of these bodies led me to doubt their glandular nature .
Dr. Packard states that * ' the four lobes end in blind sacs and have no lumen or central cavity , " and in the next paragraph somewhat 1882 .
] On the Coxal Glands of Scorpio .
97 inconsistently remarks " each lobe when cut across is oval , with a yellowish interior and a small central cavity .
" He states that the gland is " dense though yielding , and on this account hard to he cut with the microtome , " and appears to have confined his observations accordingly to preparations of the fresh gland teased .
Various kinds of cells , from a " cortical " and a " medullary " substance of the gland , are described and figured , but it does not seem to be possible to bring these results of " teasing " into relation with what I have observed in sections taken in various directions across the lobes of the gland , and stained and mounted in the usual way in balsam .
I find that each of the quadrilobate glands , which I should propose to call the right and the left " coxal glands , " is essentially a sac , lined with a characteristic glandular epithelium , the lumen of the sac being cut up into a number of inter-communicating passages by the production of the inner surface of the sac into very numerous and far-reaching trabeculae .
The gland-cells which clothe these trabeculae are remarkable for their round , well-defined nuclei , and for the possession of a peculiar differentiation of the substance of the cells near their free surface , which has at first sight the appearance of a very thick cuticle .
A more detailed account of the structure of these cells may be deferred for the present .
My object now is to point out that in the Scorpions there exists a similar pair of large coxal glands , having essentially the same structure and position as the coxal glands of Limulus .
I was led to look for the existence of such glands by the hypothesis that Scorpio and Limulus are very closely related members of the class Arachnida ; and it will , I think , be conceded that the discovery of the existence of such corresponding organs goes a long way towards confirming the conclusion as to the close affinity of the two annuals , to which I had been led by the observation in them of numerous other structural coincidences .
The coxal glands of the Scorpions are very large and prominent structures , each attaining the size of a dried pea in a large Indian scorpion of five inches in length .
They are placed as in Limulus at the junction of the coxae of the ambulatory limbs with the body ( % .
\#174 ; .)* They do not send lobes forward corresponding to the second , third , and fourth of the six limbs of the prosoma , but are oblong white bodies resting upon the sternal prolongations of the hinder limbs ( fifth and sixth ) on each side .
Posteriorly each gland rests against the ingrowing chitinous wall ( fig. 1 .
C. ) of the coxa of the last limb of the prosoma which forms the posterior cornu of the entosternite , but the mass of the gland lies in the hollow of the sternal prolongation of the fifth limb , and is attached to it by a triangular outgrowth which I shall provisionally speak of as a duct , though I have not at present succeeded in finding any external aperture corre-vol .
xxxiv .
H Mr. E. R. Lankester .
[ June 15 , I sponding to these coxal glands of the Scorpion , any more than I have % in the case of the similar glands of Limnlns .
Diagram of the anterior portion of a Scorpion 's body , to show the position of the coxal glands .
A. Anterior glandular ceeca of the alimentary canal ( salivary glands of Newport and Blanchard , not of Dufour ) .
These are drawn of smaller size than natural , and are turned forward so as to expose the coxal glands .
B. The coxal gland of the left side .
C. Fibrous septum ( diaphragm of Newport ) formed by the posterior cornua of the entosternite .
D. Glandular cseca of the alimentary canal ( so-called " liver " ) .
E. Axial portion of the alimentary canal .
1 to 6 .
The six pairs of limbs of the prosoma .
These oblong , almost egg-shaped , glistening white bodies have not altogether escaped the notice of previous students of the anatomy of Scorpions ; but owing to the fact that spirit-specimens have been used by most naturalists who have dissected Scorpions , and that spirit fails to preserve the softer tissues of a whole Scorpion in a fit state for observation , the nature of these glands has been misunderstood .
I have been enabled to dissect freshly-killed specimens of the large Indian scorpion , Sc. cyaneus ( allied to the species called Buthus* * Not the genus Buthvs of Leach , but of Gervais , identical with Heterometrns of 1882.1 On the Coxal Glands of Scorpio .
Kochii and Buthusafer by some authors ) , through the kind exertions of my friend Dr. Henry Trimen , Director of the Royal Gardens at Peridenya , Ceylon , also of the fine North African ( Ehrenberg spec .
) , of which I received specimens in a living state from Algeria through the courteous intervention of Professor Carl Vogl , of Geneva ; and , lastly , of Scorpio Roessel , and Sc. Carpathicus , Linn. , the common little Italian scorpions ( not to be .confused with the larger yellow Spanish Sc. of Linnaeus , which is an Androctonus closely allied to A. funestus and often called A. occitanus ) , for which I have to thank Mr. Gibson Carmichael .
When the prosomatic carapace is removed from one of these Scorpions recently killed , the white oviform coxal glands are seen in the position described , right and left of the alimentary tract .
The anterior glandular caeca ( fig. 1 .
A. ) of the alimentary tract , called salivary glands by Newport , rest upon the coxal glands and hide them to a certain extent .
This proximity has led to the notion that the coxal glands are connected with the alimentary canal .
Newport in the plates illustrating his masterly description of the circulatory and nervous system of the Scorpion , published in the " Phil. Trans. " nearly forty years ago ( 1843 ) , has figured these bodies , but has not described them in the text of his work .
In the description oI the plate they are spoken of as " lateral appendages of the thoracic portion of the canal , ( ?
) gizzard ( ?
) .
" The accuracy and completeness of Newport 's account of the vascular and nervous systems is worthy of profound admiration , when it is remembered that he had only specimens preserved in alcohol to deal with .
At the same time this condition of his specimens accounts for the incorrectness of his conclusions as to the very soft and decomposable glandular structures .
Leon Dufour ( " Memoires de l'lnstitut , " Tom. 14 , 1856 ) has also described and figured the coxal glands in Androctonus occitanus \#166 ; ( Scorpio Europceus ) the large yellow scorpion of southern France and Spain .
Dufour had the advantage of using freshly-killed specimens , but his account of the anatomy of this species appears to me to be , nevertheless , curiously inaccurate in many important particulars .
H e very properly does not consider the glandular caeca of the most anterior portion of the alimentary canal as " salivary glands " as did Newport , but recognises the identity of their structure with that of t e large glandular masses filling up the mesosoma which have been termed " hepatic , " and accordingly describes the " salivary glands " of Newport as the anterior or cephalothoracic lobes of the liver .
e , however , describes the pair of coxal glands as " salivary Ehrenberg .
The confusion of nomenclature among the Scorpions is very great .
arrlnL( ^ Mo\#153 ; tSbericht " 1861\gt ; 510\gt ; given the best systematic arrangement of the sub-genera .
100 Mr. E. R Lankester .
[ June 15r | glands , " and this , notwithstanding that he has accurately recognised the absence of any duct connecting them with the alimentary canal .
He figures such a duct , hut remarks in the text of his memoir , that these apparent ducts are really ligaments .
He further figures and describes the broad triangular offset from the anterior and inferior margin of the gland which appears to me to be in all probability its true duct , * and gives to this the name of " fleshy pedicle .
" .
'r 1 Dufour observed and figured something of the minute structure of the coxal ( his " salivary " ) gland .
He shows that its smooth white surface is marked by winding lines of a labyrinthine arrangement , 5 but erroneously attributes their t existence to a coiled tubular structure . .
\ My own observations on the minute structure of the coxal glands of the Scorpions dissected by me are briefly as follows : the three species-agreeing in essentials .
Each gland is a sac ; the labyrinthine markings seen on the surface being due to the existence of labyrinthine trabeculae which rise up from the inner surface of the sac , and break up its lumen into numerous narrow passages as is the case in the coxal glands of Limulus .
An injection of freshly precipitated lead chromate forced into the gland did not escape from it by any duct , but distended the triangular " pedicle , .
" which I consider as probably the duct , though I have as yet failed to find any pore corresponding to it on the outer surface of the coxa or of the sternum .
Coxal glands taken from freshly killed Scorpions and placed in absolute alcohol , and subsequently stained with picrocarmine or haematoxylin , and cut into sections in the usual manner , showed that the gland is a sac with its wall folded inwards , so as to form numerous trabeculae , clothed with a remarkable epithelium .
The cells of this epithelium are much larger than those of the coxal glands of Limulus , but agree with them in presenting a differentiation of the cortical substance of the cell .
Each cell of the epithelium of the scorpion 's coxal gland presents in optical section a complete cortical ring of bright dense-looking substance surrounding a transparent protoplasm , in the centre of which is the nucleus .
The dense cortical substance of each cell appears to be finely striated ; the striae radiating from the medullary substance towards the surface of the cell .
This striated structure recalls to mind the striated structure of the cells of the leech 's nephridium , and of the mammalian kidney .
The trabeculae on which these cells rest are cavernous , being filled with blood .
The blood spaces so formed are larger than the spaces * June 24 th,1882.\#151 ; I am indebted to the skill of my assistant , Mr. A. Q- .
Bourne , B.Sc. , for some complete series of sections through small Scorpions , the study of which has led me to doubt whether these glands have any duct .
Their exact nature and function require further investigation , with which I am engaged .
1882 .
] Position of Ganglia , Scorpions .
left between the projecting trabeculae .
The latter are the true uiumen " of the gland .
The structure of the central portion of the \#166 ; coxal gland of the Scorpions differs from that of its periphery , to which the previous description refers .
Conclusion.\#151 ; It does not seem possible to doubt that the coxal glands of the Scorpions and of Limulus are homologous structures .
Though no external opening has been found as yet , in either the one case or the other , it is possible that such an opening exists .
Though glands in a similar position ( at the bases of the limbs or jaws ) are found in other Arthropoda , there are none known which agree so closely in position and structure with either the coxal glands of Limulus , or of Scorpio , as these do with one another .
Possibly such coxal glands are in all cases the modified and isolated representatives of the complete series of tubular glands ( nephrida ) found at the base of each leg in the archaic Arthropod , ' Peripatus .
P.S.\#151 ; I may add that since writing the above , I have found a similar pair of glandular organs in a large South American Mygale , which I received from the Zoological Society on the day of its death , in the Insect House at Regent 's Park .
The coxal glands in Mygale are elongated and lobed as in Limulus .
They rest on the dorsolateral region of the entosternite .
VI .
" Note on the Differences in the Position of the Ganglia of the Ventral Nerve-cord in three Species of Scorpion .
" By E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Received May 25 , 1882 .
No one who is acquainted with the researches of George Newport can doubt the general accuracy of his description of the nervous system of an " Androctonus .
" Very probably the Scorpion which he made use of for his researches on the nervous system was Androctonus funestus , Ehr .
, the same which I have received in the living condition from North Africa .
The accuracy of Newport 's description in a very material point , and one which refers to a very obvious feature , has been called in question by Leon Dufour .
Dufour dissected a species closely allied to A. funestus , one which is little more than a small European variety of it , namely , A. occitanus .
Yet he gives an account of the disposition of the ganglia of the ventral nerve-cord , and of the innervation of the four pairs of pulmonary sacs , which is widely different from that of Newport .
I am able to confirm the general accuracy of Newport 's account by my dissections of A. funestus , and have been in much doubt as to

