2 .
" Electro-Physiological Researches."-7th Series .
By Signor C. Matteucci .
Communicated by W. R. Grove , Esq. , F.R.S. In this memoir , Prof. Matteucci , after recapitulating the results of his previous researches on electro-physiology , published in the Philosophical Transactions , proceeds to the relation of new experiments .
He first shows that nervous filaments made to conduct an electric current in a liquid are not capable , like metallic wires , of acting as electroids , and giving rise to electro-chemical decoimposition .
The solution employed was that of iodide of potassium ; the nerves , two large ones taken from a living animal , each of which was separately attached to the metallic extremities of a pile of fifteen couples .
No trace of decomposition followed ; and he concludes from hence , that the conductibility of nervous matter is due to the liquid part of the matter itself .
He then gives further experiments on the relative conductibility of muscles and nerves , with a view to ascertain whether , when a current was impelled through a mass of muscle , any part of the current might have passed through the nervous filaments spread through that muscle .
For this purpose he inserted the nerve of a galvanoscopic frog into a hole made in a piece of dead muscle , through which he then passed a very powerful current : no contraction followed in the galvanoscopic frog .
When muscles still retaining their irritability were substituted for the dead muscle , induced contractions occurred in the galvanoscopic frog during the passage of the current .
He concludes that when the poles of a pile of twenty-five or thirty elements are applied to the surface of the muscles of a living animal , the phenomena produced by the passage of the current must depend either on the direct action of the current on the muscular fibre , or on the indirect action or influence of the electric current transmitted by the muscular fibre to its own nervous filaments , or rather to the nervous force existing in those filaments .
Referring then to an experiment related in a preceding paper , in which the lower limbs of a frog , united to the spine only by the lumbar nerves , are placed astride two glasses containing water , with each foot immersed , and in which a current , after traversing the two limbs , and consequently the two nerves , in opposite directions , so modifies at length the excitability of the nerves , that , on opening the circuit , only the limb in which the current lias been passing inversely contracts , he shows that if in this state what may be called the ' inverse ' nerve be touched by a piece of muscle , although the circuit is continued , yet the limb contracts as though the circuit had been broken .
In fact , the muscle , by its greater conductibility , becomes traversed by the current in place of the nerve .
Again , if after the former part of the experiment has been performed , the portions of nerve which had hitherto been buried among the crural muscles be dissected out , it is easily seen that their excitability has not been affected like that of the lumbar nerves , because the current in place of traversing them has traversed only the crural muscles .
The nerve has had its excitability modified in only that part of its course in which , being laid bare and isolated , it has necessarily conducted the current .
M. Du Bois Reymond ( Conptes Pendus ) has related an experiment seeming to lead to the inference that section of the spinal marrow increases the excitability of the lumbar nerves , at least during a certain period of time .
In order to test the accuracy of this conclusion on so important a point , M. Matteucci institutes a number of very accurate experiments , in whict lie measures the excitability of the lumbar nerves after section of the spinal marrow , by means of the apparatus of Breguet , used and described by him in a former paper .
His first results show that " the contraction excited in the muscles of a frog , of which the spinal marrow has been divided from twelve to eighteen hours , is stronger than that obtained under the same circumstances from the muscles of a frog just killed , without having been previously subjected to any injury to its nervous system .
" But subsequent experiments have satisfied him that this result depends not on the separation from the spinal marrow , but rather on the repose in which the muscle has been permitted to remain ; for without division of the marrow , nearly the same force of contraction existed after the same interval of time .
I-le finds indeed that the only alteration which the excitability of a nerve undergoes by separation from the nervous centres , consists in its being more readily exhausted under the action of stimulants , the longer the period that has elapsed since its detachment .
The author then proceeds to relate the nature of the strict analogy existing between electricity and nervous force .
As electricity is developed under the influence of the nervous current in the organs of electrical fishes , so , as a converse of this phenomenon , electricity may develope the nervous force .
After adverting to the well-known analogy subsisting in every particular between the phenomena of the electrical organ and those of muscles , he adverts to the old experiment of passing a current through the muscles of the thighs of a living animal , the positive pole being placed now above , now below , so that it may be supposed that the current passes in the two cases in opposite directions as regards the nervous filaments distribu'ted in the muscles .
He then points out that the effects of a current directed downwards , in the direct course of the nerves , are a strong contraction of the muscle traversed , and also of the muscles of the leg below ; while the effect of a current in the opposite , or inverse direction , is pain , together with contractions less violent and always confined to the muscles traversed .
The contractions ( especially of the parts below ) indicate a current of nervous force propagated towards the muscles , while the pain indicates a current towards the nervous centre .
Now , bearing in mind that it has been proved by direct experiments that an electric current traversing a muscle never quits the muscular fibre to enter the nervous filaments , it seems clear that the phenomena just spoken of are exclusively owing to the influence exerted by the electricity passing through the muscles on the nervous force contained in the nerves ; and also that this nervous force acts peripherad or centrad according to the direction of the electric current which excites it .
The great importance of the conclusions drawn from these experiments consists in this , that they lead to the same law which establishes the analogy between nervous force and the electrical discharge of fishes .
The paper concludes with some further considerations intended to confirm this law .

