546 Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
[ The figures were drawn by the late Edwin Wilson , of Cambridge .
] Fig. 1.\#151 ; Giant cells referred to on p. 536 .
[ This section also passed through the myometrial gland , and it was intended that the cells of this gland should be shown on the figure , but , unfortunately , owing to inability to supervise the drawing , as a result of the outbreak of war , and the subsequent death of the artist , the figure was not completed .
] Fig 2.\#151 ; Experimentally produced Placenta\#151 ; Section of Uterus , showing Outgrowing Lobe of Mucosa , where small piece has been removed by operation .
( Low power .
) Fig. 3.\#151 ; Experimentally produced Placenta\#151 ; Connective Tissue forming Decidual Cells which enclose Blood Capillaries .
( Same section as fig. 2 , more highly magnified .
) Fig. 4.\#151 ; Experimentally produced Placenta\#151 ; Part of Section of Uterus , which has been slit open , showing Growth of Placental Tissue in upper portion of section .
( Low power .
) Fig. 5.\#151 ; Experimentally produced Placenta ( same section as fig. 4 , more highly magnified)\#151 ; Plexus of Blood-vessels below the Surface of the Mucosa .
On the Post-(Estrous Changes occurring in the Generative Organs and Mammary Glands of the Non-Pregnant Dog .
By F. H. A. Marshall , Sc. D. , and E. T. Halnan , M.A. , 2nd Lieut. , B.F.A. ( Communicated by J. Barcroft , F.R.S. Received November 24 , 1916 .
) i [ Plates 24-26 .
] The oestrous cycle in animals which come " on heat " at relatively infrequent intervals ( i.e. monoestrous animals ) has been divided by Heap into the following four periods :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Anoestrum ( period of rest ) .
( 2 ) Pro-cestrum ( periods of growth and destruction ) .
( 3 ) ( Estrus ( period of desire ) .
( 4 ) Metcestrum ( period of recuperation , occurring only in the absence of pregnancy ) .
This scheme of classification was adopted by Marshall and Jolly in describing the changes occurring in the generative organs of the Bitch .
It has been shown that ovulation normally takes place during cestrus at or near the termination of the sanguineous discharge which characterises the pro-cestrum .
This observation has since been confirmed by Keller .
Ovulation occurs spontaneously in bitches , the additional stimulus of coitus being unnecessary .
Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , of Non-Pregnant Dog .
547 In the Bitch , as in all mammals , ovulation is followed by the formation of the corpus luteum .
This structure is usually described as degenerating within a comparatively short period if pregnancy does not supervene after coitus ( corpus luteum spurium ) , but remaining persistent throughout the whole or greater part of gestation when this condition follows ( corpus luteum verum ) .
According to Ancel and Bouin , however , in the Babbit , in which ovulation takes place normally as a result of coitus ( Heap ) , there apparently is only one kind of corpus luteum ( the corpus luteum verum ) , which structure can be induced to form experimentally in the absence of pregnancy by employing vasectomised males .
Ancel and Bouin have shown that , under such circumstances , ( condition of pseudo-pregnancy ) , * the uterus undergoes glandular development and vascularisation , while the tissue of the mammary glands proliferates rapidly , the hypertrophy continuing until about the 15th day , when the corpora lutea begin to degenerate .
O'Donoghue and others have confirmed these results for the mammary gland .
The development of the mammary tissue in the later part of ( true ) pregnancy is ascribed by Ancel and Bouin to the influence of the myometrial gland , but Hammond has shown that it is far more likely to be due to the continued influence of the corpora lutea , depending upon the presence of the foetus .
According to this observer , the corpora lutea do not degenerate in the later part of pregnancy , and , consequently , the corpora lutea of pseudo-pregnancy in the rabbit are comparable to the corpora lutea spuria of most other mammals , although it would seem probable that ( when produced ) they persist for a longer time , and exert a greater influence than in those polycestrous animals which ovulate spontaneously .
In the Marsupial Cat ( .Dasyurus ) there is only one kind of discharged follicle , the corpus luteum of pregnancy or pseudo-pregnancy , and the changes which occur in the mammary glands as a result of luteal influence are identical , irrespectively of whether gestation supervenes or not ( Hill and O'Donoghue ) .
In polycestrous animals the corpus luteum spurium usually degenerates after a short period , so as to make way for the maturation of new follicles and the process of ovulation at the frequently recurring cestrous periods .
Otherwise , the ripening follicles degenerate under the influence of the corpus luteum .
Sands has described follicular atrophy in widening circles around the fully developed corpus luteum of Dasyurus .
The more rapid degeneration of the corpus luteum spurium has probably taken place in * The term " pseudo-pregnancy , " to describe the experimentally produced condition , was first used by Hammond and Marshall , who confirmed Ancel and Bouin 's descriptions of the uterine changes occurring under luteal influence in the Babbit .
Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
association with the acquirement of the polycestrous habit , since it would be detrimental to fecundity if these structures persisted for as long a time as corpora lutea of pregnancy .
It is equally evident , however , that in monoestrous animals , such as the Dog , the persistence of the corpus luteum spurium over a considerable period would not exercise the same prejudicial effects as in polyoestrous animals .
It became of interest therefore to ascertain the duration of the corpus luteum spurium in the Dog , and to discover whether , if this organ persists for a longer period than in polyoestrous animals , the continuance is associated with uterine and mammary development comparable to what occurs in the pseudo-pregnant Eabbit and in the Marsupial Cat. Accordingly we took a number of bitches ( mostly virgins ) which were not permitted to become pregnant , and killed them at varying intervals after " heat , " so as to acquire a series of stages showing different degrees of development in the generative organs and mammary glands .
The animals were kept under observation for prolonged periods , and there could be no doubt about the occurrence of the " heat " periods from which the stages of development were dated , for in each case there was a very definite sanguineous discharge of normal duration .
Certain of the bitches , however , had at previous times shown very slight indications of heat , as manifested by congestion of the vulva accompanied by a mucous discharge .
In view of these observations , little or no importance should be attached to the transitory appearances suggestive of heat which have been recorded as occurring after the injection of ovarian extracts* ( Marshall and Joily ) .
The following are the records of the cases dealt with in the present investigation:\#151 ; ( 1 ) A half-bred Whippet ( a virgin ) began to show pro-oestrous bleeding from the vaginal opening on May 17 .
It stopped bleeding on May 31 .
On June 2 it was killed , and the generative organs and portions of tissue from the mammary region were preserved .
The right ovary contained three discharged follicles , and the left ovary two .
Sections through the discharged follicles showed that they were of very recent origin , ovulation having taken place probably within the previous two days .
The corpora lutea were not organised , the ingrowth of connective tissue from the follicular wall was relatively slight , the cavity was only very partially and irregularly filled in , * In a former investigation by Carmichael and Marshall , experiments with commercial ovarian extracts were entirely negative .
The transplantation experiments by Marshall and Jolly , upon which the views put forward were mainly based , belong to a different category , for in these cases heat of normal duration and character occurred .
Transient signs of heat were never observed after ovariotomy had been performed .
Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , of Non-Pregnant Dog .
549 and the point of rupture was clearly visible .
In the cavities there were many signs of recent hemorrhage , for red corpuscles and blood pigment were abundant .
Ihe cells destined to contain lutein had already undergone some hypertrophy , while connective-tissue cells and small blood-vessels had grown inwards from the surrounding tissue .
Sections through the uterus showed extravasated blood in considerable quantity , lying , for the most part , a little below the surface epithelium ( cf. Marshall and Jolly , and Keller ) .
There was no clear evidence of destruction of epithelium having occurred , but the duration and extent of external bleeding on the preceding days is proof of a considerable discharge of blood having taken place from the mucosa into the lumen of the uterus .
The superficial epithelium was cubical ; that of the crypts opening directly into the lumen of the uterus was more columnar and showed evidence of mitosis .
The glands situated in the deeper portion of the stroma were also lined by a more .
or less columnar epithelium .
They were slightly more numerous than in the pro-cestrous stage ( described by Marshall and Jolly , and Keller ) , and their lumina were very widely open .
The stroma was denser than during the pro-oestrum .
The mammary gland tissue was limited almost entirely to a few ducts in the neighbourhood of the nipple , and there was no evidence of proliferation taking place in such mammary tissue as was present .
( 2 ) A rough-haired Terrier ( a virgin ) began to show pro-oestrous bleeding from the vaginal opening on May 21 .
Bleeding continued until June 2 , when it seemed to have stopped .
Slight bleeding was , however , resumed next day and continued until June 6 , when it finally ceased .
The bitch was killed on June 10 , when her organs were preserved .
Each ovary contained four organised corpora lutea , which may have been about a week old .
Ihe prolonged continuance of slight bleeding from the vulva seemed to suggest that in this case oestrus had commenced and ovulation taken place before the discharge had quite ceased .
Otherwise the pro-oestrum had been of abnormal duration .
The degree of development of the corpora lutea supported the first suggestion , for , excepting for the fact that the cavities were not entirely filled in , these organs were fully formed .
They occupied a large part of the ovary , and were well vascularised .
The sections through the uterus showed a slight increase in the number of glands in the deeper portion of the stroma , as compared with the stage described above .
The epithelium lining the crypts and glands was throughout columnar rather than cubical , the nuclei being situated in the basal portions of the cells .
The lumina of the glands were not so widely open as in the preceding stage .
The connective tissue was fairly dense , but somewhat Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
less so in the central and deeper portions of the stroma .
There was no longer any sign of haemorrhage , and no pigment was discernible .
The mammary tissue showed very definite growth , being spread over a considerable area , and not merely in the immediate neighbourhood of the nipple .
The lobes were constituted by numerous mammary acini separated by connective tissue .
There was every indication of rapid development proceeding .
( 3 ) A multiparous brindled Terrier underwent pro-cestrous bleeding from May 15 until May 23 .
It was killed on June 2 , or ten days later .
The right ovary contained three or four corpora lutea , and the left ovary three corpora lutea .
Sections of one ovary showed that the corpora lutea were fully developed and highly vascularised .
The uterus was also highly vascular , the blood being contained within capillaries situated in the middle portion of the stroma and between the glands .
The latter were very numerous , especially in the peripheral region of the stroma , where there was little intervening connective tissue .
They were lined by a columnar epithelium ( fig. 2 ) .
The mammary tissue , as was to be expected , was well developed , but the animal being a multiparous one was unsuitable for purposes of comparison with virgins in which the gland tissue showed different degrees of growth .
( 4 ) A Terrier bitch ( a virgin ) experienced pro-oestrous bleeding from April 29 until May 7 .
Very slight bleeding continued until May 12 .
The bitch was killed on June 2 .
The right ovary contained six corpora lutea and the left ovary four .
Each ovary was of relatively large size .
Sections showed that the ovaries consisted mainly of corpora lutea , which appeared to have reached their full development .
The luteal cells were much hypertrophied .
The uterine mucous membrane contained vast numbers of glands , but these were for the most part smaller and had a lesser diameter than in the stages described above .
The peripheral part of the mucosa was especially packed with glands , but trabecula } of stroma tissue divided the glandular elements in the more central part of the mucous membrane .
The epithelium surrounding tha glands was still markedly columnar .
Their lumina almost invariably contained a colloidal substance which stained red with eosin .
There was a very considerable capillary development throughout the connective tissue .
The mammary tissue at this stage had developed appreciably .
There was a well-marked growth ( in some places quite dense ) for about f inch around each nipple .
Sections showed secretory acini^in a further stage of development , and cellular proliferation was proceeding .
The intermammary tissue was highly vascular , and there was a large quantity of fat present ( fig. 6 ) .
Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , Dog .
551 ( 5 ) A Fox Teiriei ( a virgin ) experienced pro-cestrous bleeding from February 2 to February 9 and was killed on March 11 , or 31 days after bleeding ceased .
Both ovaries appeared to be composed very largely of luteal tissue .
It was subsequently found that the right ovary contained two corpora lutea and the left ovary three .
Sections showed that the corpora lutea were still well vascularised but beginning to undergo very slight retrogression .
The luteal cells were much hypertrophied but vacuoles were beginning to appear in some parts of the tissue .
The uterus also showed slight evidence of retrogressive changes having set in .
The crypts and glands were smaller .
The epithelium lining them was less often columnar and in places was almost or quite cubical .
The gland lumina frequently contained a colloidal substance , and in ' the case of some glands there were appearances which suggested a recent desquamation of epithelial cells .
Vessels were abundant in the interglandular tissue , but the capillary development was less noticeable than in the preceding stage .
The muscular walls , however , showed little or no evidence of having undergone any change .
The development of mammary tissue was more prominent than in the preceding stage , and active proliferation was apparently still proceeding .
Large numbers of acini had been formed ( figs. 5 and 7 ) .
No fat was present in the intermammary tissue , but this was probably mainly a result of the animal 's condition .
The tissue was not markedly vascular , but vessels could be distinctly seen .
( 6 ) A Fox Terrier ( multiparous ) experienced pro-cestrous bleeding from August 4 till August 14 and was killed on September 21 , or 38 days later .
Superficial examination showed that the right ovary contained two corpora lutea and the left ovary three .
The ovaries unfortunately were not preserved , so that it is not possible to describe the histology of the luteal tissue .
Sections through the uterus presented several differences from those of the preceding stage .
The interglandular connective tissue constituted the greater part of the area of the stroma , the glands being both fewer and smaller in diameter .
Small capillaries containing red corpuscles were numerous in the stroma .
The glands throughout were lined by cubical epithelium , the nuclei being placed centrally and occupying about two-thirds of each cell as seen in section .
The gland lumina contained colloidal substance , and here and there were portions of what were probably remains of epithelial cells ( fig. 3 ) .
The bitch being multiparous , the mammary tissues were well developed and consequently unsuitable for comparison with the stages described above .
No secretion or fluid oould be expressed from the nipples .
( 7 ) A long-haired Terrier ( multiparous ) experienced pro-cestrous bleeding 3 a 2 Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
from May 29 to June 8 , when bleeding appeared to have stopped .
A very slight sanguineous discharge was , however , observed on June 10,11,12 , and 13 .
The bitch was killed on July 26 , 48 days after June 8 , which probably marked the end of the pro-cestrum , or 43 days after June 13 , when all signs of bleeding finally ceased .
Fluid could be expressed from the nipples , the mammary glands being well developed .
The right ovary was seen to contain at least two corpora lutea .
The left ovary contained three corpora lutea , which occupied a large part of the organ .
Sections showed that the luteal cells were still large but much vacuolated , and undergoing degeneration , but the nuclei were very distinct .
The uterus presented a stage of .
retrogression considerably more advanced than the previous stage .
The epithelium lining the glands in some parts ( especially in the deeper parts of the mucosa ) had undergone almost complete destruction , that which was left was cubical and never columnar .
The cavities of some of the glands contained colloid and what were probably the remains of desquamated epithelial cells .
The changes which had taken place had affected the blood supply , for many of the capillaries had broken down , and there were corpuscles freely extravasated in the stroma ( fig. 4 ) .
The sections showed a resemblance to the late pseudo-pregnant stage described by Hill and O'Donoghue for Dasyurus .
Apart from the breaking-down of vessels and the presence of extravasated blood in the stroma , the uterus showed no resemblance to the pro-cestrous uterus , the condition of the glands being very different ; for , whereas the glandular epithelium of the pseudo-pregnant uterus at this stage is degenerate , or else new and attenuated , that of the pro-cestrous uterus is columnar .
Moreover , in the sections of the pseudo-pregnant uterus there was no evidence of blood passing into the uterine cavity , and there had been no external bleeding from the vaginal opening of this bitch before killing .
Sections through the mammary glands showed that these were in a state of activity , the alveoli containing a quantity of fluid , but we failed to identify fat by staining with Sudan III .
Since the bitcli was multiparous the sections were unsuitable for comparison with those of the virgin animals described above , but it is significant to note that the glands must have undergone growth in order to be in a condition of secretory activity .
( 8 ) This was a Fox Terrier , which was apparently a virgin .
It had probably been " on heat " at least once , but during the three months during which it was under observation , " heat " had not occurred .
The ovaries contained numerous developing follicles but no luteal tissue .
The uterus was small , the mucosa relatively thin and with few glands or vessels .
The glands present were very small and lined by a cubical epithelium .
The Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , of Non-Pregnant Dog .
553 mammary tissue was chiefly represented by ducts in the neighbourhood of the nipple .
It is necessary to assume that the uterine glands undergo considerable increase in size and number with the approach of the pro-oestrum , for at this period they are well represented and lined by a columnar epithelium ( % 1)The changes which occur in the cestrous cycle of the Dog were first briefly described by Betterer , whose account was afterwards amplified and to a great extent confirmed by Marshall and Jolly .
The postcestrous changes , however ( excepting for the first few days after " heat " ) , were not recorded , it being supposed that the uterus rapidly resumed the resting condition .
The postoestrous glandular hyperplasia was first described by Keller , who has supplied a very careful account of the changes in the uterus from the pro-oestrum onwards until rest .
This investigator obtained a series of stages until the eleventh week by removing portions of the uterine wall from living bitches at varying intervals and then allowing the cycle to continue .
In this way he procured a succession of stages showing the growth and increase in the glands and the subsequent retrogressive changes , the occurrence of which is confirmed in the present paper .
Keller 's records , obtained in the way described , were supplemented from some further material obtained promiscuously .
Keller gives an account of the changes undergone by the epithelium of the crypts and glands , and records the existence of a secretion within their lumina during the " riickbildung " or retrogressive stage .
Certain of Keller 's stages , however , were taken at somewhat long intervals , and this may account for his having missed altogether the extravasation stage represented in Case 7 .
The paper is written with especial reference to the existence of endometritis in the human uterus .
The part played by the corpus luteum in relation to the changes and their physiological significance are not considered , and there is no record of the synchronous processes undergone by the mammary tissue .
The changes in the uterine glands and stroma tissue of the pseudopregnant dog are in a general way very similar to those of the marsupial as described by Hill and O'Donoghue .
These authors point out that the processes which occur in the pseudo-pregnant marsupial are essentially identical with those which take place in the pregnant animal .
A similar statement can be made about the Dog , as is shown by comparing Duval 's description and figures of the uterine mucosa at different stages of pregnancy .
The extent of the glandular development ( the object of which is to help to provide nourishment from the secretion produced for the growing embryos Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
when present ) is probably not so great in the pseudo-pregnant animal , but is otherwise of the same general character .
Ancel and Bouin were the first to show that the uterus undergoes active changes in response to experimentally produced corpora lutea in the pseudo-pregnant rabbit .
They describe glandular hypertrophy and increased vascularisation , followed by retrogression .
The occurrence of these changes was confirmed by Hammond and Marshall , who have pointed out their essential similarity with the pseudo-pregnancy processes in the uterus of the Marsupial Cat ( Dasyurus ) , as recorded by Hill and O'Donoghue .
Hammond and Marshall show further ( what is a corollary of the last statement ) that these changes in Dasyurus are not comparable to the pro-oestrous phenomena of the Eutheria generally , as Hill and O'Donoghue supposed them to be.* Neither Ancel and Bouin , nor Hill and O'Donoghue , knew of Keller 's work on the Bitch ( confirmed and extended in the present paper ) , and it is left to us to point out the parallelism between the postcestrous processes in the three mammals in which they have been described .
Ancel and Bouin , and other investigators , have shown that in the Babbit the postoestrous uterine development only takes place in the presence of corpora lutea , which can be induced to form , without supervention of pregnancy , by employing vasectomised males ( i.e. under a condition of experimentally induced pseudo-pregnancy ) .
Moreover , the parallel series of characteristic changes both in Dasyurus and in the Dog are always associated with the development and subsequent retrogression of the corpora lutea.'f* There can be little doubt , therefore , that the corpus luteum is an essential factor in the hyperplasia of the uterine glands and other correlated changes in these animals , just as it is in the Babbit .
To prove this definitely in the case of the Dog , it would be necessary to destroy the luteal tissue while leaving the rest of the ovaries , but to perform this operation upon the ovaries lying in situ in the body was , in our judgment , impracticable .
The question arises as to whether there is any phase in the menstrual cycle of Man which corresponds to the final or destruction stage of the pseudo-pregnant period of the Dog .
Bryce and Teacher and other authors * In the paper referred to we inadvertently omitted to note that in the scheme of comparison drawn up by Hill and O'Donoghue to describe the cycle of changes in the Marsupial and in the Eutherian the terminology is that of Heap , who was the first to deal systematically with the phases of the oestrous cycle .
Hill and O'Donoghue , however , are alone responsible for identifying the uterine degenerative changes of the pseudo-pregnant Dasyurus with the pro-oestrous changes of the Eutherian . .
t According to Moreaux , the presence of corpora lutea in the Rabbit 's ovaries is associated with an excretory phase on the part of the uterine glands .
Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , of Non-Pregnant Dog .
555 have shown that ovulation , when it occurs in Man , probably takes place shortly after the menstrual period is over .
It is usually stated ( cf. Halliburtons 'Handbook of Physiology ' ) that the corpus luteum spurium in Man is in a condition of retrogession at the end of one month , being smaller then than after a period of three weeks .
It has been established by Heap and other investigators that menstruation in the Primates is the homologue of the pro-oestrum in the lower Mammalia .
Nevertheless , it seems possible , in the light of the facts described in this paper , that the menstrual cycle is a process of greater complexity than most authorities have supposed , and that the destruction stage corresponds partly to the later portion of the pseudo-pregnant period of the Dog , when the corpus luteum no longer exerts an anabolic influence upon the reproductive organs .
If this surmise is correct , it helps to reconcile the two seemingly divergent views as to the homologous stages of the cycle , namely , the view of Heap , according to whom the pro-oestrum and menstruation are identical ( a view taken in previous papers by Marshall ) , and the theory put forward by Beard , and adopted in more recent publications by Grosser , Hitschmann and Adler , and Hill and O'Donoghue , according to whom the menstrual process represents the removal of a preparation made for a fertilised ovum which failed to arrive , or a degeneration of uterine tissue which was unable to fulfil its purpose .
In this connection it is interesting to note that , according to Hitschmann and Adler , the premenstrual uterus in Man undergoes changes which are similar in character to those observed in the pregnant uterus .
It seems possible , therefore , to regard menstruation in Man as representing pseudo-pregnant destruction as well as pro-oestrous degeneration , owing to the whole cycle of changes having been compressed into one month .
Indeed , unless some such explanation as this be adopted , one must suppose that the processes of pseudo-pregnancy are unrepresented in the menstrual cycle , and that the corpus luteum spurium in the Primates exerts little or no influence .
Since the retrogressive changes in the uterus of Dasyurus , the Babbit and the Dog in the later part of pseudo-pregnancy are correlated with the degeneration of the so-called corpus luteum spurium , it seems reasonable to suppose that the retrogression of the corpus luteum verum at the close of gestation may be one of the factors involved in those destructive changes which are associated with parturition .
It has been pointed out that the comparatively long persistence of the corpora lutea spuria and their influence upon the uterus and mammary glands in bitches are probably associated directly with the monoestrous habit .
In most polycestrous animals the corpus luteum is believed to Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
degenerate after a shorter period .
This statement is certainly correct for some species , but the matter is one which requires extended study on comparative lines .
The similarity between the developmental progress of the mammary tissue occurring in the postoestrous non-pregnant Dog and that taking place under experimental conditions in the pseudo-pregnant Eabbit is evidence that the mammary development , like the uterine development , is dependent in both animals upon the influence of luteal tissue .
It should , however , be made clear that in the cases under observation the mammary growth was limited , and that in pregnancy some further factor must come into play to complete the development .
The probable factor concerned in the case of the pregnant rabbit is the subject of a communication by Hammond .
In another paper Hammond and Hawk have remarked on the tendency for the milk record of a cow to fall at about the time of oestrus , and it seems possible that such periodic variation in milk secretion may depend partly upon an anabolic influence on the part of the corpus luteum if the development of this organ in the Dog , the Eabbit , and Dasyw'us is correlated with a building up of mammary isssue , rather than with the actual secretion of milk .
Furthermore , it is known that in the Sheep , which , like the Cow , is polyoestrous , the corpus luteum spurium attains its maximum development very rapidly , being soon succeeded by degenerative changes , so that such influence as this organ may possess upon the uterus and mammary glands must be of very brief duration .
Lastly , reference may again be made to the observations recorded by Heap , Noel Paton , Blair Bell , and others of non-pregnant bitches ( in some cases virgins ) secreting milk several weeks after oestrus , and frequently at about the time when they would have given birth had they been pregnant .
Mr. F. Eeynolds , of Devizes , has informed us that he also has observed instances of the same phenomenon , and we have reason to believe that such cases among bitches are far commoner than is ordinarily known .
They are to be explained as following upon an-increase in certain individuals in the activity of the corpora lutea .
Steinach and Athias have recorded mammary growth as a result of transplanting ovaries into previously castrated male guinea-pigs , but to what precise ovarian elements the influence is to be attributed has not been made clear .
Steinach states that the mammary glands reached a degree of development comparable to that of pregnant females , and sufficient to admit of the manufacture of milk and suckling of young , fat globules being found in the secreted fluid .
Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , of Non-Pregnant .
557 The uterus and mammary glands of the non-pregnant Bitch undergo pronounced postcestrous development under the influence of the corpora lutea , there being a definite pseudo-pregnant period .
Retrogressive changes do not set in with any of these organs until about 30 days after ovulation , and in the case of the mammary glands a somewhat later period .
The developmental changes are of a similar kind to those taking place during pregnancy , but do not reach the same degree of development .
The entire series of changes are physiologically homologous with the changes shown by the uterus and mammary glands of the pseudo-pregnant Rabbit and Marsupial Cat. The relatively long persistence of the corpora lutea in the Bitch is probably correlated with the moncestrous habit .
This persistence , which is possibly greater in some individuals than in others , elucidates the not uncommon phenomenon of bitches which had not been impregnated secreting milk at or near the end of the pseudo-pregnant period .
The changes which occur in the generative organs and mammary glands after oestrus are now brought into relation with the rest of the oestrous cycle , and the complete cycle in the Bitch may be summarised in the following scheme:\#151 ; The terms pro-oestrum , oestrus , and anoestrum are those originally proposed by Heap , and represent the periods so described by him .
The first part of the anoestrum is generally occupied by the nursing or lactation period , but iu the case of animals which have experienced pseudo-pregnant conditions the lactation period is usually only very imperfectly represented .
The metoestrous period must now be regarded as unrepresented in the Bitch .
It exists in animals which do not experience pseudo-pregnancy ( e.g. in those rabbits in which corpora lutea are not formed after oestrus ) .
The work was carried out at the School of Agriculture and Field Laboratories , Cambridge .
The expenses were defrayed largely by a grant Conclusions .
Pro-oestrum CEstrus Anoestrum Dr. F. H. A. Marshall and Mr. E. T. Hainan .
from the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries out of funds placed at their disposal by the Development Commissioners .
[ Added June 6 , 1917.\#151 ; Leo Loeb states that there is a definite cycle in the non-pregnant Guinea-pig for the mammary gland , and that it corresponds with the ovarian and uterine cycles .
The gland tissue proliferates when a new ovulation is imminent or in the presence of corpora lntea .
Extirpation of the corpora lutea was followed by an inhibitory effect .
Pearl has suggested that the corpus luteum is one of the chief agents in maintaining the female secondary characters , since a cow began to assume the characters of the male upon ceasing to ovulate , although the germinal and interstitial tissue of the ovaries remained normal .
He states also that the corpus luteum has an inhibitory effect upon ovulation , this conclusion being based partly upon the effects of injecting luteal extract into fowls .
] REFERENCES .
Ancel and Bouin , " Sir les Fonctions du Corps Jaune Gestatif , " ' Journ. Physiol , et Path .
G6n .
, ' vol. 12 ( 1910 ) and vol. 13 ( 1911 ) .
Athias , ' L'Activite Sccrotoire de la Gland Mammaire Hyperplasiee , " ' C. R. de la Soc. de Biol. , ' vol. 78 ( 1915 ) .
Athias , " Sir le Determinisme de l'Hyperplasie de la Glande Mammaire , etc , , " 'C .
R. de la Soc. de Biol. , ' vol. 79 ( 1916 ) .
Beard , The Span of Gestation and the Cause of Birth , ' Jena , 1897 .
Bell , Blair , ' The Sex Complex , ' London , 1916 .
Bryce and Teacher , 'Contributions to the Study of the Early Development and Imbedding of the Human Ovum , ' Glasgow , 1908 .
Carmichael and Marshall , " The Correlation of the Ovarian and Uterine Functions , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 79 ( 1907 ) .
Grosser , " The Development of the Egg Membranes and the Placenta : Menstruation " : Keibel and Mall 's 'Human Embryology , ' London , 1910 .
Hammond , " On the Causes Responsible for the Developmental Progress of the Mammary Glands in the Rabbit during the Latter Part of Pregnancy , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , this vol. , supra .
Hammond and Hawk , " Studies in Milk Secretion , " 'Journ .
Agric .
Science , ' vol. 8 ( 1917 ) .
Hammond and Marshall , " The Functional Correlation between the Ovaries , Uterus , and Mammary Glands in the Rabbit , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 ( 1914 ) .
Heap , " The Sexual Season of Mammals , " 'Quart .
Journ. Mic .
Science , ' vol. 44 ( 1900 ) .
Heap , " Ovulation and Degeneration of Ova in the Rabbit , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 76 , ( 1905 ) .
Heap , " The Source of the Stimulus which Causes the Development of the Mammary Gland , etc. , " ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 34 ( 1906 ) .
Hill and O'Donoghue , " The Reproductive Cycle in the Marsupial , Dasyurus , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Science , ' vol. 59 ( 1915 ) .
Hitschmann and Adler , " DerBau der Uteruschleimhaut des Geschlectsreifen Weibes , " etc. , ' Monatsschr .
f. Geb .
u. Gyniik .
, ' vol. 27 ( 1908 ) .
Keller , " Uber den Bau des Endometriums beim Hunde , " ' Anat .
Hefte , ' vol. 118 ( 1909 ) .
Loeb , " The Cyclic Changes in the Mammary Gland under Normal and Pathological MarshjaJL \amp ; Halnxm , Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , Hnth , LithT L an don .
Hutdi , L it.h ^'London , Marshall l Roy .
Soc. Proc. Byol .
89 , PL .
26 .
Hxit.h.Lit/ h^ Ton don \#166 ; Changes in Generative Organs , etc. , of Non-Pregnant Dog .
Cha"geS " fte Non-Pre\#171 ; " " t Guinea-pig , " ' Journ. of Exper .
" '.Trad'S , 1'^t0 " \lt ; " \#171 ; \#171 ; *\#187 ; .* Moreaux , " Recherches sir la Morphologie et la Fonction Glandulaire de 1-Epithelium de la Trompe Uterine , " ' Arch , de Anat .
Micr./ vol 14 O'Donoghue , " The Artificial Production of Corpora Lutea and their Relation to the Mammaiy Gland/ Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' 'Journ .
of Physiol./ vol. 46 ( 1913 ) .
Paton , Noel , The Nervous and Chemical Regulators of Metabolism/ London , 1913 .
Pearl , Data on the Eelation of the Corpus Luteum to Primary and Secondary Sex Characters , Technical Supplement of the Urologic and Cutaneous Review/ vol. 4 , ( 1916 ) .
Retterer , " Sir les Modifications de la Muqueuse Uterine de l'Epoque de Rut"'C R de Soc. de Biol./ vol. 4 ( 1892 ) .
Sands , " The Corpus Luteum of Dasyurus 'Proc .
Linnean Soc. of New South Wales/ vol. 28 ( 1903 ) .
Schil , 'Recherches sir la Gland Mammaire/ Nancy , 1912 .
Steinach , " Feminierung von Mannchen und Maskulierung von Weibchen " ' Zeit f Physiol./ vol. 27 ( 1913 ) .
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
( The figures were drawn by Mr. Parker , of the Cambridge University Press .
) Plate 1 .
Section through pro-cestrous uterine stroma ( high power ) .
The figure represents a portion of the deeper part of the stroma where extravasated blood corpuscles wTere not present .
In the more superficial part underlying the surface epithelium such corpuscles were abundant .
The uterine glands show a high columnar epithelium .
Fig. 2 .
Section through uterine stroma of Bitch No. 3 ( high power ) .
The glands are very well developed and closely packed , there being comparatively little intervening connective tissue .
The glandular epithelium is columnar .
Bloodvessels are fairly numerous .
Plate 2 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Section through uterine stroma of Bitch No. 6 ( high power ) .
The glands have undergone a change .
The epithelium is now usually cubical .
The lumina contain colloid and sometimes what appear to be desquamated epithelial cells .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Section through uterine mucosa of Bitch No. 7 ( low power ) .
The glands are for the most part in a state of degeneration .
Their lumina contain colloid , together with the remains of epithelial cells .
Extravasated blood is present in the stroma .
Plate 3 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Section through mammary tissue of Bitch No. 5 ( high power ) , showing alveoli .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Microphotograph ( low power ) of section through mammary tissue of Bitch No. 4 , showing ducts , alveoli , and a quantity of adipose tissue .
Fig- 7.\#151 ; Microphotograph ( low power ) of section through mammary tissue of Bitch No. 5 , showing numerous alveoli undergoing proliferation .
Some ducts are also shown .

