VI .
An Account of some Stones said to have fallen on the Earth in France ; and of a Lump of native Iron , said ta have fallen in India .
By the Right Hon. Charles Greville , F. R. S. Read January 27 , i8o0 .
THE experiments and observations made by EDWARD HOWARD , Esq. on certain stony and metalline substances said to have fallen on the earth , and the accurate description which the Count de BOURNON has given of those substances , have , in my opinion , fully established the following fact , namely , that a number of stones asserted to have fallen under similar circumstances , have precisely the same characters .
The stones from Benares , that from Yorkshire , that from Sienna , and that from Bohemia , were the whole which had then been seen in England .
They all contained pyrites of a peculiar character : they all had a coating of black oxide of iron : they all contained an alloy of iron and nickel ; and the earths which served to them as a sort of connecting medium , corresponded in their nature , and nearly in their proportions .
Since the publication of Mr. HOWARD 's and Count de BOURN ON'S observations , I have received from France three additional specimens .
Monsieur ST .
AMAND very obligingly divided with me a specimen he had broken from a stone of about 15 inches diameter , preserved in the Museum of Bourdeaux , which stone fell near Roqueford , in the Lands , on the eoth August , 1789 , during the explosion of a meteor ; it broke through the roof of a cottage , and killed a herdsman and some cattle .
M. ST .
AMAND also gave me part of a stone he had preserved in his collection ever since the year 1790 , when a shower of stones , weighing from I an ounce to 15 and 25 pounds each , fell in the parishes of Grange and Creon , and also in the parish of Juliac , in Armagnac ; which fact was , at the time , verified by DUBY , Mayor of Armile , and published by BERTHOLON , in the Journal des Sciences utiles de Montpellier , in the year 179o .
The third specimen , I owe to the Marquis de DREE ; it.is a fragment , broken from a stone of 22 pounds weight , which fell near the village Salles , not far from Villefranche in Burgundy , on the atth of March , 1798 ; this was also accompanied by a me teor .
I content myself with the mere recital of the facts , in confirmation of the observations presented to the Society , as these three additional specimens have precisely the same characters , texture , and appearance , as the others in my collection ; and are scarcely , by the eye , to be distinguished from them .
I should not , perhaps , have troubled the Society with this account , as my friend the Marquis de DREE , whose knowledge in mineralogy peculiarly qualifies him to investigate these subjects , has given me hopes of seeing his observations on them published ; but a new evidence has lately fallen into my hands , and is the only one I have met with that ascertains the origin of native iron , which , from analysis , had been suspected to have a common origin with the stones fallen on the earth .
Conversing with Colonel KIRKPATRICK , whose researches have embraced both the literature and politics of India , and whose talents had placed him in very important situations in various parts of India , I inquired whether he had ever heard of any instances similar to the explosion of the meteor at Benares in 1798 .
He told me , he could not recollect having heard or read of any other instance , excepting one in the Memoirs written by the Emperor JEIIANGIRE , and of that he did not recollect the particulars .
A few days after , having found the passage in the original Persian , he was so obliging as to translate it .
I consider it as an authentic fact ; for the Emperor JEHANGIRE was not a prince on whom his courtiers would idly venture to impose ; and there can be little probability that an Aumil of a district should invent such a story , or be able to produce a substance apparently like iron , but which , on trial , differed from manufactured iron .
Colonel KIRKPATRICK'S translation , I have obtained his leave to communicate , with his attestation , to the Royal Society .
Extractfrom the Memoirs of the Emperor Jehangire , written ( in Persian ) by himself , and translated by Colonel Kirkpatrick .
A. H. 1030 , or i6tb year of the reign.--The following is among the extraordinary occurrences of this period .
Early on the 3oth of Furverdeen , of the present year , * and in the Eastern quarter , Cof the heavensD there arose in one of the villages of the Purgunnah of Jalindher , + such a great and tremendous noise as had nearly , by its dreadful nature , deprived the inhabitants of the place of their senses .
During this noise , a luminous body Cwas observedj to fall from above on the earth , suggesting to the beholders the idea that the firmament was raining fire .
In a short time , the ' noise having subsided , and the inhabitants having recovered from their alarm , a courier was dispatched rby themJ to MAHOMMED SYEED , the Aumil* of the aforesaid Purgunnah , to advertise him of this event .
Th &amp; e Aumil , instantly mounting , Chis horse , : proceeded to the spot , [ where the luminous body had fallenJ .
Here he perceived the earth , to the extent of ten or twelve guz .
, t in length and breadth , to be burnt to such a degree , that not the least trace of verdure , or a blade of grass remained ; nor had the heat [ which had been communicated to it3 yet subsided entirely .
MAHOMMED SYEED hereupon directed the aforesaid space of ground to be dug up ; when , the deeper it was dug the greater was the heat of it found to be .
At length , a lump of iron made its appearance , the heat of which was so violent , that one might have supposed it to have been taken from a furnace .
After some time it became cold ; when the Aumil conveyed it to his ow n habitation , from whence he afterwards dispatched it , in a sealed bag , to court .
Here I had Ethis substances weighed in my presence .
Its weight was one hundred and sixty tolahs.t I committed it to a skilful artisan , with orders to make of it a sabre , a knife , and a dagger .
The workman [ soonJ reported , that the substance was not malleable , but shivered into pieces under the hammer . ?
Upon this , I ordered it to be mixed with other iron .
ConA Aumil is a manager or fiscal superintendant of a district .
fA guz is rather less thai a yard .
tA tolah is about 180 grains , Troy weight . ?
Literally , , it did not stand beneath the ha'mmer , but fell to pieces .
, formably to my orders , three parts of the iron of lightning* were mixed with one part of common iron ; and from themixture were made two sabres , one knife , and one dagger .
By the addition of the common iron , the Cnew3 substance acquired a Cfine ] temper ; the blade Cfabricated from itl proving as elastic as the most genuine blades of Ulmanny , t and of the South , and bending , like them , without leaving any mark of the bend .
I had them tried in my presence , and found them cut excellently : ; as well CindeedJ as the best genuine sabres .
One of these sabres I named Katai , or the cutter ; and the other Burk-serisht , or the lightning-natured .
A poett composed and presented to me , on this occasion , the following tetrastich .
" This earth has attained order and regularity through the " Emperor JEHANGIRE : In his time fell raw iron from lightning : " 6 That iron was , by his world-subduing authority , " , Converted into a dagger , a knife , and two sabres .
" The chronogram of this occurrence is contained in the words..~ W 2t !
,9 which signify " the flame of the imperial light ' , ning ; " and give the year ( of the Hegera ) 1380 .
N. B. The foregoing translation ( which is nearly literal ) has been made from a manuscript that has been several years in my possession ; and which , although without date , bears marks of having been written at a remote period .
WM .
KIRKPATRICK .

