The Thermo-chemistry of the Alloys of Copper and Zinc .
9 sphere , but among these there does not seem to be any relation between the atomic Aveights and the elevations to which the gases ascend in the chromosphere .
The only non-metals found are H , He , C , and possibly Si .
Of the 225 lines measured in the ultra-violet region of the spectrum only 29 remain unidentified .
The Hydrogen Spectrum.\#151 ; Twenty-eight hydrogen lines are shown in spectrum No. 3 .
The Avave-lengths obtained are compared in Table III with the theoretical values derived from Balmer 's formula .
With the exception of HS , Avhich seems to be unaccountably displaced towards the red , the wave-lengths of the ultra-violet lines are found to agree closely Avith the formula .
A slight deviation occurs in the most refrangible lines , the positions of A\Thich seem to be distinctly more refrangible than those assigned by theory .
The continuous spectrum given by the prominences in the ultraviolet , beginning at the end of the hydrogen series , seems analogous to a feature noticed by Sir William Huggins in the absorption spectra of 1st type stars , and is possibly due to hydrogen .
Hydrogen and Helium in the Lower Chromosphere.\#151 ; From the character of some of the helium lines it is inferred that this element is probably absent from the loAvest strata , Avhilst parhelium appears to be separated from helium , and to exist at a lower level .
Unlike helium , hydrogen gives very intense lines in the flash layer .
These lines are Avell defined and narrow , even in the very lowest strata .
Reasons are given to show that the absence of hydrogen absorption in the ultra-violet , and of helium absorption in the visible spectrum , may be due to insufficient quantity of these elements above the photosphere , not to equality of temperature between the radiating gas and photo-spheric background .
The Corona Spectrum.\#151 ; The Avave-length of the green line deduced from measures of No. 3 and No. 7 spectra confirms the value obtained by Sir Norman Lockyer at the same eclipse .
The only other lines shoAvn on these photographs are at A 3388 and near H. " The Thermo-chemistry of the Alloys of Copper and Zinc .
" By T. J. Baker , B.Sc. , King Edward 's School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor Pointing , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1900.\#151 ; Read January 17 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The heats of formation of a number of alloys of copper and zinc , containing those metals in \*ery diverse proportions , have been ascertained .
10 The Thermo-chemistry of the Alloys of Copper and Zinc .
The method consists in finding the difference between the heats of dissolution , in suitable solvents , of an alloy and of an equal weight of a mere mixture containing the metals in the same proportion .
The first series of experiments was made with an aqueous solution of chlorine as solvent .
Its application was limited to those alloys containing less than 40 per cent , of copper , as it was impossible to obtain those richer in copper in a sufficiently fine state of division to enable them to dissolve .
The results , though not altogether satisfactory , showed that the heat of dissolution of an alloy was sensibly less than that of the merely mixed metals .
Incidentally it was found that the equation Cl2* Aq \#151 ; 2600 ( Thomsen s 4 Thermochemische Untersuchungen ' ) is erroneous and , on inquiry , Professor Thomsen gave a corrected value , 4870 .
The author finds Clo .
Aq = 4970 .
The most suitable solvents of the alloys are\#151 ; ( a. ) Mixture of ammonium chloride and ferric chloride solutions .
( b. ) Mixture of ammonium chloride and cupric chloride solutions .
The chemical actions involved are simple reductions , and no gases are evolved .
Two series of experiments made on twenty-one alloys yielded very concordant results .
They show that heat is evolved in the formation of every alloy of copper and zinc yet tested .
A sharply defined maximum heat of formation is found in the alloy containing 32 per cent , of copper , corresponding to the formula CuZn2 .
It amounts to 52'5 calories per gramme of alloy or 10,143 calories per gramme-molecule .
There is some evidence of a submaximum in the alloy nearly corresponding to CuZn .
From these points there is a steady decrease in the heat of formation , both in the case of alloys containing less than 32 per cent , of copper as the amount of copper decreases , and also in the case of those containing more than 50 per cent , of copper as the quantity of copper mcr69)S6s The results , in general , confirm the existence of intermetallic compounds , and the values obtained are in accordance with those demanded by Lord Kelvin 's calculation of the molecular dimensions of copper and zinc .

