J/ 6 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
279 jjno consequence , provided the distance is not altered ; thus two tiidles one foot off give the same number of revolutions per second , aether they are side by side or opposite to each other .
From this it \gt ; ft !
ows that if the radiometer is brought into a uniformly lighted space ttadll continue to revolve .
This is proved to be the case by experi-ant .
iThe speed with which a sensitive radiometer will revolve in full sun-* no is almost incredible .
Nothing is apparent but an undefined nebulous jig , which becomes at times almost invisible .
The number of revolu-tns per second cannot be counted , but it must be several hundreds , for xe candle will make the arms spin round forty times a second , dThe action of dark heat ( i. e. from boiling water ) is to repel each sur-ise equally , and the movement of the radiometer is therefore arrested if xiask of boiling water is brought near it .
The same effect is produced I ice .
[ 'From some observations made by the author , it appears probable that Sat of a still lower refrangibility repels the white more than it does the Kack surface .
Many instances are given of the radiometer revolving the everse way .
Thus breathing gently on the instrument will generally 5 use this effect to be produced .
t An experiment is described with a radiometer the moving parts of Jhich are of aluminium , blacked on one side .
" When exposed to the bdiation from a candle the arms revolve the normal way .
On removing ie candle they revolve the reverse way .
Heated with a Bunsen burner le arms revolve the normal way as they are getting hot ; but as soon as le source of heat is removed and cooling commences , rotation sets up l the reverse way , and continues with great energy till the whole is old .
The reverse movement during the cooling is apparently equal l energy to the normal movement as it is being heated .
1 It is easy to get rotation in a radiometer without having the surfaces \#163 ; the disks differently coloured .
An experiment is described with one aving the pith disks blacked on both sides .
On bringing a candle near and shading the light from one side , rapid rotation is produced , which i at once altered in direction by moving the shade to the other side .
The author describes many forms of radiometer , by means of which he movements can be exhibited to a large audience , or can be made to ecord themselves telegraphically on a self-recording instrument .
I. \lt ; c On [ Repulsion resulting from Radiation."\#151 ; Part IV .
By William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received February 5 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author describes experiments on the repulsion pro-luced by the different rays of the solar spectrum .
The apparatus smployed is the horizontal beam suspended by a glass fibre and having 280 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Feb. lo square pieces of pith at each end coated with lampblack .
The whole is fitted up and hermetically sealed in glass , and connected with an improved mercury-pump .
In front of the square of pith at one end a quartz window is cemented to the apparatus ; and the movements of the beam , when radiation falls on the pith , are observed by a reflected ray of light on a millimetre-scale .
The apparatus was fitted up in a room specially devoted to it , and was protected on all sides , except where the rays of light had to pass , with cotton-wool and large bottles of water .
A heliostat reflected in a constant direction a beam of sunlight , which was received on an appropriate arrangement of slit , lenses , and prisms for projecting a pure spectrum .
Results were obtained in the months of July , August , and September ; and they are given in the paper graphically as a curve , the maximum being in the ultra-red , and the minimum in the ultra-violet .
Taking the maximum at 100 , the following are the mechanical values of the different colours of the spectrum :\#151 ; Ultra-red ... ... ... ... .
100 Extreme red ... ... ... ... . .
85 Red ... ... ... ... ... ... .
73 Orange ... ... ... ... ... ... .
66 Yellow ... ... ... ... ... ... .
57 Green ... ... ... ... ... ... .
41 Blue ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 22 Indigo ... ... ... ... ... ... 8| Yiolet ... ... ... ... ... ... 6 Ultra-violet ... ... ... ... .
5 A comparison of these figures with those usually given in text-books to represent the distribution of heat in the spectrum is a sufficient proof that the mechanical action of radiation is as much a function of the luminous rays as it is of the dark heat-rays .
The author discusses the question , " Is the effect due to heat or to light ?
" There is no real difference between heat and light ; all we can take account of is difference of wave-length ; and a ray of a definite re-frangibility cannot be split up into two rays , one being heat and one light .
Take , for instance , a ray of definite refrangibility in the red .
Falling on a thermometer it shows the action of heat , on a thermopile it produces an electric current , to the eye it appears as light and colour , on a photographic plate it causes chemical action , and on the suspended pith it causes motion .
But all these actions are inseparable attributes of the ray of that particular wave-length , and are not evidence of separate identities . .
, The author enters into some theoretical explanations of the action o the different parts of ihe spectrum but these cannot well be given \#187 ; abstract . .
An experiment is described by which sunlight was filtered throug1 a ' .376 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
281 mss* and water screens , so as to cat off the whole of the ultra-red or i-crk-heat rays .
The ray of light which was thus freed from dark heat As allowed to fall on the pith surface of the torsion-apparatus , when it noduced a deflection of 105 ' .
On interposing a solution of iodine in fksulphide of carbon the deflection fell to 2 ' , showing that the preanus action was almost entirely due to .
With a candle tried raider the same circumstances , the light filtered from dark heat produced Meflection of 37 ' , which was reduced to 5 ' by interposing the opaque iilution of iodine .
a In order to obtain comparative results among disks of pith coated jriith lampblack and with other substances , a torsion-apparatus was contracted in which two or more disks could be exposed one after the her to a standard light .
One disk always being lampblacked pith , the her disks could be changed so as to get comparisons of action .
If ; ie action of radiation from a candle on the lampblacked disk be taken ii 100 , the following are the proportions obtained :\#151 ; On Lampblacked pith ... ... ... ... ... ... .
100 Iodide of palladium ... ... ... ... .
] 87*3 Precipitated silver ... ... ... ... ... .
56 Amorphous phosphorus ... ... ... ... ... 40 Sulphate of baryta ... ... ... ... ... . .
37 Milk of sulphur ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
31 Ped oxide of iron ... ... ... ... ... ... 28 Scarlet iodide of mercury and copper 22 Lampblacked silver ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 White pith ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
18 Carbonate of lead ... ... ... ... ... ... .
13 Rock-salt ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 6* 5 Glass ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
6*5 I In consequence of some experiments tried by Profs .
Tait and Dewar , Ind published in 'Nature/ July 15 , 1875 , the author fitted up a very xensitive apparatus for the purpose of carefully examining the action of Jadiation on alum , rock-salt , and glass .
The source of radiation was a jandle .
Perfectly transparent and highly polished plates of the same ize were used , and the deflection was made evident by an index ray of light .
Taking the action on the alum at 100 , that on the rock-salt in live successive experiments was 81 , 77*3,71 , 62-5 , 60*4 .
This increasing t .ction on the alum was found to be caused by efflorescence , which took \gt ; lace rapidly in the vacuum , and rendered the crystal partially opaque .
II fresh alum plate being taken , this and the rock-salt were coated with ampblack and replaced in the apparatus , the black side away from the [ lource of radiation , so that the radiation would pass through the crystal \gt ; efore reaching the lampblack .
The action of radiation was in the i xroportion of blacked alum 100 to blacked rock-salt 73 . ?
VOL. xxiv .
v 282 On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
[ Feb. 10 Hock-salt and glass were next tested against each other vacuo in a torsion-balance .
Professors Dewar and Tait say that rock-salt is inactive when the beam from a candle is thrown on it , while a glass disk is active .
The author has failed to corroborate these results ; he found the mean of several concordant observations to be\#151 ; rock-salt 39 , glass 40 .
The Measurement of the Force .
The author describes a torsion-balance in which he is enabled to weigh the force of radiation from a candle , and give it in decimals of a grain .
The principle of the instrument is that of W. Ritchie 's torsion-balance , described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1830 .
The construction is somewhat complicated , and cannot be well described without reference to the diagrams which accompany the original paper .
A light beam , having two square inches of pith at one end , is balanced on a very fine fibre of glass stretched horizontally in a tube , one end of the fibre being connected with a torsion-handle passing through the tube , and indicating angular movements on a graduated circle .
The beam is cemented to the torsion-fibre , and the whole is enclosed in glass and connected with the mercury-pump and exhausted as perfectly as possible .
A weight of 0*01 grain is so arranged that it can be placed on the pith or removed from it at pleasure .
A ray of light from a lamp reflected from a mirror in the centre of the beam to a millimetre-scale 4 feet off shows the slightest movement .
When the reflected ray points to zero , a turn of the torsion-handle in one or the other direction will raise or depress the pith end of the beam , and thus cause the index ray to travel along the scale to the right or to the left .
If a small weight is placed on one end so as to depress it , and the torsion-handle is then turned , the tendency of the glass fibre to untwist itself will ultimately balance the downward pressure of the weight , and will again bring the index ray to zero .
It was found that when the weight of the yfoy of a grain was placed on the pith surface , the torsion-handle had to be turned 27 revolutions and 353 ' , or 10073 ' before the beam became horizontal .
The downward pressure of the yjy of a grain was therefore equivalent to the force of torsion of the glass thread when twisted through 10073 ' .
The author next ascertained what was the smallest amount of weight which the balance would indicate .
He found that 1 ' of torsion gave a very decided movement of the index ray of light , a torsion of 1007\#174 ; balancing the of a grain , while 10074 ' overbalanced it .
The balance will therefore turn to the 100\gt ; 000,000 a gr8^ Divide a grain weight into a million parts , place one of them on tbf pan of the balance , and the beam will be instantly depressed . .
' Weighed in this balance the mechanical force of a candle 12 inches off was found to be 0*000444 grain ; of a candle 6 inches off 0*001772 grain .
At half the distance the weight of radiation should be four times , ^ or 0*001776 grain ; the difference between theory and experiment being )376 .
] On the Specific Volumes of Liquids .
283 lly four millionths of a grain is a sufficient proof that the indications j : this instrument , like those of the apparatus previously described by t ie author , follow rigidly the law of inverse squares .
An examination If the differences between the separate observations and the mean shows at the author 's estimate of the sensitiveness of his balance is not exces-ve , and that in practice it will safely indicate the millionth of a grain .
| One observation of the weight of sunlight is given ; it was taken on December 13 ; but the sun was so obscured by thin clouds and haze that | was only equal to 10*2 candles 6 inches off .
Calculating from this atum , it is seen that the pressure of sunshine is 2*3 tons per square die .
[ The author promises further observations with this instrument , not oly in photometry and in the repulsion caused by radiation , but in other iranches of science in which the possession of a balance of such incredible elicacy is likely to furnish valuable results .
February 17 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
1 The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for hem .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; [ .
teResearches npon the Specific Volumes of Liquids .
" By T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Chemistry in the Yorkshire College of Science , Leeds .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. Williamson , Eor .
Sec. R.S. Received January 14 , 1876 .
II .
On the Specific Volumes of certain similarly constituted Inorganic Chlorides .
The results of the observations made by Pierre and Kopp upon the boiling-points , specific gravities , and thermal expansibilities of the trichlorides and tribromides of phosphorus , arsenic , and antimony have led Kopp to suppose that the specific volumes of phosphorus , arsenic , and antimony , in their liquid combinations , may be identical .
The same conclusion has been drawn with respect to tin , titanium , and silicon from Pierre 's observations upon the tetrachlorides of these elements* .
* Ann. der Chem. u. Pharm. xcvi .
p. 319 .
In Mb original paper Kopp remarks that the specific volume of antimony , from his observations on the chloride , SbCl3 , and the ro mid , SbBr3 , is decidedly larger than that of phosphorus and arsenic .
But the arger value is in part due to the atomic weight of antimony being taken as 129 .
If t e more Y 2

