74 Prof. E. Pay Lankester .
On a Convenient [ Feb. 20 , The laws concerning chemical statics and dynamics in light are here elicited in an experimental way and are of a formal nature .
In a paper now in course of preparation , " On the Connexion between the Light Energy ( or the Energy of Electric Waves ) absorbed by a System and its Chemical , Thermal , Mechanical , and other Energy , " the author shows that the fundamental results , which he first elicited here in an experimental way , as well as some other experimental results bearing upon other fundamental issues in other regions of research , can , among other things , be deduced from thermodynamics , and are a necessary consequence of the same .
In the same manner the induction and deduction periods follow as a necessity from the same general thermodynamic conceptions .
This paper will be communicated in due course in the near future .
" On a Convenient Terminology for the Various Stages of the Malaria Parasite .
" By E. Eay Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Director of the Natural History Department , British Museum .
Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read March 6 , 1902 .
I have found it necessary in labelling a series of models of the malaria parasite in the Central Hall of the Natural History Museum to use as simple and clear a terminology as possible .
I think that this terminology will be found useful by others who are perplexed by such terms as " sporozoites , " " blasts , " " ookinetes , " " schizonts , " " amphi-onts , " and " sporonts " \#151 ; terms which have their place in schemes dealing with the general morphology and life-history of the group Sporozoa , but are not , as experience shows , well suited for immediate use in describing and referring to the stages of the malaria parasite .
It is necessary to treat the malaria parasite from the point of view of malaria ; that is to say , to consider its significant phases to be those which it passes in the human blood .
In reality its mature condition and most important motile , as well as its most prolific reproductive , phases are passed in the body of the mosquito .
1 .
The malaria-germ which is brought by the stab of the Anopheles into the human blood-vessels is a reproductive particle , a sjpore .
It is needle-like in shape , and might be named in reference to its form ( e.g. , oxyspore or raphidiospore ) , but the most important fact about it for description and comparison is that it has been formed outside the human body , and is introduced as a strange element into the human blood by the agency of the mosquito .
I therefore call it the Exoto^ SPORE , 2 .
The Exotospores ( probably as many at a time as forty or fifty ) enter the blood by the agency of the mosquito 's stab and immediately 1902 ] Terminology for the Stages of the Malaria Parasite .
penetrate , each one , a red corpuscle .
The history of this process has not been observed .
As soon as it has entered a red corpuscle the exotospore loses its needle-like shape and becomes amcebiform .
I apply to it the name I proposed some years ago for similar amoebiform spores in other Protozoa , namely , Amcebula.* 3 .
The Amoebula exhibits amoeboid movements within the red corpuscle , enlarges and finally breaks up into spherical spores , which are liberated with destruction of the red corpuscle .
It seems to me unnecessary to have a special name for the star-like or other condition of the Amoebula when in course of breaking up into spores ; but the spores so produced require a special name which shall emphatically distinguish them from the Exotospores .
I call them the Eniosmospores , in reference to the fact that they are produced by a process of division which occurs in the blood of the malaria-stricken human being .
4 .
The Enhsemospores penetrate fresh red blood-corpuscles , and after a certain growth as amoebulse break up into a new crop of Enhsemospores , by which the infection of the red corpuscles is extended .
This process appears to go oh for several generations and for a varying duration of time .
But owing to conditions and at a period of the infection which has not been precisely ascertained , some ( or all 1 ) of the amoebulse derived from Enhsemospores cease to break up into spores .
Instead of carrying out that process they enlarge , and in the case of the sestivo-autumnal parasite ( prcecox ) become sausageshaped or , as it has been termed , crescent-shaped .
This change of form is accompanied by a destruction of the red corpuscle and the formation of granules of dark pigment within the parasite .
It seems best to term this phase the " crescent " or " crescent-sphere , " the latter term being applicable to those species in which the form is not markedly crescentic .
5 .
The crescents or crescent-spheres remain quiescent in the human blood .
They are , however , of two different natures\#151 ; male and female .
It is not possible to distinguish with any certainty the male from the female crescents whilst they remain in the human blood-vessels .
But it is these bodies which are destined to be swallowed by the Anopheles mosquito , and to carry on further the life-history of the parasite .
The crescents are therefore the sexual phase of the parasite .
When the crescents are swallowed by a mosquito ( of an appropriate species ) , they undergo two different modes of development , determined by the fact of their sex .
Both sexes become spherical , and may now be called respectively " egg-cell , " and " sperm-mother-cell .
" From the periphery of the sperm-mother-cell , now floating in the mosquito 's stomach , there are developed with surprising rapidity six or seven spermatozoa , which for a time remain attached to the residual # * Encycl .
Britann .
, ' Article " Protozoa .
" Prof. E. Ray Lankesfcer .
On a Convenient [ Feb. 20 mass ( or SPERM-blastophor ) of the sperm-mother-cell .
Complete eytological study of this development is still wanting , but it appears that the spermatozoa are true spermatozoa , like those of the higher animals , and have the same relation to the mother-cell from which they develop as is the case in such an animal as the Earth-worm .
The egg-cell , now also floating in the mosquito 's stomach , appar-ently gives rise to one , and possibly to two , polar bodies , but the observations on this point are , as yet , insufficient .
Fertilisation of the egg-cell now takes place in the gnat 's stomach A single spermatozoon penetrates and fuses with each egg-cell .
The fertilised egg-cell is spoken of as a " zygote " ; it is also described as the sexually produced embryo .
6 .
The zygote or sexually produced embryo remains unicellular , but increases in size and becomes pyriform .
It exhibits active movements of expansion and contraction in the line of its long axis , and also a quick movement of its narrower end alternately to either side .
This is the largest growth of the individual cell attained to in the series presented by the life-history of the malaria parasite .
It has been called " vermiform " and " vermicule " ( Ross ) , and I adopt this name for it , viz. , the Vermicule .
The vermicule is the dominant individual form in the history of the malaria parasite , endowed with greater size , power , and activity than other phases .
It corresponds , not only in this respect , but also in its position in the life cycle , to the large often active cells of the Gregarinidea , which I proposed some time ago to call the Euglena-phase.* It is worthy of note that in the size and activity of the Vermicule , the Hsemaosporidia\#151 ; the order of Sporozoa which embraces the malaria parasite\#151 ; come nearer to the Gregarinidea than they do to the Cocci-diidea , though in the existence of a sexual generation absent in Gregarinidea , they agree with the Coccidiidea .
f The vermicule now pushes its way through the tissues of the gnat 's stomach and in the blood sinuses outside the stomach becomes spherical .
It enlarges and nourishes itself on the insect 's blood , and forms a spherical cyst , or structureless transparent envelope .
This cyst is destined to enlarge , with vast increase of its living contents .
The living cell within the cyst breaks up by a definite process to form eventually am immense number of exotospores , the stage with which the present description commenced .
The cyst would most conveniently be called a " sporocyst , " since , as so often happens in Protozoa , it is formed purely and simply in relation to the quiescence * ' Encyel .
Britann .
, ' Article " Protozoa .
" t A sexual phase has been described in the Gregarine Stylorhynchus by Beger since this paper was \#166 ; written .
It occurs at an unexpected point in the cycle : two encysted full grown " Sporonts " are stated to produce the one egg-cells the other spermatozoids ! .
1902 .
] Terminology for the Stages of the Malaria Parasite .
77 of the organism and its division into numerous reproductive spores .
Unfortunately , the word " sporocyst " has been employed recently by writers on the Sporozoa for the small capsules containing one or two to eight elongated spores which used to be called " pseudonaviculse and are formed within such larger cysts as that now in question .
The word " cyst " should have been reserved for the larger more general protective envelope , and the " pseudonaviculse " might have been called " sporo-thekses .
" In any case , I think we may call the cysts in which the vermicules of the malaria parasite enclose themselves " spore-cysts " or " spore-forming cysts .
" The name " oocyst , " applied to them by some writers , is simply misleading .
7 .
The spore-cysts lying outside the stomach wall of the mosquito bathed in the insect 's blood receive abundant nourishment .
The single-celled termicule enclosed undergoes rapid changes ; it increases greatly in volume and breaks up by normal cell division ( % the earliest steps have yet to be studied ) into a number of spore-mother-cells .
In the process of this division and the later stages of the final development of the " spores " ( exotospores ) , the " spore-forming cyst " increases in size to twenty times its initial diameter .
The spore-mother-cells are set closely together in the cyst ; they are of polygonal shape , owing to pressure , and each has its nucleus .
Finally they give rise , each spore-mother-cell , to a crop of filiform spores ( exotospores ) which have the same relation to the spore-mothercell as spermatozoa have to a sperm-mother-cell , viz. , they form on the outside of the spore-mother-cell as outstanding processes , carrying away all the chromatin of the mother-cell and leaving in the centre or to one side a " residuary body , " a " spore blastophore " similar to the " sperm-blastophore " of spermatozoon-development .
Thus we are brought back to the needle-like exotospores with which we started .
The spore-holding cysts burst and liberate the exotospores into the blood of the mosquito .
Thence they readily pass into the ducts of the salivary gland , and so are conveyed by the mosquito 's stabbing beak into human beings .
A point in this connection is the definite ejection by the mosquito of the secretion of its salivary gland into the punctured wound which it makes in the human skin .
There can be no doubt that such an ejection takes place .
The leech ejects a secretion on to the wound caused by its bite which has the property of preventing the coagulation of the blood .
It is possible that the mosquito and other blood-sucking flies may use the salivary secretion for the same purpose .
It is obvious that unless there were some injection into the wound on the part of the fly , the chances of infection of the bitten animal by the parasites carried by mosquitoes or tzetze fly would be very small .
Our cycle of forms with the names here made use of may be 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
8 .
9 .
10 .
11 .
Malaria .
Coccidium .
Exotospore , free in human blood ... ... .
( " Blast " of some authors .
) Amoebula , in red corpuscles ... ... ... .
Enhsemospore , ditto , and in blood Crescent , in human blood ... ... . .
a. Male ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
b. Female ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Sperm-mother-cell , in gnat 's stomach . .
, Egg-cell , in gnat 's stomach ... ... ... . .
Spermatozoon , in gnat 's stomach ... ... .
Zygote or embryo-cell , in gnat 's stomach .
Vermicule , in gnat 's stomach ... ... ... .
Spore-cyst , in blood-sinus outside gnat 's stomach ... ... Spore-mother-cells in cyst , in blood-sinus outside gnat 's stomach Sporozoite ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Schizont ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Merozoites , formed by schizogony. .
-n Grametocytes ... ... ... ... Microgametocyte ... ... ... ... ... .
Macrogamete ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Microgametocyte ... ... ... ... ... . .
Macrogamete ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Microgamete ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Young oocyst ( sporont ) ... ... ... . .
, J Wanting ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
( Called " ookinete " or " kineto-sporont " in the nomenclature of this column .
) Older ( but not larger ) oocyst or sporont Sporoblasts ( sporogony ) ... ... ... . .
Exotospores in cyst , in blood-sinus outside gnat 's stomach Sporozoites enclosed in small groups in sporocysts -within the bigger oocyst .
Free exotospores , in gnat 's salivary duct ... ... .
Free sporozoite ... ... .
, , G-regarina .
Sporozoite .
( Filiform young .
) Amcebula .
Schizogony rare : sexual stages not observed and probably wanting .
Full-grown motile " gregarine .
" ( Euglenoid phase .
) Cyst enclosing one or two full-grown sporonts .
Sporoblasts .
( ?
Conjugation in LanJcesteria Ascidice .
Spermatozoa and ova in Stylorhynchus .
) Sporozoites enclosed in capsules , called " pseudonaviculse " or " sporocysts .
" Free sporozoite .
o ' 78 Terminology for the Stages of the Malaria Parasi\ 1902 .
] Chemical and Physical Properties of Hmmoglobin .
70 written as below .
The sign x is used to indicate fissile multiplication , and + to indicate fusion , while \#151 ; ?
merely indicates continuity .
Exofcospores x and spore residues A in cyst Spore mother cells Spore-cyst* Vermicule ^ Embryo + cell ( zygote ) Free Exotospore Ameebula Enhsemospores Fern ale-^ Amsebulse Egg-cell-^--crescent Male Spermatozoa x crescent and sperm residual sphere .
I also give a list of the names here used with reference to the occurrence of the forms indicated in man or in gnat and an indication of the corresponding stages in a Gregarina and a Coccidium .
In the column belonging to coccidium I have employed the generalised physiological nomenclature accepted by special students of the Spor-ozoa ( Schaudin , Liihe , \amp ; c. ) The Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; " On Certain Chemical and Physical Properties of Haemoglobin .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , E.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College .
Lecture delivered March 13 , 1902 , ( Abstract .
) This lecture consists of two parts , of which the first is bibliographical and critical , the second experimental .
Part I.\#151 ; Bibliographical and Critical .
The author commences by stating that a peculiar interest the parallel of that which in the plant organism belongs to chlorophyll attaches to haemoglobin , for , unlike any other chemical component of the animal body , in virtue of its special chemical and physical attributes , this remarkable substance may in the strictest sense be said to possess a definite and unique physiological function .
The author then discusses certain facts in reference to haemoglobin and its products of decomposition which have a close bearing on his researches , or which possess special interest in the light of work which VOL. LXX .
, G

