Account of a Book .
Philippi Cluverii Iutroductio in universam Geographiam , tam Veterem quam Novam Tabulis Geographicis XLVI .
ac Notis olim Ornata a Joanne Bunone ; jam vero Locupletata Addit amentis &amp; Annot ationibus Joh. Frid .
Hekelij &amp; Joh. Reiskij .
in Quarto .
Amst. Typis Joannis Wolters .
Londini Prostant apud Sam .
Smith &amp; Benj Walford , in Caemeterio D. Pauli .
1697 .
PHilippus Cluverius , this Famous Geographer was born at Dantzic , in the Year 1580 .
where his Father , being Master of the Mint , took great Care to educate him in the best manner ; at Fifteen Years of Age he sent him into Pologn ; afterwards to Leyden in order to study the Civil Law , for which he had no Taste nor the least Inclination , all his Passion running wholly upon Geographical Studies , being a Master in the Art of Designing and Surveying .
Joseph Scaliger , then a Professor in that University , seeing his Natural Genius bent upon Geography , advised him to pursue it , and make it his chief Business ; whereupon he resolved , first to visit Lipsius , and view all the Netherlands ; after that he spent Two Years in Hungary and Bohemia , and viewed all Germany , Italy , Sicily , France and England , with a very curious and observing Eye , having Ten Languages at his command , he was highly courted in all Places , especially at Rome ; but retaining an old Love for the City of Leyden , he returned thither , and fixed under a generous Pension from the Curators , who obliged him to read and teach Geography , of which he there published many noble Specimens , as his Com. de 3 Rheni Alveis ac Ostiis , &amp; de 5 Populis quondam Accolis cum Tab. Geograph ; his Germania Antiqua ; his Descriptio Italiae Antiquae ; as also the Sicilia , Sardinia and Corsica , all illustrated with Charts , and enriched with many admirable Observations .
After his Death , in the Year 1623 .
Joseph Vorstius published his Introduction to Geography , which Cluverius had drawn up before his Death , as an Abridgment of his Labours ; this Geographical Epitomy took wonderfully in most Countries , being often Translated and Printed in many Places , where several learned Men have thought it worth their time to Comment upon it ; as Joh. Frid .
Hekelius , Joh. Reiskius , and Joh. Buno , to whose excellent Notes the new Maps contained in this Volume are very well adjusted ; so that the present Edition may be looked upon as much the most useful and exact , whether we regard the Gravings of the Charts , the Elegance of the Types , or the Fulness of the Annotations ; part whereof were never printed before ; all which put together , render the present Work the most complete and instructive Body of Geography yet extant .

