On the influence of the Nerves upon the Action of the Arteries .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F.R.S. Read June 30 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 583 .
] The object of this paper is to show that the nerves which accompany the arteries regulate their actions , and occasion different pro portions of blood to be supplied to different parts of the body .
The facts which first led the author to entertain this opinion , were the accidental consequence of an extremely painful application of pure kali to a wound , which occasioned a general pulsation of the limb to which it was applied , although the pulsations of distant arteries were at the same time undisturbed .
In order to be quite certain that this consequence was really dependent on the irritation of nerves , the author made two experiments on rabbits in the neighbourhood of the carotid artery .
Having laid bare the par vagum and intercostal nerves , a probe was passed under the former so as to separate it , so that the irritation might be first given to this nerve alone ; but no sensible effect was thus produced upon the artery .
But when the same application of pure kali was made to the adjacent intercostal nerve , by which the artery is supplied , the dilatations and contractions of the artery were considerably increased , and the violence of the pulsations continued about three minutes before they began to subside .
The same experiment being repeated on a second rabbit , was attended with the same result ; and it was afterwards repeated on a dog without any perceptible difference .
These visible effects of the influence which the nerves possess over the arteries , enable the author to comprehend , more fully than he had done before , how different supplies of blood are sent to particular glands ; how various secretions come under the influence of the mind , and how the internal actions of the animal economy , connected with the circulation of the blood , are regulated .
If the healthy actions in the complete animal be thus dependent on nervous influence , then also the restoration of parts injured , the regeneration of parts lost ; and all , even the most complicated forms of disease , must be regulated by the natural or preternatural operation of the same machinery .

