426 On the Refractive Index of Gaseous Fluorine .
By C. Cuthbertson and E. B. E. Pbideaux , M.A , , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Sir William Eamsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 5 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The authors have determined the refractive index of gaseous fluorine for sodium light by means of Jamin 's refractometer .
Five experiments gave values for the refractivity ( ji\#151 ; 1 ) 106 of 195 , 177 , 192 , 194 and 198\#163 ; .
The discrepancy exhibited by the second experiment can be accounted for , and it is believed that the mean of the other four experiments , 195 , is within 2 or 3 per cent , of the true value .
The gas was prepared in a copper electrolytic tube , similar to that used by M. Moissan , and , after being purified from the vapour of hydrofluoric acid and from ozone , was made to displace dry air from a refractometer tube of platinum-iridium , whose ends were closed by plates of fluorspar .
It was found by experience that it was impossible to obtain the gas completely free from air , or oxygen , produced during electrolysis , and it was necessary , therefore , to analyse the mixture of gases contained in the refractometer tube at the moment when the index was observed .
The method employed for this purpose was to bring the gases into contact with dry lead filings in a closed space , and to estimate the volume of fluorine from the contraction .
When the refractometer tube was filled with the gases produced by electrolysis , it was disconnected from the source of supply and its exit and entry tubes rapidly connected with two closed burettes , half filled with mercury , having at their upper extremities a narrow tube containing a large quantity of dry lead filings .
Each closed burette was in communication with an open tube , and one was also connected with a reservoir of mercury .
The open tubes were connected by a wire passing over a pulley , so that when one was raised the other fell by an equal height .
By moving these tubes the mixture of gases in the refractometer tube was pushed into the tube containing the lead filings , where the fluorine was absorbed as lead fluoride .
As contraction occurred , the pressure was equalised by letting in mercury from the reservoir , and in this manner the quantity of fluorine present was measured .
The oxygen contained in the residual gases was measured by burning with phosphorus , and the remainder was found to be nitrogen .
Throughout the experiments it was observed that the amount of oxygen present in the current of gases proceeding from the electrolytic tube was On the Refractive Index Gaseous Fluorine .
42 7 always in excess of that due to the air present .
After prolonged investigation it was ascertained that this oxygen was not formed by the action of fluorine on moisture in the train of purifiers , but was produced by electrolysis , probably from water absorbed by the solution .
Contrary to expectation , this water was not electrolysed away before the fluorine appeared , but persisted throughout the experiment , perhaps owing to the gradual melting of a crystalline solid in the electrolytic tube .
In a recent paper , * one of the authors has attempted to show that the refractivities of the different members of the same chemical group are related in the ratios of small integers ; and it was observed that , if this coincidence were not due to chance , the refractivity of fluorine should bear to that of chlorine the ratio of 1 to 4 , which those of neon , oxygen and nitrogen bear to argon , sulphur and phosphorus respectively .
This prediction has been verified .
The refractivity of chlorine for sodium light is 768 , or 192 x 4 ; and that now found for fluorine is 195 , a discrepancy of 1J per cent. , which is well within the limits of error of the experiment .
* ' Phil. Ti'ans .
, ' A , vol. 204 , p. 323 , 1905 .

