198 The Colour-Physiology of the Higher Crustacea .
probable that the appearance of the bright spectrum to the trichromic is very similar to that of a spectrum of feeble luminosity to the normal sighted , in which only three colours\#151 ; red , green , and violet\#151 ; are seen .
The i defective difference perception which is found in these cases accounts for most of the facts .
Both these cases are bordering on the tetrachromic , as : the sodium flame appears to give rise to a distinct sensation .
The Colour-Physiology of the Higher Crustacea , Part By Frederick Keeble , M.A. , University College , Beading , and F. W. Gamble , D.Sc .
, Zoological Department , Victoria University , Manchester .
( Communicated by Professor Sydney J. Hickson , F.B.S. Beceived February 8 , \#151 ; Bead February 23 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
The chromatophores of Hippolyte and Crangon are multicellular structures .
Their branches show differentiation into a firmer ectoplasm and a more fluid mobile endoplasm in which the pigment occurs .
2 .
The formation of the pigments in the larval and post-larval chromatophores is described .
3 .
In addition to pigments , fat , in the form of colourless globules , occurs in the chromatophores of Hiypolyte .
This fat lies in special cells of the chromatophore , and exhibits a mobility similar to that of the pigments of the chromatophore .
4 .
If fed and kept in the dark , or if starved and kept in the light , loses little of its chromatophoric fat .
Depletion of fat occurs , however , in starved , dark-kept , animals .
These , when exposed to sunlight for five or six hours , show fat in their chromatophores .
These results show that the colourless chromatophoric fat is a reserve food material , and point to the conclusion that in the accumulation of this reserve fat , light plays an important part .
5 .
At the time of settling on the weeds of the sea-shore , Hippolyte variant is a colourless or faintly brown-striped animal .
At this stage it is extremely sensitive to the light conditions of its environment , assuming the colour of its surroundings within 24 hours .
If the environment be changed , sympathetic change of colour takes place in three days .
Half- and full-grown Hippolyte are less susceptible .
With them sympathetic colour-change occupies a week or more .
hi \#166 ; 0 ist l\#171 ; i C

