[ 519 ] XXIII .
On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part III .
Diprotodon australis , Owen .
By Professor Owen , \amp ; c. Received December 10 , 1869 , \#151 ; Read February 3 , 1870 .
S 1 .
Introduction.\#151 ; In a letter dated May 8th , 1888 , addressed to Sir Thomas Mitchell , F.G.S. , Surveyor-General of Australia , giving results of an examination of a series of Fossil Remains from caves in ' Wellington Valley , ' and published in his 4 Three Expeditions into the Interior of Eastern Australia , ' vol. ii .
8vo , 1838 , one of the specimens was described as follows:\#151 ; " Genus Diprotodon .
I apply this name to the genus of , represented by the anterior extremity of the right ramus , lower jaw , with a single large procumbent incisor ( IX .
) , fig. 1 , pi .
31 .
This is the specimen conjectured to have belonged to the Dugong , but the incisor resembles the corresponding tooth of the Wombat in its enamelled structure and position ( see fig. 2 , pi .
31 , and a section of the Wombat 's teeth in fig. 7 , pi .
30 ) .
It differs , however , in the quadrilateral figure of its transverse section , in which it corresponds with the inferior incisors of the Hippopotamus .
To this todon , or to some distinct species of equal size , have belonged the fragments of bones of extremities marked X , X a , X5 " ( p. 362 ) .
I reproduce the original figures ( Woodcut , figs. 1 \amp ; 1 representing the specimen of half the natural size , and the section of the i incisor of the full size , on which the genus was founded ; but which specimen I now know to be that of a young individual .
Extraordinary as seemed the magnitude of the beast which this tooth indicated , at a period when the largest known mammal of Australia was a Kangaroo , it gave only half the size of the full-grown Diprotodon australis .
In ignorance of this fact I was led astray by the first evidences ( femur and molar teeth ) of the mature animal which were transmitted to me from freshwater deposits in another and remote locality of Australia ; and , for a short time , I believed them to belong to a Proboscidian , referring them , in 1843 , on the authority of a drawing of part of a jaw and teeth transmitted to me by Sir Thomas Mitchell , to the Dinotherian section of that order* .
* Annals and Magazine of Natural History , No. 71 , for May 1843 .
But I was not long under this delusion , and in 1844 realized grounds for the following rectification:\#151 ; " Having since received specimens of portions of lower jaws with teeth identical in structure with the fragment figured in my first communication to the ' Annals of Natural History ' ( p. 9 , figs. 2 \amp ; 3 ) , I find that the reference of that portion of tooth to the genus Dinotherium was premature and erroneous .
The extinct species to which it belonged does indeed combine molar teeth like those of Dinotherium with two large incisive tusks in the lower jaw ; but those tusks incline upwards instead of downwards , and are identical in form and structure with the tusk from one of the bone-caves of Wellington Valley , described by me in Sir Thomas Mitchell 's ' Three Expeditions into the Interior of Australia , ' vol. ii .
1838 , p. 362 , pi .
31 , figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , as indicative of a new genus and species of gigantic mammalian animal , to which I gave the name of Diprotodon australis Of no extinct animal of which a passing glimpse , as it were , had thus been caught , did I ever feel more eager to acquire fuller knowledge than of this huge Marsupial .
No chase can equal the excitement of that in which , bit by bit , and year after year , one captures the elements for reconstructing the entire creature of which a single tooth or fragment of bone may have initiated the quest ; in the course of which one finally realizes , with more or less exactitude , the picture which the laws of correlation had led one to frame of an animal which may have passed out of existence long ages ago*f\ Appeals to friendly correspondents in Australia had met , in 1845 , with so much success as enabled me to give the entire dental formula of the lower jaw , viz. * , 1 , 0 , m , 5 ; =6 : and also to indicate a second genus of large herbivorous Marsupial ( only inferior in size to DiprotodonJ .
Further evidences fell in at longer intervals , and I was occasionally flattered with the hope of obtaining an entire skeleton , as by the subjoined extract from my old ally in researches of Australian Zoology , Dr. George Bennett , F.L.S. , of Sydney , New South Wales .
Copy of part of a letter from George Bennett , Esq. , , dated , September 18 th,1863 , referring to a skeleton of Diprotodon .
" . . . .
I have some expectation of getting you more of the bones of the Diprotodon ; my son George , who is now on a station in Queensland , writes me as follows:\#151 ; ' I have been along the bank of a creek called 4 King 's Creek , ' and searched it very minutely : I have found several bones , and also the place where the whole of a skeleton is imbedded in the ground .
The bones are immense , some of the vertebrae are about 12 or 14 inches in length .
I have now one of the smaller vertebrae , and it measures 6 inches in diameter .
* Annals and Magazine of Natural History for October 1844 .
t I hazarded the expression , in 1843 , of such an ideal picture , as " of a heavy terrestrial quadruped , like the Mastodon , with thick and stout extremities adapted to the support and progression of a massive frame .
Anna !
* and Magazine of Natural History , vol. ix .
p. 332 .
t " Report on the Extinct Mammals of Australia , and on the Geographical Distribution of Pliocene and Postpliocene Mammals in general , " Reports of the British Association , 8vo , 1845 .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
The head of the same skeleton was sent some years ago to Sydney .
The shepherd who discovered the head is here still , and it was he who showed me the place .
When I can get time and men in that direction I will dig it out and then forward it by degrees to you .
' " Since I received this account , " proceeds Dr. Bennett , " I have seen Mr. W. B. Tooth , the owner of the station , and he informed me that he has a large blade-bone , and that when he visits the station and has the men at leisure , he will gradually dig out the skeleton as perfect as possible and forward it to me .
Mr. T. left on the 15th of this month for the station .
I suggested to him to preserve every bone however small , which he has promised to do .
On my receiving only a few at a time I will immediately transmit them to you , as I expect it will take some time to excavate the whole skeleton , as men cannot be spared at all times from a large sheep station .
" I have long ( perhaps too long ) deferred entering upon the work of the present com munication , hoping to complete the materials for the entire reconstruction of the todon .
But the quick lapse of time , its inevitable effect on mind and body , and the venial impatience of the possessors of nondescript bones of the great Marsupial , combine to put an end to delay , and I proceed , therefore , to the description of the parts of this extinct animal at present at my command .
S 2 .
SJcull.\#151 ; It is probable that the specimen in the British Museum ( Plate XXXV .
figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) , purchased at the sale of a series of Australian Fossils sent to London from Sydney by a Mr. Boyd , and stated to have been obtained from the bed of a creek at Gowrie , near Drayton , Darling Downs , Queensland* , may be the " head " referred to in the letter above cited .
The chief dimensions of this skull are given in the 'Table of Admeasurements ' of parts of the skeleton of Diprotodon , p. 573 .
The skull shows the general marsupial character of that part in its degree of depression or flattening from above downward , in the small proportion devoted to receive the brain , and in the large proportion given to the olfactory chamber and precranial air-sinuses .
The occipital region ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , s , fig. 3 ) , instead of being vertical , as in Macropus ( ib. fig. 5 ) and most existing Marsupials , slopes forward from the terminal condyles at an angle of 45 ' with the basicranial axis .
The basioccipital ( ib. fig. 3 , i ) forms by a thick border convex vertically , slightly concave transversely , the lower part of the rim of the foramen magnum ( ib. o ) an inch in extent , separating in the same degree the lower ends of the occipital condyles ( ib. 2 , a ) .
These ends may be contributed by the basioccipital element , but the sutures between it and the exoccipitals are obliterated .
* " All the above fossil remains are from King 's Creek , Darling Downs , being the same locality whence the entire skull of the Diprotodon was obtained some years ago."\#151 ; W. S. Macleay , in * Report on Donations to the Australian Museum during August , 1857 .
' See also " Owen , On Nototherium , ' ' in Proceedings of the Geological Society of London , March 1858 , p. 158 .
4 b 2 522 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
The basioccipital , as it advances , expands and gains a thickness of nearly an inch of compact and minutely cellular bony tissue .
The occipital condyles ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 3,2 ) , an inch apart below and 2-g inches apart above , have their lower extremity obtuse , about an inch broad , curved inward and forward ; they expand as they ascend , diverging to a breadth of 2 inches at their upper ends .
The vertical convexity of each condyle describes a semicircle , the extent of the articular surface following this curve being 6 inches .
The outer border is longer than the inner one , so that the upper margin of the condyle rises obliquely from within outward .
The narrow lower ends of the condyles rise or project more abruptly from the intervening basioccipital border of the foramen magnum than in Macropus .
Each condyle is here impressed by a rough surface or shallow notch at its inner surface , indicative of tendinal insertion .
A low narrow ridge extends from the outer part of the lower end of the condyle , forward , and may indicate the lateral extent of the basioccipital at this part .
The transverse convexity of the condyle is greater , less angular , especially at the lower half , than in Macropus .
The oblique base or upper end of the condyle projects proportionally more from the non-articular part of the exoccipital .
A similar better definition or greater prominence characterizes the outer margin of the condyle ; the inner margin forming the sides of the foramen magnum is sharper and better defined than in Macropus : these borders are also less divergent as they rise .
The inner , non-articular side of the condyle is slightly concave , rough , subtuberculate .
The outer border of the articular part is sharp , and projects over the inner non-articular side of the condyle .
In their posterior terminal position and degree of prominence the occipital condyles of Diprotodon resemble those in Dinotherium .
The foramen magnum ( ib. fig. 3 , 0 ) is bounded above by the arched obtuse border of the exoccipitals , which bones rapidly gain thickness as they extend from the foramen .
I assume that the exoccipitals met above the foramen , as in many Marsupials ; or , if not meeting , had their interspace filled by the superoccipital , as in Phascolarctos : they left here no notch , such as one sees in Macropus Bennettii .
The upper border of the foramen magnum is non-emarginate in Macropus major ; but it is relatively of greater extent in that Kangaroo , through the greater divergence of the condyles , and it is less arched or concave transversely than in Biprotodon .
Two precondyloid foramina open upon each exoccipital , opposite the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the condyle , from which the hindmost foramen is distant 9 lines , the next 1 inch 2 lines ; each foramen is about 4 lines in diameter .
An irregular or tubercular ridge curves over the fossa of the precondyloid foramina , expanding to be lost on the paroccipital .
This process ( ib. figs. 1 \amp ; 3 , \#171 ; ) is tuberous , thick , and short ; it is not so much produced as in Macropus .
The foramen magnum is more erase than in , i. e. it expands funnel-wise to its outlet , backward , and especially above and below ; it has more the character of a short ( neural ) canal than a foramen , through the antero-posterior extent of its wall 01 rim .
It is transversely elliptical , 2 inches 5 lines in long , 1 inch 3 lines in short , dia- PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
meters .
It opens directly backward , the plane of its outlet being vertical .
On each side of the inlet of the foramen magnum a wide and deep impression of a sinus curves downward to the jugular foramen at the inner side of the base of the paroccipital. .
The inner openings of the precondyloid canal are in a slight depression on each side the foramen magnum , a little nearer together than the outlets .
In the almost entire skull the upper border of the foramen magnum and contiguous part of the superoccipital surface are wanting .
In the part of the occipital of another skull that surface is preserved to an extent of 2^ inches in advance of the upper border of the foramen , and for a breadth of 6 inches .
This surface slopes forward from the foramen and condyles as in the entire skull ; it is externally smooth and transversely undulating , showing a shallow medial concavity between two broad gentle convexities , which fall outwardly into concavities bounded by the oblique bases of the condyles .
Nearly the lower half of the superoccipital surface is preserved in the fragment : the upper half , present in the skull , shows a strong medial vertical ridge ( Plate XXXY .
fig. 3,3 ) , and is bounded above by the ridge between the superocciptal ( 3 ) and parietals ( 7 ) , continued outwardly upon the mastoids ( a ) .
The cranial air-sinuses are continued backward into the super- and ex-occipitals , not into the basioccipital .
On each side the mid-ridge ( 3 ) is a shorter vertical ridge .
The mastoid ( a ) makes a much less projection than the par-occipital ( 4 ) ; it is confluent above with the petrosal , as in other Marsupials ; not preserving its primitive distinction from that sense-capsule as in the Babyroussa* .
The brain being small in Marsupials , and the disproportionate smallness of its case to the rest of the skull increasing , as in other natural groups of mammals , with the general bulk of the species in such group , this character is a striking one in the skull of Dipro-todon .
Like its carnivorous contemporary the , the brain-case makes no convexity or out-swelling into the temporal fossae ; the inner as well as the outer and hind walls of these long and large lateral vacuities are concave , and form parts of a general though not uniform excavation .
The broad and low triangular superoccipital surface , strongly sloping forward as it rises from the condyles , contracts above to its apex , and is continuous there with a ( sagittal ) ridge of the coalesced parietals ( ib. fig. 1,7 ) extending forward to the interorbital region .
There the upper surface of the cranium begins to expand , and to swell into a pair of low convexities ( ib. fig. 1 , n ) which roof over the frontal sinuses .
The outer wall of this pneumatic part of the cranium has been crushed down by posthumous pressure or injury in the entire skull .
The nasals ( Plate XXXV .
figs. 1 , 2 , is ) , in continuing forward from the frontals the upper line of the skull , rise gently toward their terminations , which again curve downward , giving a sigmoid contour to that part of the cranial profile in a degree peculiar to the present species .
The vertical diameter of the facial part of the skull at the ter* Owen , \#171 ; Anatomy of Vertebrates , ' 8vo , vol. ii .
p. 469 ; and Catalogue of the Osteology , in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , ' 4to , no. 3345 , p. 557 .
t Philosophical Transactions , 1866 , Plate 1 .
mination of the nasals rather exceeds that of the cranial part at the parietal region ; it is also greater than the beginning of the facial part of the skull in advance of the orbits and molar alveoli , whence there is a gain both in depth and breadth as it approaches the anterior terminations ; but the uniformity of this diameter of the skull along the medial line , from the superoccipital forward to the premaxillo-nasal part , viewed sideways or in direct profile , is a remarkable characteristic of The part of the maxillary ( Plate XXXY .
fig. 1 , 21 ) lodging the molar series of teeth ( d S-m3 ) breaks the lower line of the profile , descending below it along the middle third of the length of the skull .
The zygomatic arch is deep , long , but proportionally less convex outwardly , or less expanded , than in Thylacoleo .
Its base ( ib. figs. 1 \amp ; 3,27 ) seems as if continued from the whole side of the occipital plane , contracting rapidly at the upper border as the arch sweeps outward and forward ; the superoccipital crest being continued into the upper border of the arch , and this apparently without break or abrupt rise in any part of that border * .
The frame of the orifice of the " meatus auditorius " ( ib. fig. 1 , 28 ) projects downward from the hind part of the lower border of the base of the zygoma , indicative of the tympanic .
Immediately in front of this descends the postglenoid process ( a ) of the squamosal , and in advance of this is a second downward projection or convexity due to the u eminentia articularis " ( b ) , which is here , as in Marsupials , a process of the malar ( 20 ) .
From this part the lower border of the zygoma runs forward nearly parallel to the upper one , but with a slight concavity , as far as the maxillary element of the zygoma , which sends down a strong , moderately long , obtuse , subcompressed masseteric process ( ib. 21')\#151 ; a cranial feature which is peculiar to herbivorous Marsupials^ .
The orbit ( ib. fig. 1 , r)is a relatively small vertically oval cavity , communicating widely behind with the temporal fossa ( ib. 7 ) .
The external nostril ( ib. figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , ft ) is terminal , sub vertical , rather expanded , and divided in great part by an upward extension of the medial nasal plate of each premaxillary ( ib. figs. 1 \amp ; 2,22 ' ) , which plates , being in close contact , form the lower part of a long " septum narium " at the outlet of the nasal cavity , recalling its condition in the extinct Rhinoceros tichorhinus .
There is a narrow and short descending ridge at the coadapted medial borders of the nasals , which seems to have been continued into the septum by cartilage rather than by bone .
I have alluded to the analogy which the structure of the external nostrils in Diprotodon suggest to those of an extinct Pachyderm , but the truer and closer resemblance is found in the Marsupial group .
The cavity of the nose is divided by a complete bony septum to within one-fourth of the outer opening in Macropus and , advancing , in one species of Wombat , as in Nototherium , nearer to that outlet .
* Some mutilation of the hind part of this upper border in both zygomata begets reserve in definitely pronouncing as to its normal outline .
+ The descending masseteric process in Glyptodonts , Sloths , and Megatherioids is formed by the malar bone exclusively .
Owen , * Anatomy of Vertebrates , ' vol. ii .
p. 405 , figs. 273 , 274 , 26 , a. \#163 ; " On the Osteology of the Marsupialia , " Zoological Transactions , vol. ii .
p. 391 .
Anatomy of Vertebrates , vol. ii .
p. 348 .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
The base of the masseteric process of the maxillary ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , 21\#187 ; ) is a ver_ tical outstanding ridge , beginning below about an inch above the fore part of the last molar alveolus , or above the interspace between the last and penultimate sockets , according to the age of the individual .
It becomes thinned as it rises and projects , and then suddenly expands to form the fore part of the zygoma and to send down the process .
This is slightly twisted upon itself outward and backward , concave on the hinder and inner surface , convex at the opposite surface ; the fore part of the vertical base of the zygomatic process of the maxillary is smooth and concave .
The alveolar border of the maxillary contracts and terminates obtusely behind the last molar ( m 3 , Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 2 ) .
It articulates with the palatine , leaving a hinder angular interval into which the lower and fore part of the pterygoid is wedged .
The outer part of the concave hind border of the bony palate curves from the pterygoid inward and forward to opposite the mid-division of the last molar : the palatines appear to complete , with the maxillaries , the hind part of the roof of the mouth , without leaving a vacuity .
Portions of the maxillary and palatine of two other individuals are equally without indications of any wide postpalatal vacuity opposite the interspace between the last and penultimate molars .
In advance of this interval the bony palate , due here to the maxillaries exclusively , extends so as to give a breadth of the palate between the penultimate molars of 4^ inches .
Anterior to the masseteric process the outer alveolar wall of the maxillary is undulated by the vertical prominences , indicative of the large and thick roots of the molar teeth .
The alveolar border contracts as the teeth advance in position and decrease in size , and becomes a ridge anterior to the first molar in place ( usually the second of the series ( \lt ; ) in full-sized Diprotodons ) .
This antalveolar or diastemal ridge ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , x ) curves upward and inward , approaching its fellow , then arches downward and terminates at the back part of the socket of the third incisor , where the maxillo-premaxillary suture begins .
At the wider hind part of the interval , between the antalveolar ridges , there seems to have opened an anterior or prepalatal canal leading to the fore part of the nasal cavity , the orifice being elongate .
In advance of this the deep and narrow channel between the fore part of the diastemata is entire .
Above these ridges , the outer plates of the maxillaries swell outward as they ascend to form the lateral walls of the antorbital part of the nasal chamber , arching inward again above to join the nasal bones ( is ) .
The maxillo-nasal suture seems to have a relatively greater extent than in Phascolomys ; but owing to the short facial or antorbital part of the skull , as compared with , it is of much less relative extent than in that genus .
The antorbital foramen ( ib. figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , 21 ) is longest vertically .
Each premaxillary ( Plate XXXV .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , 22 ) is deeply excavated by three alveoli , the foremost the longest , largest , and most curved .
The inner walls of these alveoli rise as a strong vertical crest ( 22 ' ) dividing the lower part of the nasal outlet .
The incisive alveoli succeed each other from before backward ; and , owing to its superior size , 526 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
the outer border of the first projects further from the midline than does that of the last .
Viewed from the palatal aspect the two series of incisive alveoli converge backward , instead of forward as in the Kangaroo and most other quadrupeds .
The malar bone ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , ae ) ascends from its junction with the maxillary to join the lacrymal ( 73 ) at the fore part of the orbit , by a very narrow curved strip or process ; its main body is suspended in the zygomatic arch , of which it constitutes the anterior half , and the lower part , as far as , and including , the " eminentia articularis .
" The suture between the squamosal and malar elements of the zygoma is almost straight , extending from behind the orbit obliquely backward and downward to the glenoid cavity , of which articular surface the malar " eminentia , " here more flattened than usual , contributes the fore part .
This articulation ( ib. fig. 4 ) is most extended transversely to the skull 's axis ; its hinder half ( ib. ib. 27 ) is concave from before backward , its fore part ( ib. ib. 26 ) convex , but becomes flattened or a little hollowed on the " eminentia .
" ' The lacrymal ( ib. fig. 1,73 ) is perforated by the canal , marsupial-wise , in advance of and external to the orbital cavity .
S 3 .
Mandible.\#151 ; A transversely extended subconvex condyle ( Plate XLII .
figs. 3 \amp ; 4 ) adapts itself to the cavity offered by the base of the zygoma .
The condyle is 5^ inches in transverse extent , 1 inch 9 lines from before backward ; it is , in that direction , most convex .
The condyloid process is supported by a three-sided neck quickly contracting to 1 inch 9 lines in transverse diameter ( ib. fig. 3 , n ) ; it is broadest and flattened behind , contracted in front to the ridge-like beginning of the " coronoid " plate ( ib. figs. 2 \amp ; 4 , r ) , which extends forward near the outer side of the neck .
The condyle is more extended inward ( ib. fig. 4 , c ) than outward ( ib. ib. d ) of this advancing vertical coronoid plate .
The flat surface at the back part of the neck is continued into a suddenly expanded hinder facet of the ascending ramus , formed by the outward production of the hind wall or boundary of the outer depression for the insertion of the temporal muscle , and by the inward production ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 3 , e ) of the hind wall or boundary of the deep inner concavity of the ascending ramus , where opens the large entry ( Plate XLII .
fig. 2 , 0 ) of the dental canal .
Below this orifice the concavity extends downward through the concomitant extension of the inner plate or hind wall to the lower border of the horizontal ramus , where it gradually subsides .
The hind wall of the outer depression of the ascending ramus ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , e ) follows the contour of that of the inner depression , but sooner subsides ; the interspace is a continuation of the broad hind flattened facet which , as it descends , gets a more outward aspect .
Beyond the subsidence of the outer plate it gives the appearance of a bending inward of the angle of the jaw ( ib. fig. 2 , e1 ) , and that to a degree which is characteristic of Marsupials .
The outer or crotaphyte depression of the ascending ramus ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 gradually gains the ordinary level of the outer surface of the horizontal ramus , and does not undermine the ascending branch to communicate with the inner concavity as in Macro-pus .
In the shape of the condyle Diprotodon resembles , in which the intercommunicating canal is much reduced .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
The anterior border of the ascending ramus is straight and subvertical ; it is thickened at its lower part to be continued into the convex outswelling of the horizontal ramus outside the last molar ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , m 3 ) , a distance of an inch intervening between the alveolus of this molar and the convexity rising and thinning into the fore part of the coronoid plate ( f ) .
The alveolar border is continued into an obtuse ridge or prominence , 2 inches behind the last alveolus ; from which prominence the ridge subsides and expands , retrograding to form the internal border of the entry of the dental canal ( ib. d ) .
The horizontal ramus gains slightly in depth as it advances from the last to the first molar socket ( d3 ) .
Two and a half inches below this socket , and a little in advance , is the vertically elliptic outlet of the dental canal ( ib. 32 ) .
Below this orifice the ramus bulges out into a rather rough tumefaction , then slopes and contracts upward and forward to form the socket of the huge procumbent lower incisor ( 1 ) .
From the socket of 3 the alveolar border sinks and expands into the upper part of the socket of the incisor .
The under border of the horizontal ramus is smoothly and broadly convex transversely .
The inner surface sinks sheer from the openings of the molar alveoli , and curves inward below the anterior ones to the symphysis ( Plate XLI .
fig. 2 , ) .
The fore part of the mandible below the incisive alveoli , expanding to the tuberous outswellings above-mentioned , has a broad , subquadrate form , recalling the shape of that part in the Hippopotamus ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 2 , t , t ) .
The symphysis ( Plates XLI .
, XLII .
fig. 2 , s , s)begins behind , at a line dropped vertically from the front lobe of the third molar ( m 1 ) ; it is 6 inches in length , 4 inches in depth in the full-grown animal .
It gains in vertical direction more than in length during the growth of the mandible , with reference apparently to the provision of a sufficient lodgment of the progressively increasing incisive tusk .
( Compare Plate XLI .
fig. 2 , , s with Plate XLII .
fig. 2 , s , s. ) The large size of the dental canal exposed by the posterior fracture of the ramus of another mutilated mandible indicates the ample supply of vessels and nerves which minister to the growth and nutrition of the incisive tusk ; the depth of the symphysis of the jaw corresponds with the tusks , which it helps to support ; contributing to the required strength for the operations of those eroding implements , with space for the deep implantation and for the lodgment of the large persistent matrix of each tusk ( Plate XLII .
fig. 5 ) .
The direction of the symphysis is oblique , from below upward and forward ; its upper margin is nearly straight , its lower one convex ; the rough articular surface stands out a very little way from the vertical plane of the inner surface of the ramus .
In comparing the symphysial part of the jaw of JDiprotodon with that of any other large quadruped carrying a single incisor in each ramus there are well-marked differences .
The symphysis in the Sumatran Rhinoceros and in Acerotherium is less deep and is proportionately broader ; the great length of that part in the Mastodon , and its deflection in Dinotherium more conspicuously differentiate them .
In the remark-mdccclxx .
4 c ably large proportion of the symphysis in Dip to the size of its molar teeth there are no quadrupeds which so nearly resemble it as the Notothere and the Wombat ; but in this existing Marsupial the symphysial part of the jaw is broader in proportion to its depth .
The long and narrow symphysial junction in the Kangaroo is peculiar for the yielding movements allowed to the rami upon each other , which is betrayed by those of the long procumbent depressed incisors in the living animal* .
6 4 .
Dentition.\#151 ; The dental formula of Diprotodon is:\#151 ; m^\#163 ; =28 .
Of the upper incisors the first or anterior pair ( Plate XXXV .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , 1 ; Plate XXXVI .
figs. 1-6 ) are large curved scalpriform teeth , of which I have not found indications of cessation of growth in any specimen .
The skull above described and figured ( Plate XXXV .
) has been that of an aged male , judging from the size and degree of attrition of the teeth which are retained ; but the anterior incisors above , like the pair below , are continued to the bottom of their deep alveoli without contraction , and with the retention of a widely open pulp-cavity ( Plate XXXVI .
fig. 6 ) .
It is obvious that these strong anterior incisors ( ib. figs. 1-4 ) worked with the evergrowing power of the " dentes scalprarii " of the Wombat , the Aye-aye , and the Rodents .
In the above skull the length of i 1 , following the convex curve of the tooth , is 11 inches ; its circumference is 4 inches 9 lines ; the breadth of the oblique abraded working surface is 1 inch 9 lines ; the longitudinal extent of that surface is 2 inches ; but this varies in other specimens .
An extent of the tooth of 8|- inches ( following the outer curve ) is lodged in the socket of the premaxillary .
I made a transverse section of a fragment of the skull of a Diprotodon , including the fore part of the premaxillaries and their scalpriform teeth ( Plate XXXVI .
fig. 5 ) .
Such section of the tooth ( i 1 , c. d , e ) is irregularly three-sided , with the angles broadly rounded off .
The inner side , or that next the fellow tooth , is the narrowest ; the front or enamelled side is the broadest : this side is traversed lengthwise by a wide and shallow mid .channel ; the opposite side is grooved by a narrower and rather deeper channel , running along its outer half ; and the inner more prominent half of this side ( the concave one lengthwise ) also shows a narrow and feeble impression near the mid-line of the tooth , and a broader more shallow impression nearer the angle , dividing the hinder from the inner surface .
This surface , 1 inch 3 lines across ( ib. fig. 2 ) , is generally somewhat convex , but wavy through two or three low obtuse longitudinal ridges , with intervening shallow channels .
A fossil fragment of a similarly sized tooth yielding such transverse section as that shown by this remarkable scalpriform incisor would , according to present experience , determine the genus of Mammal to which it had belonged .
The enamel coating the anterior convex curve of the tooth is continued over the major part of the outer rounded surface , terminating abruptly along a line ( ib. fig. 5 , external to the outer longitudinal ridge ( c)of the posterior surface .
In like manner the enamel is continued over the rounded angle between the anterior and inner or medial sides of the incisor , and terminates abruptly at e , fig. 5 , after covering about one-* First noticed by Mason Goon , * Book of Nature/ vol. i. p. 283 .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
third of the inner surface .
The hinder and two-thirds of the inner sides of i 1 are thus uncoated by enamel , the dentine ( d ) showing there only a thin coating of cement ( c ) .
The surface of the enamel is longitudinally striate and punctate ( Plate XXXVI .
figs. 3 \amp ; 4 ) ; the fine pits being chiefly but not wholly between the striae ; so that in some parts the surface seems to be minutely reticulate or reticulo-punctate .
The surface of the dentine to which the enamel was applied shows a similar but less marked character .
The cement ( c ) is thickest where it overlaps the terminal edges of the enamel .
The second upper incisor ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , 2 ; Plate XXXIX .
fig. 7 ) is slightly curved , but in an opposite direction to the first , the anterior longitudinal outline being concave : the degree of this bend seems greater through the oblique attrition of the tooth from behind downward and forward .
The transverse section of this incisor is subcircular .
The length of the exposed part of the tooth is 3 inches ; the circumference is 3 inches 6 lines ; but this slightly diminishes to the margin of the socket , and more so to the inserted end .
The fore-and-aft extent of the abraded working-surface of the tooth ( ib. fig. 8 ) is 1 inch 6 lines .
The length of the entire tooth does not exceed 4 inches .
The third upper incisor ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , i 3 ) , of similar form , is smaller .
The length of the exposed part is 2 inches 10 lines ; its circumference is the same ; the fore-and-aft extent of the worn surface is 1 inch .
This surface runs upon the same level as that of the second incisor .
The crown of the large lower incisor , besides applying its trenchant edge against that of the broader front incisor , scraped upon both the smaller incisive teeth .
Probably , by reason of the age of the individual and the extent of tooth worn away , the original enamelled crown has gone , and both 2 and i 3 are here represented only by their cylindrical cement-covered portion .
A specimen of a detached second upper incisor is in the same condition : the enamelled crown is worn away , the root contracts to its implanted end , which shows a small remnant of a conical pulp-cavity 8 lines in depth and the same in width , as in fig. 7 , Plate XXXIX .
The second and third incisors of Diprotodon were teeth of limited growth , and with the enamel confined to and thus defining a crown as in the Kangaroos ; whilst the front incisor was a scalpriform tooth as in the Wombats , in which the second and third incisors are not developed .
The extinct Diprotodon thus exemplifies an interesting intermediate or transitional condition of the upper " dentes primores " unknown in any existing form of Marsupialia .
In the upper jaw of the skull above described ( Plate XXXV .
) the molar series is in place , with the exception of the first small tooth ( 3 ) .
The other four teeth occupy , on each side the jaw , a longitudinal alveolar extent of 7 inches 4 lines .
The homologies of these teeth with those in Macropus are indicated by the symbols used in my * Anatomy of Vertebrates , ' vol. iii .
fig. 296 , where the grounds for such use are given , and in fig. 1 , Plate XXXV .
of the present Memoir .
Scarcely a trace of the socket of the first small molar { d3 ) remains in the skull ; the other molars progressively increase in size to the last ( m 3 ) , which has a minor breadth of the hind lobe than in m 2 .
The line of the 4 c 2 working surfaces of the four molars describes a slight convexity downwards ( Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 1 ) ; the exterior line is also slightly convex ( ib. fig. 2 ) ; the interior line is concave in a less degree ; the right and left series are moderately convergent anteriorly .
The interspace between the hind lobes of the last [ molars ( m 3 ) is 4 inches 1 line ; that between the front lobes of the first molars ( d 4 ) is 3 inches 1 line ; these dimensions give the breadth of the palate between the right and left teeth above symbolized .
All the molars in place have an enamelled crown divided into two transverse lobes ( Plates XXXVII .
, XXXVIII .
a , b ) , with accessory ridges ( / , and are inserted by cement-clad contracting roots as in Macropus .
The summits of the transverse lobes are abraded in all the molars of the specimens figured ; but least so in the hind lobe of the subject of m 3 , fig. 2 , Plate XXXVIII .
The socket of the first small molar ( fig. 1 , d 3 ) is partially preserved in the entire skull ; it consists of two cavities , the hindmost the largest , the tooth having only two roots .
In the subject of Plate XXXVII .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , the crown of 4 is ground down nearly to the bottom of the cleft ( h ) ; the fore-and-aft extent of the grinding-surface is 1 inch 2 lines ; its transverse extent across the hind lobe is the same .
Across the fore part of the base of the tooth is a low ridge ( f ) , to the level of which the anterior lobe ( a ) is almost worn .
The corresponding ridge at the back part of the tooth is continued along both the outer and inner borders ( g , g ) of so much of the back part of the hind lobe as is not ground down ; the whole of the surface projects beyond the level of the worn surface of the following molar ( fig. 1 , m).The transverse cleft is deepest at its outer and inner ends ; a ridge of enamel descends from each of these ends of the anterior lobe , and , meeting a corresponding projection of the oppposite lobe , it partially closes the entry of the valley .
The anterior basal ridge is strongly developed in 1 , especially at its inner end ; the interspace between it and the anterior lobe widens toward the inner side of the tooth ( f)-The anterior lobe is worn down nearly to the level of the ridge ; the surface describes a transverse irregular ellipse ; that of the posterior lobe is narrower : in both a mid linear tract of osteo-dentine ( o , o ) is exposed .
The narrow hind basal ridge ( g ) is continued upon the hind lobe as in p 4 , and that lobe projects clear beyond the level of the grinding-surface of m 2 .
The antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the working-surface of m 1 are each 1 inch 6 lines .
' The anterior basal ridge ( f ) is strongly developed in m 2 , and the antero-posterior diameter of the tooth ( 1 inch 9 lines ) rather exceeds the transverse diameter .
The front lobe ( a ) is worn down to within 5 lines of the basal ridge .
The minor degree of abrasion of the hind lobe shows the curve of the grinding-surface , concave backward , which is lost as the thicker part of the lobe is reached .
The hind basal ridge ( g ) is feebly developed .
In the last molar ( m 3 ) the hind lobe is markedly less than the front one , by its more rapid loss of transverse dimension : it is rather narrower in this line at its base , as it is hi fore-and-aft extent .
The last upper molar of may be readily determined by its posterior contraction .
In some individuals the hind surface of the hind lobe PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
is less evenly concave transversely ; I have seen it almost canaliculate .
The loss of breadth of this lobe is chiefly from the outer side , and the lobe is lower than the front one , the level of the grinding-surface reaching halfway toward that of the front lobe .
The fore-and-aft extent of the base of the tooth is 2 inches ; the transverse extent of the worn surface of the front lobe is 1 inch 6 lines ; that of the hind lobe is 1 inch 3 lines .
The anterior ridge ( fig. 4 , f ) is continuous with a feeble rising of the enamel at the outer and the inner borders of the front surface of the anterior lobe .
The posterior basal ridge ( Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 3 , g ) is more directly and conspicuously continued into the ridge along the inner border of the posterior surface of 3. .
Wherever sufficient of the lobes remains , their profile , especially the outer one , describes a curve concave forward ( Plates XXXVII .
, XXXVIII .
fig. 1 ) .
The inner and anterior angle of each tooth , due to the more prominent part of the front basal ridge , projects inward , a few lines beyond the inner surface of the'tooth in advance ( ib. ib. fig. 2 ) .
Thus there is not only a zigzag disposition in the vertical but in the transverse arrangement of the upper molars , though in the latter it be but slightly marked .
The enamel is about a line in thickness , and shows strongly the reticulo-punctate or rugous surface at the less exposed parts of the crown .
The upper molars are implanted by fangs which acquire twice the length of the enamelled crown : they are at least three in number , save in the first small and early deciduous tooth ( d3 ) .
The base of the anterior division of the tooth bifurcates as it descends , slightly contracting in the socket , and thus forming two fangs in the same transverse line .
The base of the posterior division , if it bifurcates in any molar , is divided later and to a less extent .
It gradually contracts , and is longitudinally excavated at the side next the other fangs .
Figure 5 , in Plate XXXVIII .
, gives a view of the two anterior fangs ( m , n ) of the last molar ; fig. 6 , ib. , shows the single posterior fang ( l ) of the same tooth .
Plate XXXIX .
fig. 3 shows the sockets and implanted ends of the fangs of the antepenultimate and last molar teeth .
The outstanding antero-posteriorly compressed zygomatic process of the maxillary ( n1 ) is here opposite the hind lobe of m2 .
In the series of upper molars of Diprotodon there are varieties as to size , and as to order or degree of wear , the former variety being more constant .
Both are exemplified in the specimens figured in Plate XXXVII .
figs. 2 \amp ; 3 .
In fig. 3 , a portion of the left upper jaw with the last three grinders , m 1 shows both lobes and the anterior ridge worn down to a common field of dentine ( d ) and osteo-dentine ( o , o ) : the summits of 3 are partially abraded .
In fig. 2 , in which the last molar ( m 3 ) shows an equal degree of abrasion , the antepenultimate molar ( m 1 ) is not worn to the same degree as in fig. 3 ; the anterior lobe is ground down near to the basal ridge ( ) , but this remains untouched ; the valley between the two main lobes is not obliterated .
What is still more unusual , where the last molar has come into use , the second molar ( p 4 , fig. 2 , Plate XXXVII .
) preserves its lobes hardly worn down to the bottom of the valley , and the two fangs of the first molar ( d 3 ) remain in their alveolus .
A cursory comparison of the two foregoing specimens suggests that m 1 ( fig. 3 , Plate XXXVII .
) may have been destined to be pushed out by a vertical successor , which , in place in the larger specimen ( m2 , fig. 2 , Plate XXXVIII .
) , shows of course a less degree of abrasion .
But this is not the case .
I have in vain sought for evidence of any premolar , in either upper or lower dental series of Diprotoit differs from Macropus and resembles Phascolomys in this particular .
All the teeth , like the last three grinders in the type diphyodont dentition , belong to the first set .
The variety as to degree of attrition in molars of the same series is due to some modified habit of mastication : the difference in respect of size I ascribe to sex , the smaller grinders belonging to the female , concomitantly with a general inferiority of bulk , as is seen in Macropus .
The following admeasurements exemplify the difference of size in molar teeth , which is probably sexual:\#151 ; m 3 .
Antero-posterior diameter ... ... ... Transverse posterior diameter ( base of front lobe ) .
m 4 .
Antero-posterior diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Transverse posterior diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
m 5 .
Antero-posterior diameter ... ... ... Transverse posterior diameter .
... ... .
Antero-posterior extent of 3 , 4 , 5 . . . .
Diprotodon .
f Male .
Female .
in .
lines .
in .
lines .
1 10 1 7 1 11 1 6 2 3 2 0 2 0 1 7 2 4 2 1 2 0 1 7^ 6 0 5 10 The forms and proportions in which the four constituents of the molar teeth of Diprotodon are combined , are exemplified , in the vertical longitudinal section of the last three upper grinders , in Plate XLII .
fig. 1 .
The enamel ( e ) gains thickness as it recedes to a certain extent from the summits of the lobes , giving more resistance or grinding-power as the tooth wears down ; but the enamel thins again at the base of the lobe ; it gains a little more thickness as it is reflected , so to speak , over the basal ridges , beyond which it extends from three to four lines before thinning off , and ceases upon the body of the tooth before its division into fangs .
The usual general direction of the dentinal tubules is well displayed , as in most fossil teeth .
As the dentine becomes exposed and abraded , the pulp-cavity is defended by the coarser calcification of the remaining matrix near the field of abrasion , and from 2 to 3 lines of osteo-dentine is interposed between that field and the pulp-cavity .
In each lobe of the tooth most worn ( m 1 ) the cavity is reduced to a linear trace .
In the anterior lobe of m2 it is more expanded ; and it retains width in both lobes of m 3 .
In each tooth the pulp-cavity has received a lining of dark-coloured spar in the course of fossilization .
The cement is thickest upon the back part of the hind root ( c ) , whence it extends upon the posterior basal ridge : this partial excess of cemental development assumes a characteristically definite figure in such sections as the one described .
The lower incisors ( Plates XXXV .
, XLI .
\amp ; XLII .
i ; Plate XXXIX .
figs. 4 , 5,6 ) are PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
nearly straight ; the very slight degree in which they deviate from that line tends to an upward curve ( Plate XXXIX .
fig. 4 ) .
The length is 10 inches , the circumference 5 inches 6 lines .
The longitudinal extent of the worn surface in those of the skull ( Plate XXXV .
) is 3 inches ; its transverse breadth is 1 inch 4 lines .
The transverse section of the entire tooth ( Plate XXXIX .
fig. 6 ) is oblong ; in some it presents an irregular oval with the small end upward .
The outer side at its lower two-thirds is usually prominent ; the inner side is more even or flat , in some instances feebly convex ; in one specimen very slightly concave along its middle third .
The outer side is more constantly traversed by a narrower shallow longitudinal channel , rather above the middle of that side .
The enamel ( Plate XXXIX .
figs. 5 , 6 , e ) is continued from the border of this channel round the lower part of the incisor , to about one-fifth of the extent of the inner side ( ib. e ' ) : its terminal borders are abrupt on both sides , with the rather thick cemental covering of the unenamelled part of the circumference extending over the enamel borders .
The surface of the enamel is finely ridged lengthwise and reticulo-granulate ; the minute studs of enamel being , however , more conspicuous than the holes ; although these are not absent .
About two-thirds of the tooth is lodged in the socket , which extends backward a little beyond the symphysis , but without causing , as in Rodents , a prominence of the inner wall of the ramus ( Plate XLI .
fig. 2 ) ; in this respect resembles Macropus and Phascolomys .
The line of the socket forms an angle of 147 ' with the basal line of the mandibular ramus .
The pulp-cavity ( Plate XXII .
fig. 5 , p ) is a long cone widely open at the base .
The pair of tusks run almost parallel , slightly approximating so as to come into contact at their working ends .
The form of the lower incisor , described as it is shown in the most perfect specimen of the lower jaw of a full-grown example , is subject to some variety .
Being a tooth of unlimited growth , it increases with the size of the jaw .
In young specimens the out-swelling of the outer side , or the contraction of the upper third of that side , is either not apparent or not so conspicuous , and the transverse section of the incisor yields a full oval , as in that of the young Diprotodon from the Wellington Valley Cave * ( Cut , fig. 1 a ) , and , slightly modified , in the one of similar age from Darling Downs , Queensland ( Plate XLI .
fig. 1 , a ) .
But under all these slight varieties , which I cannot regard as specific , there prevail the same essential characters of structure , disposition of enamel , \amp ; c. , pointed out in my original Memoir as differentiating Diprotodon from , , and other Mammals with tusks of similar size .
A diastema , between three and four inches in extent , rises gently as it recedes from the incisor ( Plate XLI .
i ) , to the first molar ( d 3 ) , and more so , as the molar series becomes completed and pushed out for use as in Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , and Plate XLII .
fig. 2 .
Of the first molar tooth ( d3 ) I have no specimen .
Its existence was indicated by traces of its socket in the portion of mandible obtained by Dr. E. C. Hobson , from a gravel* Mitchell 's * Three Expeditions into the Interior of Australia/ 8vo , 1838 , vol. ii .
p. 362 , pi .
31 .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 .
bed in the " Melbourne district , " described in my * Catalogue of Fossils in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons ' ( 4to , 1845 ) , p. 308 , no. 1491 ; and such trace of socket showed the tooth to have been implanted by two fangs .
The corresponding divisions of the socket of d 3 , with the fangs in situ , are better preserved in the specimen figured in Plate XLII .
fig. 5 , and Plate XLIII .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , 3 .
Dr. Hobson , shortly before his death in 1848 , transmitted to me a sketch of this tooth situ , in a fragment of the lower jaw of a young Diprotodon ( Cut , fig. 2 ) , according to which the anterior as well as the posterior lobe of d3 is in the form of a transverse Fig. 2 .
wedge ; there is a basal ridge along both the fore and hind parts of the crown , the latter being the broadest ; in short , d 3 presents , in miniature , the bilophodont type of the succeeding molars .
From the attrition of the two lobes it may be inferred that the opposing molar above was also transversely two-ridged .
That the tooth ( fig. 2 ) answers to the one which occupied the socket ( d3 ) in Plates XLI .
\amp ; XLII .
fig. 5 , is shown by correspondence of size .
The fore-and-aft extent of the socket in both is 9 lines , the breadth of the division for the anterior fang is 4 lines , of that for the posterior fang 4^ lines ; the alveolar wall extending transversely between the two divisions exceeds a line in thickness ; each fang is subcircular at its fractured end , with an indent at the side turned toward the other fang , indicative of a longitudinal groove into which the walls of the socket enters , giving a firmer implantation to the tooth .
In the portion of mandible ( Plate XLI .
\amp ; XLII .
fig. 5 ) the penultimate molar ( m 2 ) had not risen completely into place , and the posterior lobe was barely touched by masticatory work .
In the mandibular ramus ( Plate XLII .
fig. 2 ) , with the last molar ( 3 ) in place and both ridges showing wear , the two divisions of the socket of 3 are retained , without trace of tooth .
The fore-and-aft extent of the socket is 9 lines , that of the hind fossa or division is 3^ lines , that of the front one 2^ lines , and that of the intervening bar is 2^ lines at its prominent part .
In the younger jaw the second molar ( Plate XLI .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , 4 ) has both lobes of the crown about half worn down ; the fore-and-aft extent of the crown , including the anterior and posterior basal ridges , is 1 inch 6 lines .
The anterior basal ridge is thickest at its outer part , and here the enamel has been worn off in mastication .
The flat fore side of the front lobe rises 5 lines above the ridge .
The abraded surface ( Plate XL .
fig. 3 , a ) of this lobe is 8 lines in transverse and 4 lines in antero-posterior extent , the mid part being increased in this direction by an outswelling of the hind surface there of the lobe .
The outswelling of the front slope or surface of the hind lobe is situated more outwardly : the abraded surface ( Plate XL .
fig. 3 , b ) of this lobe is narrower from before First lower molar , d 3 , young Diprotodon , not .
size .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
535 backward , broader transversely , than that of the front lobe .
A low and short ridge of enamel ( h ) closes both outer and inner ends of the intervening transverse valley .
The length or vertical extent of crown between the end of the valley and the division into fangs is 5 lines on the inner side and 4 lines on the outer side of the tooth .
The middle of the hind surface of the hind lobe swells out ; and as both outer and inner ends of the hind basal ridge ( g ) bend up the corresponding parts of the hind lobe , its hind surface shows two shallow depressions divided by the above-named rising : in these depressions the reticulo-punctate character of the enamel is most strongly marked .
The hind basal ridge is thicker than the front one ( f ) , and thickest at its middle ; its enamelled margin is irregular , it rises higher than , and seems to overlap , the front basal ridge of the following tooth .
The cement upon the exposed part of the crown of 4 , between its enamelled lobes and implanted fangs , is thick .
The fangs are two in number , broadest transversely , slightly divergent , canaliculate on the contiguous sides .
In the jaw of an older Diprotodon the second molar ( Plate XL .
fig. 4 , d 4 ) shows both lobes abraded to their common base , exposing the osteo-dentine ( o ) obliterating the cavity of the fang .
A small part of the enamel of the front basal ridge shows its position as blended with the front lobe .
The line of enamel of the worn hind surface of the hind lobe ( b ) forms an open angle , of which the apex shows the end of the prominence joining the middle of the hind basal ridge ( ) , and dividing the remnants of the pair of depressions between that ridge and the hind lobe .
The fore-and-aft extent of the worn surface of this molar is 1 inch 6^ lines ; that of the base of the crown is 1 inch 8 lines ; the breadth of the hind part of the worn surface is 1 inch .
The alveolar border rises into an angle between the origins of the fangs .
In Plate XL .
fig. 2 shows the working-surface of the crown of d 4 , of rather smaller size than those above described , and probably from a young female Diprotodon .
The summit of the anterior lobe is so far worn as to expose a transverse curved line of dentine , concave forward , beginning to expand where attrition has reached the prominent part of the hind surface of the lobe .
The summit of the posterior lobe has just been touched .
The proportions of the basal ridges ( jf , g ) are well shown .
The reticulo-punctate character of the enamel is well marked .
This tooth was from the freshwater deposits of the Province of Victoria , near Melbourne .
The outer side view of this tooth is given in figure 1 .
From the same locality I received the third molar ( m 1 ) of the same Diprotodon ( Plate XL .
figs. 5 \amp ; 6 ) : its almost untouched lobes are more compressed than in the Tapir and Dinothere , and their lamelliform summits rise higher beyond their basal connexions than in the Kangaroo ; the median connecting ridge which extends between the two transverse eminences longitudinally , or in the axis of the jaw in the molars of the Kangaroo ( ib. fig. 14 ) , is very feebly indicated by the outswelling , shown in figs. 3 \amp ; 7 , at the back of lobe # , in the Diprotodon .
The anteriorly concave curve of the summits of the transverse lobes , in fig. 6 , is more regular , equable , and greater than in the Tapir ( fig. 15 ) , the Dinothere , or the Kangaroo .
The two fangs , the contiguous mdccclxx .
4 D surfaces of which present the deep and wide longitudinal groove , as in the Tapir , Dino-there , and Kangaroo , are connected together at their base by a ridge coated thickly with cement , and extending longitudinally between the beginnings of the opposite grooves in Diprotodon .
The third molar in the young specimen ( Plate XLI .
figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , 1 ) has both lobes par- tially abraded ; the fore-and-aft extent of the tooth is 1 inch 10 lines , the basal breadth of both lobes is the same , viz. 1 inch 1^ line .
The reticulo-punctate or " worm-eaten " character is strongly marked on the enamel of the fore part of the front lobe ; this is slightly concave transversely at its upper part , the outer and inner borders inclining forward to receive the upward continuations from those ends of the anterior transverse ridge ( / ) .
The middle of the hind surface of the front lobe ( Plate XL .
fig. 7 , a ) is prominent , making the masticatory surface widest at that part .
The prominence from the opposite surface of the hind lobe looks more like an enfolding of the outer border of that lobe , a character exaggerated in most Kangaroos ; the inner border of the hind lobe is slightly produced backward as well as forward .
The hind surface of the hind lobe does not show the mid prominence .
The hind transverse basal ridge ( g ) is highest and thickest at its middle ; the ends of this ridge are less distinctly continued upon the corresponding borders of the hind lobe than in m2 .
The slight backward curve of the lobes appears in the profile view of m 1 , fig. 5 .
In the older jaw the lobes of m 1 ( Plate XL .
fig. 9 ) are worn down nearly to their bases .
The front transverse ridge rises a little above the hind one of the antecedent tooth ; about 5 lines extent of the fore part of the front lobe rises above the ridge .
The anterior enamel-line of the worn surface is nearly straight , the posterior one forms a low angle answering to the prominence of that surface of the lobe .
The valley between the two lobes is most shallow and narrow at its middle .
The abraded surface of the hind lobe is transversely elliptical , 1 inch 4^ lines in transverse diameter , and 8 lines in the opposite diameter ; its hind border is worn down within 3 lines of the posterior basal ridge ( g ) , which abuts against the next tooth above its anterior ridge .
The fourth molar ( m2 ) in the younger specimen ( Plate XL .
figs. 9 \amp ; 10 ) has a line of dentine exposed on the summit of the front lobe ( a ) , but the enamel is not worn off that of the hind lobe ( b ) .
The transverse concavity of the fore part of the front lobe is well marked at the present early stage of attrition : the convexity of the back part increases towards the base of the mid prominence .
The ends of the front basal ridge ( f ) rise a little way upon the outer and inner borders of the front lobe .
The transverse concavity of the fore part of the hind lobe is narrowed , as it descends , by the reciprocal and progressive inbending of the outer and inner borders of the lobe upon the front surface , as this approaches the base of the lobe .
The height of the hind lobe from the middle of the valley is 1 inch 3 lines ; the antero-posterior extent of the middle of the base of the lobe is 10 lines .
The posterior basal ridge ( ) resembles that of m 1 , bearing the same proportion to the front ridge .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
In the older specimen ( ib. fig. 11 ) the two lobes of m2 are half worn down ; the abraded surface of each is gently bent with the concavity forward ; the transverse extent of such surface is 1 inch 7 lines ; the fore-and-aft extent of the tooth is 2 inches 4 lines .
The abraded surfaces slope from before downward and backward .
In the last molar of the same lower jaw the summit of the hind lobe , on which a narrow tract of dentine is exposed , measures 1 inch 4 lines in transverse extent , that of the more worn front lobe being 1 inch 6 lines .
The transverse extent of the base of each lobe is the same , viz. 1 inch 7 lines .
The summit of the hind transverse ridge ( g ) is continuous with a short low rising upon the back part of the hind lobe .
The antero-posterior extent of the tooth is 2 inches 5 lines .
There is less difference between m 2 and m 3 of the lower jaw than in the upper one .
Owing to the direction of the plane of attrition , the front surface of each worn lobe is higher than the back surface ; the front lobe , when unworn , rises a little higher than the back one .
The fore part of each tooth rises more abruptly , and in a greater degree above the back part of the tooth in advance ; thus the line of attrition of the entire molar series is zigzag .
The general curve of the grinding-surface of the four molars is slightly concave from before backward , as , above , it is convex .
The contour of the outer sides of the lower series of molars is slightly convex ; that of their inner sides is almost straight .
In the mandible belonging to the skull ( Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 ) the outer part of m 2 is worn to its base , and a larger proportion of m 3 alone remains in the left ramus* .
The fore-and-aft extent of m 3 is 2 inches 5 lines : the same extent of the abraded surface of the front lobe is 9 lines , its transverse extent being 1 inch 7 lines .
The enamel at this part of the tooth is fully a line in thickness .
In a fragment of the left mandibular ramus of an old are the last two grinders ( Plate XL .
figs. 17 , 18 ) , similarly worn down but better preserved .
In m 2 ( fig. 17 ) a portion of the enamel at the inner end of the valley ( e ) , and the enamel of the hind part of the base of the hind lobe with the contiguous basal ridge alone remain ; the rest of the surface is polished dentine and osteo-dentine with the external cement .
In m 3 ( fig. 18 ) the enamel is worn away from the fore and outer part of the front lobe ; the front basal ridge is rounded off ; the outer boundary of the valley connecting there the front and hind lobes is smoothed down , and the middle of the hind transverse ridge is touched .
Both lobes are worn down nearly to the bottom of the valley .
At the middle of each of the smooth concave plates of dentine , a central tract of osteo-dentine ( o ) is defined .
The antero-posterior extent of 2 is 2 inches 4 lines ; that of m3 is 2 inches 5 lines ; the greatest transverse diameter in each is 1 inch 7 lines .
This Diprotodon had probably died of old age .
The outer alveolar border has grown upward with the rise of the fangs and base of the teeth to bring them into grinding contact with those of the upper jaw .
In the crown of the last molar not wholly emerged from the formative alveolus of the * The form and position of these teeth are given , in outline , from better preserved and less worn specimens .
4 d 2 young Diprotodon ( Plate XL .
figs. 12 , 16 ) , the unworn summit of the hind lobe is irregularly and minutely wrinkled , not divided into small mammilloid tubercles as in the Dinothere .
In the largest existing species of Kangaroo { Macropus major and M. lani-ger , e. g. ) the lower molars have no posterior basal ridge .
It is interesting to find that this is present in a still larger extinct species { Macropus , Ow .
, fig. 14 , but it is narrower than the anterior basal ridge .
In the lower molars of Diprotodon the posterior basal ridge is not only constant , but is broader than the anterior one .
The sum of the characters of the teeth of , and the observed varieties and modifications due to sex , age , and other conditions , have been given in detail and fully illustrated .
The most common evidences of extinct Mammals are detached teeth ; and it seemed desirable to afford sufficient and satisfactory means of determining those of the genus Diprotodon , as thereby the knowledge of its geographical distribution in the Australian Continent at the period of its existence may be the more speedily acquired .
A retrospect of the dentition exhibited in the series of specimens above described and illustrated brings to view a combination of characters now shown apart in the marsupial herbivorous genera Macropus and Phascolomys ; but the Macropode characters prevail in number and importance .
The small upper incisors { i 2 and i 3 ) with definable crown and fang and concomitant limitation of growth , the same genetic character of the molars with the bilophodont type of their crown , testify to the closer affinity of Diprotodon to Macropus .
The large , scalpriform , ever-growing first pair of incisors of the upper jaw , with the shape , structure , and corresponding genetic character of the lower pair of incisors , are resemblances to the Wombat 's dentition ; and the same affinity is exemplified in the number of the molar teeth .
In the Macropode group , although not more than five grinders are ever in place in one alveolar series of either jaw , seven may be developed .
Of these teeth two have no homologues calcified in either Phascolomys or Diprotodon ; these are the small anterior teeth symbolized in my ' Anatomy of Vertebrates ' ( vol. iii .
p. 380,.fig .
296 ) as 2 and p 3 ( Cut , fig. 4 ) .
It may be objected that , for certainty on this point , one ought to have specimens of jaws of Diprotodon of an earlier age than that represented in Plates XLI .
\amp ; XLII .
My experience in marsupial dentition begets confidence , however , that , had a true " replacing tooth " been developed in Diprotodon as in , its crown-germ would have been detected beneath the tooth marked d 3 , in the subject of the above-cited Plates .
I also believe that , had a 2 ever been calcified and in use , as in the Kangaroos and Potoroons , some trace of its alveolus would have remained , in this young jaw , instead of the continuous , even sub trenchant margin which the diastema of the subject of Plate XLI .
presents between d 3 and i. Since the Wombats in their molar dentition offer precisely the same differences as to number and succession of grinders which Diprotodon presents , we may have the less reserve in accepting the evidences of the further resemblance which the molar series adds to the incisive one .
The extension of the genetic character of the scalpriform incisors PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
to the molars is the marked distinction of Phascolomys in the Marsupial series ; for , with continuous growth , go length of tooth without loss of breadth , depth of implantation with , commonly , curvature of socket , and continuation of enamel to the widely open base of the tooth .
I have no evidence that the first and smallest of the series of five grinders in Phascolomys is a premolar or replacing tooth , and view it , therefore , as one of the first developed calcified series .
It is analogous , in function , in retention , and long-continued use , to a premolar of the placental type-dentition .
The succeeding four grinders in both Phascolomys and Diprotodon are equally members of the first set of teeth ; and the last three are homologous with those that are not displaced by vertical successors in diphyodont Placentalia .
The symbols , therefore , 3 , \lt ; Z4 , 1 , 2 , 3 , express , in my opinion , the homologies of the functional molar teeth of with those , e. g. , so marked in Hyrax , Hippopotamus , and Sus* .
For convenience of comprehension of the teeth symbolized in Plates XXXV.-XLII .
I subjoin woodcuts of an instructive phase of dentition in the Hog ( fig. 3 ) and Kangaroo ( fig. 4 ) .
Figs. 3 \amp ; 4 .
S 5 .
Spinal Column.\#151 ; Of the atlas there is a portion of the left-moiety ( Plate XLIII .
fig. 2 ) showing the deep articular cavity for the occipital condyle of the same side , between which and the diapophysis is the outlet of a canal ( a ) about 3 lines in diameter , which traverses the neural arch from within outward behind the upper part of the cavity for the condyle .
The surface ( z1 ) for the articular process of the axis is slightly concave ; between its upper part and the ridge leading from the hind margin of the neural arch to that of the diapophysis there is a deep and wide groove for the passage of the vertebral artery into the neural canal .
The above-described fragment yields evidence that , as in Macropus , Phascolomys , Phascolarctos , and some other Marsupials , the ring of the atlas ( if indeed it were completed below by bone in Diprotodon ) presented only the perforation * In my ' Anatomy of Vertebrates , ' vol. ii .
p. 465 , fig. 312 ; vol. in .
p. 346 , fig. 276 ; p. 357 , fig. 287 ; p. 377 , fig. 294 .
( for the anterior spinal nerve or a division of it ) on each side of the base of the neural arch , the vertebrarterial canal being , as above described , an open groove .
In the atlas of proboscidian and of other large placental Mammals , which the present fossil resembles in size , the diapophyses are widely bored by the vertebral artery , which usually perforates also the fore part of the neurapophysis * .
I recognize , therefore , in the portion of the atlas vertebra , here referred to todon , marsupial characteristics ; compared with that of the Kangaroo , its diapophyses are relatively shorter , thicker , terminally more obtuse , not so much expanded or depressed at that part , upon the whole more resembling those in the Wombat and Koala f. The axis or vertebra dentata ( Plates XLIII .
fig. 1 , \amp ; XLIV .
figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) is entire save the ends of the diapophyses , which have been broken away .
The length of the body , with the odontoid process , is 6 inches 3 lines , the height of the vertebra is 8 inches 4 lines , the breadth across the anterior articular surfaces is 5 inches 9 lines .
The size of this vertebra thus equals that in the largest Rhinoceros or Hippopotamus , and in length that of a full-sized Elephant .
The hind surface of the centrum ( Plate XLIV .
fig. 3 , c ) is flat , rather rough , transversely elliptic , with a tendency to an angular or octagonal outline .
The under surface ( ib. fig. 2 ) expands as it advances to develope the bases of the par-apophyses ( ib. pp ) ; contracting in advance of these it again expands into the anterior articular processes ( ib. and fig. 1 , z , z ) .
A low hypapophysis ( ib. fig. 2 , of a subtri-angular form projects from the middle of the under surface towards the fore part .
The anterior articular surfaces ( Plates XLIII .
\amp ; XLIV .
fig. 1 , z ) converge to the base of the coalesced body of the atlas , called " odontoid " process .
This element ( Plate XLIII .
fig. 1 , ca , and Plate XLIV .
fig. 2 , ca ) , 2 inches in length , 1 inch 6 lines in breadth , and of similar depth , is convex transversely and longitudinally below ; it has a pair of slightly concave roughened surfaces , meeting above , along the anterior sloping half ( Plate XLIII .
fig. 1 , m ) , behind which the upper surface rises into a low broad tuberosity ( ib. t ) , bounding anteriorly a smoothish elliptical surface ( ib. occupying the upper part of the rest of the odontoid .
A broad deep irregular depression ( ib. divides this surface of the odontoid from the anterior articular surfaces of the axis .
These surfaces ( ib. and Plate XLIV .
fig. 1 , z , z ) , of a full oval shape , 3 inches in diameter , are moderately convex .
The neurapophyses ( Plate XLIII .
n ) , after developing the diapophysis ( ib. contract to a fore-and-aft extent of 1 inch 9 lines , then expand backward to develope the postzyga-pophyses ( zr ) , in advance of and between which the neurapophyses converge and coalesce to form the base of the neural spine ( ib. ns ) .
This expands both forward and backward , * Osteologieal Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , 4to , 1853 , p. 475 , no. 2678 , * Atlas of Elephant ' ( hy misprint the vertebral artery is called " medullary " ) ; p. 509 , no. 2945 , ' Atlas of Rhinoceros bicornis " the vertebral artery perforates the diapophysis and then also the neural arch ; " p. 566 , no. 3404 , Hippopotamus amphibim , " the transverse processes are perforated by the vertebral arteries .
" t I am led to believe , after fresh study of Diprotodont fossils , that the one ascribed to a calcaneum in my ' Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons ' may be a fragment somewhat rolled and worn of the atlas vertebra .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE POSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
541 as it ascends , to an obliquely truncate summit nearly 5 inches in fore-and-aft extent ; narrow and ridge-like at the mid part , expanding and obtuse at the fore and hind angles , the latter being the thickest ; from each side of this angle a low ridge ( Plate XLIIL fig. 1 , g ) descends obliquely forward , subsiding upon the lateral surface of the spine .
The neural canal is 2 inches 3 lines in width , and rather less in height , especially behind , where the vertical diameter is 1 inch 6 lines .
A wide groove leads outward and downward from the canal between the postzygapophyses and the back part of the centrum .
The upper ( neural ) surface of the centrum is impressed at its middle with a deep pit , to which a groove leads on each side ; the smooth surface has been broken away before and behind the pit , indicative of its having been crossed lengthwise by a bony bar , which would have converted the lateral groove into a pair of foramina .
Of the quadrupeds resembling in size the , the Proboscidians have the axis most like that of the Australian giant , but the following differences present themselves .
In Elephas the odontoid is absolutely , as well as relatively shorter ; the anterior articular surfaces are less uniformly convex and less convex in any direction ; the neural spine is relatively lower , much thicker transversely , with a subquadrate termination or upper surface , canaliculate along the mid line , and deepening to produce a posterior bifurcation .
The centrum has no hypapophysis .
In , on the other hand , we find the hypapophysis is repeated both as to size and position ; the odontoid process also offers a like development , with resemblance in such details as the disposition and proportions of the pair of upper terminal surfaces for ligamentous attachment , and the posterior smooth surface for the transverse ligament .
The neural spine is , however , more produced anteriorly and less so behind .
In my ' Osteology of Marsupialia , ' I noted , as a result of observations on the skeleton of Macropus major , that " in the Kangaroo both the dentata and atlas have the transverse processes grooved merely by the vertebral artery"* .
I have since observed in Macropus laniger the circumscription of the groove by the development of a slender parapophysis , as in Diprotodon .
A similar vertebrarterial canal occurs in Phascolomys and Phascolarctos .
The neural spine of the axis in the Wombat resembles in shape that in the Diprotodon , but is rather more produced behind .
The hypapophysis is , however , a mere medial low ridge ; that in the Kangaroo is significantly more like the process in Diprotodon .
In both Macropus , Phas , and Phascolarctos a pair of conspicuous foramina near the hind part of the upper ( neural ) surface of the centrum lead to canals converging as they sink in the osseous substance to a common ( venous ) passage ; these are not present in Proboscidians ; a few minute irregular venous foramina may be seen on the corresponding surface of the axis vertebra .
The third ( Plate XLIV .
fig. 4 ) and two consecutive ( Cut .
fig. 5 , 3 , 4 ) cervical vertebrae resemble by their shortness those of the Wombat rather than of the Kangaroo ; they are by no means , however , so compressed from before backward as in the Proboscidians .
* Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. ii .
p. 394 ; see also Art .
Marsupialia , Cyel .
of Anat .
p. 276 .
In Diprotodon the length of the third cervical centrum is 1 inch 10 lines , the breadth of its hind articular surface is 4 inches 3 lines , the height of the vertebra is 8 inches .
The centrum is without hypapophysis , the vertical extent of the hind surface ( Plate XLIV .
fig. 4 , c ) is 2 inches 9 lines ; the two extremes of the transverse ellipse are almost angular .
The base of the parapophysis ( ib. and cut , fig. 5 , p ) extends from near this angle forward for 1J inch along the side of the centrum .
The upper surface of the centrum shows a large medial venous orifice .
Both margins of the rising neurapophyses are deeply notched for the " conjugational foramina , " and send off a small diapophysis ( ib. d ) to circumscribe above the vertebrarterial canal .
The neural spine ( ib. ns ) , 4 inches in height from the roof of the neural canal ( ib. is compressed from before backward , simple , obtusely rounded at the end , strengthened by a low medial ridge , both before and behind , along its basal half .
There is no such development of neural spine in the third cervical of Proboscidians ; in the larger herbivorous Marsupials it is as conspicuous as in Diprotodon , but with altered shape ; that in the Wombat most resembling the one in Diprotodon , but being relatively lower .
The fourth cervical ( Cut , fig. 5 , c 4 ) much resembles the third ; but , as in the Kangaroo , has a shorter spine , resembling , however , in shape that of the third , being compressed from before backward instead of from side to side as in Macropus .
The slight increase of size is in breadth , chiefly of the centrum , not in length or height .
The neural canal is wider and a little higher ; more space is made for the myelon as it traverses the more flexible part of the peck .
The large venous foramina and vertical canal are repeated on the upper part of the centrum ; the corresponding pair of foramina now also blend into a common fossa , as in the Wombat .
In the fifth cervical ( Cut , fig. 5 , c5 ) the neural spine gains in antero-posterior and loses in transverse thickness ; the vertical ridges are Fig5stronger , especially the one behind ; it appears to have been shorter than in the fourth vertebra* .
The centrum and neural canal have increased , chiefly transversely ; there is very little increase of length .
The parapophysis has gained in vertical extent .
In the series of mutilated vertebrae belonging to Mr. Boyd 's specimen of Diprotodon are two dorsals ( Plate XLIV .
figs. 5-8 ) .
They show the impres- _ .
^ ^ sions for the free articulation of the ribs both before Second to cervical vertebra , one-sixth and behind ( ib. figs. 6 \amp ; 7 , pi , pi ' ) , and are remarkable nat- size ' Diprotodon .
for the retention of the short proportion of the cervicals , and for the terminal bifurcation of the antero-posteriorly compressed spine ( ib. figs. 5 \amp ; 8 , ns ) .
They are not consecutive vertebrae , but were not far from one another in the anterior part of the dorsal series .
* It is so in the sketch sent me by Sir Thomas Mitcheze from Sydney ( Cut , fig. 5 ) ; but , amongst the damages to the specimens in their passage to London , the summit of this spine has been knocked off .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
As in this region the vertebrae in many Mammals decrease in breadth before regaining the size which then goes on augmenting to the lumbar region , I first take for description that ( Plate XLIV .
figs. 5 \amp ; 6 ) which with a broader centrum has a shorter as well as broader spine .
The fore-and-aft extent of the centrum is 2 inches at its lower part ; it slightly decreases towards its upper surface .
The breadth of the centrum is 4 inches 10 lines , above which this dimension is increased by the share contributed by the neurapo-physes ( ib. fig. 5 , n , n ) to the body of the vertebra ( c ) ; the sutural lines indicative of this share are plainly traceable on the terminal articular surface ( ib. fig. 5 , c ) , from which the epiphysial plate has become detached .
As the ends of both diapophyses and neural spines are broken off , the following dimensions of the vertebra are not the full ones , viz. of breadth 8 inches 6 lines , of height 9 inches 6 lines .
The width of the neural canal is nearly 4 inches , its height is fully 3 inches .
Both articular surfaces of the centrum are nearly flat , the anterior one in a very slight degree convex ; but both surfaces are epiphysial , with coarse furrows and lines affecting a radiate disposition , the extent of which rugosity indicates the complementary plate to have overlapped both elements of the vertebral body , viz. the neurapophysial ( fig. 5 , ' n , n ) and the central one ( ib. A prominence on the upper third of the side of the body indicates the lower boundary of the neurapophysis , and this part of the body holds the main part of the impressions ( pi , pi ' ) for the head of the rib , of which impressions the hinder is the larger .
The contour of the articular surfaces of the body is semicircular .
The neurapophyses , after contributing their share to the vertebral body , extend upward , outward , and a little forward , contracting into subcylindrical pedicles which suddenly expand to send oft the diapophyses ( ib. figs. 5 \amp ; 6 , d ) , prezygapophyses and postzygapophyses Before developing the latter processes the neurapophyses begin to bend inward , still ascending ; then they contract , especially from before backward , converge , and coalesce to form the , base of the antero-posteriorly compressed and laterally expanded spine ( ns ) .
The base of this spine is strengthened both before and behind by a low broad median ridge ; its terminal divisions diverge as they rise .
The undivided base forms a low obtuse eminence between them ( fig. 5 , ns ) .
The prezygapophysis ( fig. 6 , z ) projects forward as a semicircular shelf , the flat articular surface looking upward , with a very slight inclination downward and outward ; the postzygapophyses ( z1 ) , of somewhat smaller size , are supported each by a buttress of bone descending from the hinder and outer angle of the spine , and expanding with a prominent convexity to the articular surface .
The upper surface of the centrum , between the neurapophysial bases , shows the large venous fossa .
In the other dorsal vertebra ( Plate XLIV .
figs. 7 , 8 ) the diapophysis is entire on the left side ( fig. 8 , d ) , and expands into a protuberance with an articular surface ( fig. 7 , d ) 1 inch 9 lines by 1 inch 3 lines , for the tubercle of the rib on its lower half .
The neurapophysial parts of the centrum are traceable , and make a more definite rising at * This is the usual character of epiphyses completing compound bones , as , e. g. , at the proximal end of the three confluent metatarsals in the bird , at both ends of the two confluent metacarpals in the ruminant , \amp ; c. 544 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE EOSSIL MAMMALS O AUSTRALIA .
the upper part on each side the small intervening proportion of the centrum proper ( ib. fig. 8 , c ) .
Posteriorly they also slightly project ( fig. 7 , n ) beyond the flat surface of the centrum ( ib. c ) ; and a smooth tract of the neural canal ( fig. 8 , n\ n ' ) is continued backward upon each of these prominences .
The fore surface of the centrum is in a very slight degree convex ; both surfaces are epiphysial or rough , with the usual tendency to a radiate disposition of the fine furrows .
The postzygapophyses ( z ' ) are somewhat more prominent than in the former dorsal ( figs. 5 \amp ; 6 ) , and the neural spine slopes a little backward .
This process is narrower transversely than in fig. 5 , and is longer prior to its bifurcation ( fig. 8 , ns ) .
Its strengthening ridges , especially the anterior one , are more developed ; the bifurcation of the summit is repeated in this as in the foregoing vertebra , with slight divergence of the terminal prongs , both of which have lost their summits .
In the whole range of the Mammalian series I know of no dorsal vertebrae with characters like the subjects of figures 5-8 .
Where vertebrae are notable for their shortness and lamelliform type they are confined to the region of the neck , as , e. g. , in Proboscidia and Cetacea ; but the dorsal series , in these , promptly resumes the ordinary proportions of length of centrum .
Similarly , where the transversely bifurcate character of the neural spine is met with ( e. g. Elephant , Man ) , it is restricted to one or two of the cervical series ; in Diprotodon only is it known to exist in a dorsal vertebra .
What modification may ensue or at what distance from the neck in other or posterior dorsal vertebrae my present materials do not enable me to state .
I infer that the more usual proportions are acquired in the posterior dorsals from the slight increase presented in the following specimen , and from those which certain of the lumbar vertebrae present .
The specimen referred to , which forms part of the collection in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , consists of the centrum only .
It measures 2 inches 3 lines in antero-posterior diameter , 3 inches in vertical diameter , and 4 inches 9 lines in transverse diameter .
Both articular extremities are flat ; the epiphysial plates are anchylosed ; but where they are broken away the radiating rough lines , characteristic of the epiphysial surface , indicate that the union was tardy and had been recently effected before the animal perished .
This vertebra differs by its compressed form and the flattening of the articular ends from the dorsal vertebrae of the ordinary placental Pachyderms , but resembles in these characters the dorsal vertebrae of the Proboscidians ; in these , however , the breadth of the vertebral body is not so great as in the fossil .
From the cetacean vertebrae the present fossil is distinguished by the large concave articular surface at the upper and anterior part of the side of the body for the reception of part of the head of a rib ; this costal surface , which is not quite entire , appears to have been about 1^ inch in diameter .
The neurapophyses are anchylosed to the centrum , but the internal margins of their expanded bases are definable , and have been separated by a tract rather less than 1 inch in breadth , of the upper surface of the centrum ; at the middle of this surface there is a deep transversely oblong depression .
A similar depression is present in some dorsal vertebrae of the Megatherium and in the PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
anchylosed lumbar vertebra of the Mylodon ; but the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae in the great extinct Bruta are longer and narrower in proportion to their breadth than in the present fossil .
In the Kangaroo the upper surface of the body of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae is perforated by two vascular canals , which pass down vertically and open below by a single or double outlet .
In the Wombat the middle of the upper surface of the bodies of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae exhibits a single large and deep depression , which in the dorsal vertebrae has no inferior outlet , and in this character they closely resemble the present fossil .
The dorsal vertebrae of the Wombat are , however , longer in proportion to their breadth .
Thus the present mutilated vertebra alone would support the conclusion that there had formerly existed in Australia a mammiferous quadruped , superior to the Rhinoceros in bulk , and distinct from any known species of corresponding size .
It is interesting and instructive to find one well-marked character in it , viz. the median excavation on the upper part of the body , repeated in the same vertebrae of one of the largest of the existing Marsupialia .
The remaining evidences of vertebrae in the Boydian or purchased series of Diprotodont Fossils in the British Museum consist of five centrums and two pairs of detached terminal epiphyses of those elements .
The centrums , in the absence of any costal or haemapophysial depression , in their increased length and greater expanse of the neural canal , are referable to the lumbar series .
Three retain the coalesced bases of the neurapophyses , yet these do not develope diapophyses in the extent to which they are preserved .
The foremost of these lumbar centrums shows a length of 2 inches 4 lines at its lower part , increasing to 2 inches 8 lines at its upper part ; the others , with slight general gain of size , show the same proportions .
Thus the one which seems the last of the series has a length of 3 inches 3 lines at the lower part , and of 3 inches 8 lines at the upper part of the centrum .
Thus we may infer that the part of the spine from which these vertebrae have come was habitually bent in Biprotodon with the concavity downward .
The degree of increased length in the last over the longest of the other three centrums indicates two or three missing vertebrae intervening between those to hand .
The Kangaroo has six lumbar vertebrae , the Koala eight , the Wombats only four ( or five { Phascolomys latifrons ) .
Six lumbars is the rule in , and I incline to view Biprotodon as amenable thereto , rather than as repeating the exceptional formula of Phascolomys* .
In the foremost of the five fossil lumbar centrums a small protuberance from the upper and fore part of one side indicates the rudiment of a diapophysis ; it is not present on * As I was led to note in my * Osteology of Marsupialia , ' p. 396 , the number of free trunk-vertebrae is significantly constant in that order , whatever be the difference of costal formula ; thus , Phascolarctos has 11 costal , 8 lumbar , =19 ; Peiaurus , 12 costal , 7 lumbar , = 19 j Macropus , Phalangista , Perameles , Myrmecobius , Phascogale , Didelphys , Dasywrus , Sarcophilus , Thylacinushave severally 13 costal , 7 lumbar , =19 Phascolomys vombatus has 15 costal , 4 lumbar =19 .
the other side ; it may be a vertebra , as is sometimes seen in the Kangaroo and other mammals , transitional between the dorsal and lumbar series , having the characters of a rib-bearer on one side and not on the other .
A trace of roughness on the side of the fossil centrum corresponding to the protuberance on the other side , may indicate there a ligamentous attachment of a rudiment of the last free rib .
The present vertebra , whether interpreted as the last dorsal or first lumbar , shows the small extent to which those vertebrae gained in length as they receded in position .
The antero-posterior diameter at the under part of the centrum is 2 inches 5 lines , at the upper part 2 inches 10 lines ; the breadth of the anterior surface is 4 inches 10 lines , the vertical diameter of the same surface is 3 inches 9 lines .
The epiphysial plate adheres to this surface ; it is concentrically marked , thinning off to the centre , where it leaves a vacuity transversely oblong , 1 inch 4 lines by 1 inch in its diameters .
From the opposite surface the epiphysis has been detached , showing the radiate disposition of the rugae of the diaphysial surface , and the proportions contributed by the bases of the neurapophyses to the vertebral body .
In the next vertebral body , of similar dimensions , the anterior epiphysis is adherent , but with the line of suture conspicuous ; it is from 3 to 4 lines thick at the periphery , and thins off toward the centre , where it leaves a vacuity of about 1 inch in diameter .
The surface , for 1 inch at the periphery , is moderately convex , the rest is flat .
The free surface of the centrum is greatly and equably concave lengthwise .
At the middle of the neural surface is a transversely oblong venous fossa , 9 lines by 6 lines in diameters .
This centrum adheres by matrix to the succeeding one , which , repeating the characters above noted , retains about 1 inch of the neurapophysial pedicles or lamellae .
Each at its origin has a fore-and-aft extent of 2 inches , contracting to 1 inch 8 lines at the fractured end ; it rises nearer the fore than the hind end of the centrum .
The extreme thickness ( 1 inch ) is toward the fore part of the pedicle .
The transverse diameter of the neural canal at the broken ends of the pedicles is 3 inches 6 lines .
The venous fossa is repeated in this as a single median one ; but in another lumbar centrum the entry is divided by a median longitudinal tract of the neural surface , as is commonly the case in the Kangaroo .
In the third of these the left pedicle is preserved to a height of 2 inches , expanding then to an antero-posterior extent of 2 inches 3 lines , and a transverse one of 1 inch 5 lines ; at the lower contracted part of the neurapophysis these diameters are , respectively , 1 inch 9 lines and 1 inch .
Yet the whole of the outer surface is smooth without trace of outstanding transverse process ; whereas in both Kangaroo and Wombat that process comes off at the junction of the neurapophysis with the centrum .
We may therefore infer that the neural arch of the lumbar series was loftier in , as we have already seen it to have been in the two anterior dorsal vertebrae preserved .
The epiphysis is wanting from the hind surface of the third lumbar described , and the sutures of the neurapophyses with the centrum are there exposed .
They project a little beyond the epiphysial surface of the centrum .
The largest and hindmost of the present series of lumbars ( Plate XLIV .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
figs. 9 , 10 ) , the length of the centrum of which has been noted above , shows a breadth of hind surface ( fig. 10 ) of 5 inches 9 lines , its height being 4 inches ; the antero-pos-terior extent of the base of the pedicle is 2 inches 6 lines ; about 9 lines extent of the centrum extends backward beyond it .
The smaller pair of epiphysial vertebral plates ( ib. fig. 12 ) , cemented together by the matrix , have come , according to their size and shape , from the cervical series ; they are transversely elliptical , 4 inches 6 lines in long diameter , and 3 inches in short diameter .
The thicker free or peripheral margins ( 12 , a ) diverge from each other , and they thin off to a central vacuity ( 12 , c ) .
The larger pair ( ib. fig. 15 ) appear to be from the lumbar series ; they measure 4 inches 7^ lines across , and 3 inches 8 lines down the middle ; their central vacuity is transversely oblong , measuring 1 inch 3 lines by 1 inch .
These detached vertebral epiphyses are completely petrified .
The terminal epiphyses of the bodies of dorsal and lumbar vertebrae remain distinct , and come off in pairs attached by intervertebral substance in Kangaroos which have arrived at full growth .
I presume that the same circumstance occurred in the course of decomposition or maceration of the carcass and skeleton of ; hence the presence of such separate pairs of epiphyses receiving co-attachment from the matrix after separation from their proper centrums* .
Of the ribs , though few are entire , so many have reached me as suffice to show that , * Since the reception of the specimens of vertebrae above described , I have been favoured with two drawings , of the natural size , of a side view and end view of a lumbar vertebra of a Diprotodon , from St. Ruth 's Station , Condamine River , Queensland , by Dr. Fe .
Campbell .
In these drawings sufficient of the neural arch is preserved to show the base of the diapopbysis extending outward , at 1 inch 6 lines above the level of the upper surface of the centrum .
The breadth of the eentrum is 5 inches , its vertical diameter 4 inches ; the breadth of the neural canal is 3 inches 6 lines , the fore-and-aft extent of the centrum at its upper third is 2 inches 10 lines .
An oblique broad low ridge or rising of the outer surface of the pedicle rises to the lower part of the base of the neurapophysis .
The two drawings , of side and front views , of this vertebra have been made carefully , and T believe accurately , as regards admeasurements , by Mr. Campbell 's son , who found the vertebra , and whose letter to his father on the subject is as follows:\#151 ; ( Copy .
) " St. Ruth , 25th May , 1865 .
" The enclosed drawings I send to you to amuse you a little till I come down , speculating as to what the huge animal was .
I have the hone and some more , now in my possession .
A large top jaw with a few pieces of teeth sticking in it , and what looks like a 'blow-hole in the top\#151 ; some smaller shank bones , or something of the sort\#151 ; all fossil .
They ring like cast iron when knocked together .
too heavy to bring down with me :\#151 ; they are of a dark brick colour .
I will try and make drawings of the rest if I have time before I come down .
One of the vertebrae of a Bull looks very small indeed alongside this great hone .
( Signed ) " Hugh Campbell .
" In the letter enclosing his son 's drawings Dr. C. writes:\#151 ; " The hones he mentions in the letter and whose likeness is also enclosed herewith , I regret to say he was induced to part with to a gentleman to whom he was under particular obligations of friendship , and who had expressed a great desire to possess them .
" Should the present notice ever meet the eyes of the possessor of these fossils he may be assured that it would give me pleasure to make them subservient to the advancement of a knowledge of Diprotodon .
548 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
as in Marsupials and most Mammals , they vary in length , curvature , degree in which the groove for the intercostal vessels and nerve is excavated , distinction of head and tubercle , and relative position of the latter ( Plate L. 1\#151 ; u ) .
The longest specimen measures 2 feet 1 inch , following the convexity of its curve .
The tubercle is low , 3^ inches from the head ; the intercostal groove is shallow , and chiefly defined by a ridge-like production of the posterior border at the upper fourth of the rib , 3 or 4 inches in extent .
Beyond this the rib loses thickness and gains breadth , the latter dimension reaching to 1^ inch about one-third from the broken end .
Another specimen presents k greater degree of curvature .
The tubercle is better developed , has a more definite articular surface , extending upon the neck of the rib .
The broadest part of the rib ( 1 inch 9 lines ) is at the upper third of the bone .
This rib had a more anterior position in the chest than the former ; the extent preserved , following the convexity of the curve , is 1 foot 6^ inches .
A third specimen with head , tubercle , and intercostal groove well marked , is less curved than the former , and is larger than either of the above described !
A length of 1 foot 4 inches is preserved .
The fractured end is elliptic , 1 inch 9 lines in long diameter , 1 inch in short diameter ; but the rib midway between the end and the head attains a breadth of 2 inches .
This has come from nearer the middle of the chest .
The only entire specimen is a posterior rib , with the tuberosity relatively small and rough ; the head large , intercostal groove almost obsolete ; body of the rib straight along its distal half , which gradually expands , with loss of thickness to a breadth of 2 inches 2 lines .
The length of this rib , following the convex curve , is 1 foot 8 inches .
The lower extremity shows the roughened surface for the attachment of the costal cartilage .
The costal fragments yield little more than the character of size .
The vertebral end of one , which includes the tubercle , has a circumference below that part of 3^ inches .
Another fragment has a circumference of 4^ inches ; a third fragment is nearly 6 inches in circumference ; a fourth fragment shows a flatter shape .
From the shortness of the costigerous vertebrae and the size of the ribs , their interspaces must have been narrow .
Assuming with much confidence that the dorso-lumbar series in included nineteen vertebrae , I assign one more pair of ribs than in the Kangaroo , and reckon fourteen pairs in the dorsal series ( Plate L. ) .
S 6 .
Scapula.\#151 ; The scapula is represented in the Boydian collection of Diprotodont remains by an almost entire specimen of that of the left side ( Plate XLV .
) , and by a fragment of the one of the right side .
It is narrow in proportion to its length , and chiefly peculiar by the production of the subspinal plate anteriorly ( ib. a ) , whereby the usual proportions of the triangular mammalian scapula are reversed , the part answering to the base ( ib. being the apex , and PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
the articular end of the bone ( ib. # , c ) the base of the triangle , which is elongate and irregular .
The articular or glenoid cavity ( ib. d ) presents the usual oval shape with the small end upward ( ib. fig. 3 ) ; the concavity is deepest lengthwise , and the apical part is most produced .
The outer border beneath the acromion ( ) has been broken off , indicative of its prominence , which is better preserved in the articular cavity of the fragment of the right scapula , showing its resemblance to that part in Macropus .
This border subsides , becoming thick and convex as it approaches the small or coracoid end of the Fig. 6 .
cavity .
The lower border is continued into a rugged triangular surface beneath ( fig. 3 , a ) for the attachment of the long head of the triceps ; the upper apical part is produced , beak-like , beyond the base of the coracoid ( c ) .
The inner margin is low near the apex , but less obtuse than the corresponding part of the outer one ; it is more produced as it descends ; but this margin subsides gradually into the subscapular one .
The spine ( ib. fig. 1 , / * ) begins by a gradual elevation of the lower or hinder half of the hinder surface of the " base " ( b ) , which elevation contracts as it rises from that surface to a thickness of 1^ inch .
The free border , of this thickness , is also flat ; the spine gradually rising as it advances , describes a slight curve toward the upper or anterior costa ( g ) ; the lower margin of the free border becomes most produced , and , as the spine expands into the acromion ( e ) , this margin also expands and becomes rough for muscular attachments , and in the present specimen forms the most prominent part of the acromion ; but the end of this process is broken off .
From a pencil-sketch of this scapula made by Sir Thomas Mitchell when it arrived at Sydney ( Woodcut , fig. 6 ) , the acromion ( e ) continued to expand to an obliquely truncate end , having the upper or fore angle most produced , and , as it were , slightly twisted towards the coracoid ( c ) ( indicated by the dotted line in fig. 1 , Plate XLV .
) .
As the spine ( ib. f ) rises from the scapular plate , it becomes compressed or thinner beneath the free margin , and presents a smooth concave surface to each scapular fossa ( * , j ) .
Scapula of Dijrrotodon : one-fifth not .
size .
The coracoid process ( Plate XLV .
, c ) , arising from a base of 8 inches in extent , is subcompressed , with the outer surface concave as it extends toward the end of the process , which , however , is broken off .
The upper or front " costa " ( ib. g ) describes a strong concave curve as it recedes from the coracoid ; the middle third of its extent ( ib. ' ) , which was probably convex and produced , has been broken away .
Where it is again entire ( ib. \lt ; /')it describes a gentle concavity , and forms the outer border of a sudden thickening of that part of the basal end of the scapula .
The upper or basal three-fourths of this anterior border of the bladebone are curved " dorsad , " so as to bound or form the ( transverse ) hollow of the supraspinal fossa ( ib. fig. 1 , i ) .
The part broken from the upper costa ( / ) may have made the breadth of the fossa , as in the Kangaroo and most Marsupials , greater at its mid part than appears in this fossil .
The subspinal fossa ( ib./ ) increases in breadth from the basal to the articular end ( a ) of the scapula , singularly reversing its proportions in other Mammals .
In the Koala ( Phascolarctos ) this fossa retains its breadth through an extension of the lower costa nearer to the glenoid cavity than usual* .
The corresponding extension is proportionally greater in the scapula of the Megatherium ; but in Diprotodon it is continued as far forward as the neck of the scapula , with an increase of thickness , and a bend toward the " dorsum " of the scapula , increasing the depth of the concavity of this part of the subspinal fossa .
The border of the plate ( ib. a , a ' ) produced below or behind the glenoid cavity ( d ) , and having the same aspect , is very thick , concave lengthwise , convex across , with a rough slightly projecting insertional surface at its middle : a more rugged surface appears also at the angle a , where it joins the lower or hinder costa , but this is the seat of some mutilation of the fossil .
This costa ( a , b ) loses thickness as it recedes from the angle for one-fourth of its extent ; it regains a certain thickness and ruggedness for another fourth ( ) , where it is also bent toward the subscapular plane ; it then continues drawing nearer to the origin of the spine and finally thickens as it is lost in the obtuse contracted basal end ( b ) of the bladebone .
The long and narrow subscapular surface ( Plate XLV .
fig. 2 l ) presents a gentle concavity lengthwise , with a corresponding convexity across the middle , rather increased at the two ends ; the mid convexity is changed to a concavity by the in-bending of the part ( k ) of the lower costa above mentioned , The smooth subscapular .surface is broken only by the thick short triangular elevation ( ib. m ) extending from near the upper or fore angle of the base .
The singular , not to say unique , development of the U glenoidal " part of the inferior costa ( a , a !
) or subspinal plate , was doubtless correlated with some peculiarity of use or application of the fore limb .
As to the general shape of the scapula , I cannot suppress expressing the interest with which 1 have viewed in this old extinct Marsupial or im-placental form of Mammal the retention of so much of the archetypal or pleurapophy-sial proportions which one sees without surprise in inferior Vertebrates such as Mono-tremes , Birds , Reptiles , and Fishes .
* This peculiarity is figured in the * Cyclopaedia of Anatomy/ Art .
Marsupialia , p. 281 , fig. 106 .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
The total length of the above described scapula is 2 feet 3 inches ; the extreme breadth is 1 foot 2 inches ; the long axis of the glenoid cavity is 6 inches , the short axis 4 inches 2 lines ; the height of the spine at the base of the acromion is 4 inches .
Fragments of scapula , from the bed of the Condamine River , west of Moreton Bay , Australia , in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , placed with some doubt in the series of Diprotodont remains in my * Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia ' ( 4to , 1845 , p. 298 ) , can now be certainly referred to Dipr australis .
One of these fragments ( no. 1471 ) includes 4 inches of the interior part of the origin of the spine .
" The thickness of the neck of the scapula is 2 inches 9 lines ; that of the base of the spine is 1 inch .
The indication of the sudden rising of this thick spine from the plane of the scapula distinguishes it from that bone in the Rhinoceros , and its thickness is greater than in the largest Hippopotamus ; it is also relatively greater in comparison with the neck of the scapula than in the Elephant " ( p. 298 ) .
The specimen was thus differentiated , in 1845 , from all known Mammals of corresponding or approximate bulk , and is now seen to conform in the particulars cited with the bladebone of A portion of the glenoid cavity and neck of the scapula of a large Mammalian quadruped ( no. 1472 ) , from the same Australian deposits , shows similar dimensions to those in the entire scapula of Diprotodon australis .
S 7 .
Humerus.\#151 ; In Macropus the articular head of the humerus is subhemispherical , looks a little backward as well as upward ( the bone being held vertically ) , and overhangs the back part of the shaft .
The inner and outer tuberosities rise above the head , in front of it .
The inner tuberosity is thicker and shorter than the outer one , which extends ridge-like obliquely from without inward and forward where that end projects , forming the outside of the deep groove , dividing it from the inner tuberosity ; the groove expands and shallows as it descends , and is soon lost in the fore part of the shaft .
The inner tuberosity is supported on a columnar development of the fore and inner part of the shaft .
From the fore end of the oblong outer tuberosity the " deltoid " ridge extends halfway down the middle of the fore part of the shaft , being more or less prominent in different species .
In all the ridge attains its greatest breadth and prominence at its lower part before its sudden subsidence .
At the outer side of the shaft above the developed termination of the deltoid ridge , projects a short , thick , longitudinal ridge , with a rough obtuse surface .
Thus the fore part of the upper half of the humerus is divided into two facets , the inner one deepening upwards to the in ter-tuberous or bicipital groove ; the outer one broader and flatter , between the outer and the deltoid ridges .
The back part of the upper half of the humerus is also , but less definitely , divided into two longitudinal tracts ; the outer one flattened or slightly concave transversely where bounded by the outer ridge ; the inner one gradually contracting , with increased transverse convexity , to be continued into the ridge leading to the ento-condy-loid tuberosity .
The shaft of the humerus is more bent , with the concavity backward , than usual ; the distal end not being turned forward in the degree which gives the ordinary sigmoid shape to this bone in unguiculate mammals .
mdccclxx .
4 F The humerus in Marsupials is not described in either editions ( 1805 , 1835 ) of the ' Le9ons d'Anatomie Comparee .
' But in the ' Ossemens Fossiles ' ( 4to , tom .
iv .
p. 284 ) Cuvier notes the precaution requisite in the examination of the distal articular surface of the humerus in Marsupials on account of its resemblance to that in Carnivora .
In the posthumous 8vo edition of the ' Ossemens Fossiles , ' tom .
vii .
p. 276 , after the generalization as to the perforation of the inner condyle in , is added : " ainsi que chez les Didelphes et dans tous les animaux a bourse .
" So likewise De Blainville states that the inner condyle of the humerus is perforated , " chez tous les Didelphes sans exception , " using the term in his peculiar taxonomic sense as equivalent to the Marsupialia of other zoologists .
I have , however , pointed out exceptions to this rule in certain Dasyures ( Dasyurus Maugei ) , Phalangers ) , and Petaurists* .
So much it seemed requisite to premise , because the imperforate condition of the inner condyle also characterizes the bone in Diprotodon , differentiating it from the humerus in Macropus and Phascolomys , without , however , affecting the marsupiality of the great extinct Herbivore .
To the description of this bone in I now proceed .
The humerus ( Plate XLVI .
) is more nearly straight than in other Marsupials , and is remarkable for the feeble development of the ridges for muscular attachments .
At a glance one sees its relations to the restricted offices of support and locomotion with much less subserviency than in the smaller existing Marsupials to more varied applications of the fore limb .
The head of the bone ( ib. figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , \#171 ; , and fig. 3 ) rises above the tuberosities ( \#163 ; , c ) , forming a very large proportion of the upper end ( fig. 3 ) .
It has the usual degree of convexity , with a full oval contour , the long axis being transverse , and the smaller end next the outer tuberosity ; it overhangs the back part of the shaft at its inner two-thirds ( fig. 1 ) , but in a less degree than in the Kangaroo .
The inner tuberosity ( ) is represented by a low broad , rough ridge , extending from the inner side along the fore part of the periphery of the head to near the small outer end of the articular ball ; here it is interrupted by a wide but very shallow representative of the " bicipital groove .
" The outer tuberosity ( c ) projects in a greater degree from the outer side of the base of the head .
The broad , low , rounded angle between the fore and outer sides of the humeral shaft , continued from the fore end of the outer tuberosity ( fig. 2 , c ) , representing at first the outer side of the bicipital groove , descends and assumes rather more of the character of a muscular ridge at the mid length of the shaft ( fig. 2 , d ) before subsiding .
The homologue ( ib. e ) of the short external ridge in Macropus here projects as strongly from that side of the bone , but on the same transverse parallel with the lower , best developed part of the deltoid ridge ( d ) .
Consequently the external ridge is relatively lower placed than in the Kangaroos ; it is also relatively shorter , lengthwise , and stands out more abruptly at its upper part .
The representative of the deltoid ridge divides the fore part of the shaft unequally , and the broader division or tract ( fig. 2 , f ) is internal , the narrower division or tract { ib. g ) * Osteology of Marsupialia , he .
cit. p. 400 .
I subjoin the analysis of bones and teeth of Diprotodon australis , from the beds of the creeks , Darling Downs , by Walter Flight , D.Sc .
, Assistant in the Department of Mineralogy of the British Museum .
" Laboratory , Mineral Department , British Museum , 21st January , 1870 .
" Dear Sir , \#151 ; I have the honour to lay before you a Report on the chemical examination of a portion of a jaw-bone of the Diprotodon , which was received from Professor Owen at the end of last year .
" The method , devised by M. Scheurer-Kestner , and described by him in the ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. p. 1207 , was employed in this inquiry , and the following analytical determinations were made .
" 1*2462 gramme of bone , treated with 108 cub. centims. of hydrogen chloride , of specific gravity 1*04 ( from 5 ' to 6 ' Baum\#163 ; ) , for twenty-two hours at ordinary temperatures , left a residue which , after having been dried at 100 ' C. till it ceased to lose weight , amounted to 0-1953 gramme , and , after ignition , to 0-1772 gramme .
By this treatment the calcium phosphate , carbonate , and fluoride iron phosphate , \amp ; c. , as well as the ' soluble osseine ' of Scheurer-Kestner , are taken up by the acid , and there remain 14-259 per cent , of insoluble mineral matter ( chiefly silica coloured red with iron peroxide ) and 1-452 per cent , loss of weight by ignition , which in the memoir alluded to is taken to be insoluble osseine .
" The pounded bone , however , when heated did not change in colour to any great degree , nor emit the expected characteristic odour .
A nitrogen determination was next made with the following result .
0-541 gramme of bone , heated with soda-lime , and the resulting platinum ammonium chloride ignited , gave 0-002 gramme of platinum .
This amount of the metal corresponds with 0*00028 gramme of nitrogen .
Assuming that gelatine contains 17-5 per cent , of nitrogen , the above nitrogen corresponds with 0-0016 gramme of osseine , or 0-295 per cent. " The bone therefore contains about 5 per cent , of osseine altogether ; and the loss of weight , amounting to 1-452 per cent. , and regarded by Scheurer-Kestner as due to insoluble osseine , must be ascribed to a further loss of water which was not expelled at the temperature of 100 ' C. " As the amount of matter insoluble in hydrogen chloride appeared unusually large ( 14-259 per cent. ) , it was thought that the action of the acid might not have been complete .
In spite of my failing to detect phosphoric acid in this portion , I nevertheless thought it advisable to subject a further quantity of the bone to the action of a corresponding amount of acid of the same strength for a longer period .
1-0468 gramme of bone digested with 90-5 cub. centims. of hydrogen chloride for sixty-eight hours at ordinary temperatures left a residue weighing 0-1418 gramme , which , when ignited , was reduced to 0-1341 gramme .
In this case , then , 12-81 per cent , of mineral matter remained undissolved , whilst the loss by ignition amounted to 0-735 per cent. " With a view to determine the water present in this bone , 2-5046 grammes were heated for several hours , first at 100 ' C. and after at 120 ' C. ; the water lost amounted to 0*0932 gramme , or 3-721 per cent. After ignition and treatment with ammonium carbonate , the total loss was 0-1446 , or 5-774 per cent. Subtracting * ** scarcely be the cause of their disappearing , as flocks of sheep and cattle pasture over their fossil remains .
But as such an herbivore must have required a large body of water for his sustenance , the drainage of these plains , or the failing of those springs , the calcareous waters of which formed the concretions in the banks of the creeks , has been probably the cause of their retiring to more favourable localities , and I should not be surprised if I found them in the tropical interior , through which I am going to find my way to Pt. Essington."\#151 ; Letter dated " Sydney , 10th July , 1844 .
" || " Found about 6 feet below the surface in sinking a well."\#151 ; Note by Mr. Matne .
If " In the ' red bank ' of this [ Isaac 's ] creek."\#151 ; Note by Mr. Isaac .
** Found about 8 feet below the surface in sinking a well , lat. 137 ' 50 " S. , long .
39 ' 35 " E.\#151 ; Note by Mr. F. G. Waterhouse .
ft " From 100 feet below the surface , in digging a well , in the valley of the Condamine River."\#151 ; -Note by Mr. Hood .
tt " They were taken from a bed of sand and quartz conglomerate , at a depth of about 5 feet."\#151 ; Note by Mr. Burkett .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
from this number the amount of osseine present ( 0296 per cent. ) , there remain 5*479 per cent. , the proportion of water present in the hone .
" It may be mentioned that the hone contained a considerable quantity of vivianite , which gave to portions of its interior a dull blue colour .
" Analysis of Substances filling cavity of tooth of Diprotodon [ Pulp-cavity of lower incisor , Plate XLII .
fig. 5 , R. 0 .
] .
" The nitrogen in a portion of the above , which had been dried for many hours at 100 ' , was determined by the usual method .
" 0*9814 gramme of substance , heated with soda-lime , gave 0*0071 gramme platinum , which corresponds with 0*001 gramme nitrogen .
" Regarding this nitrogen as present in the form of osseine , and employing the number obtained by Fr\#163 ; mt ( 17*5 per cent. ) in his analysis of the gelatine of beef-hone as correctly representing the percentage of nitrogen in osseine , we find the substance from this fossil tooth to contain 0*58 per cent , of osseine .
" When heated in a tube it became slightly darker in colour , and emitted a faint empyreumatic odour .
" It was found to be composed of Much carbonate lime , Some phosphate lime , Much silica , iron oxide , \amp ; c. , Some water not removable at 1009 , The small portion of organic matter already mentioned .
I am , dear Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " To Professor Story-Maskelyne , \#171 ; Walter Flight .
" Keeper of the Mineral Department , British Museum/ ' Table of Admeasurements .
Skull .
Feet .
Inches .
Lines .
Length from occipital condyle to fore end of premaxillary ... ... ... ... ... 3 , 0 0 Breadth between outer sides of zygomata ... ... ... ... ... . .
" . .
, .
1 6 0 Depth to lower border of mandible at the orbit ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 10 Q Depth to outlet of socket of upper m 1 , at the orbit ... ... . .
1 0 0 Breadth of occiput ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
* * ... ... ... * ... . .
1 1 0 From lower border of foramen magnum to middle of superoccipital ridge . .
0 9 9 Breadth of cranium at middle of temporal fossa and at the level of the upper part of the zygomata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0 6 6 Depth of facial part anterior to the orbit ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... o 8 0 Depth of facial part at fore end of nasals ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0 10 0 ' Depth of zygoma at the lower end of the malomaxillary suture ... ... .
0 4 0 Length of mandible from back of condyle to outlet of incisive sockets ... .
2 0 .
0 Depth from summit of coracoid process ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 1 0 Fore-and-aft breadth of ascending ramus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
... ... ... ... 0 \#166 ; 7 * 0 Depth of horizontal ramus at the socket of m 1 0 5 0 Length of symphysis ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..* ... ... ... ... . .
0** 6 0 Greatest depth of symphysis ... ... ... .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0 3 6 Length of upper ineisiVG alveolar series ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
9 4 6 Length of upper molar alveolar series ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... fti \amp ; $ Length of lower molar alveolar series ... ... ... ... ... .
; ... ... ... ... .
0 9 9 Vertebrae .
Length of vertebra dentata , including odontoid process--Height of vertebra dentata , including odontoid process--Length of the body of third cervical vertebra ... ... ... ... Breadth of the body of third cervical vertebra ... ... ... .
Height of third cervical vertebra ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Length of the body of an anterior dorsal vertebra ... ... . .
Breadth of the body of an anterior dorsal vertebra ... ... .
Height of the same vertebra ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Length of the body of an anterior lumbar vertebra ... ... . .
Length of the body of a posterior lumbar vertebra ... ... . .
Breadth of the body of a posterior lumbar vertebra ... ... .
Longitudinal extent of sacrum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Scapula .
Length ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth , across the humeral end ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Breadth , of base , at subsidence of spine ... ... ... ... ... ... Humerus .
Length ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Circumference ( least ) of shaft ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( transverse ) of upper proximal end ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( transverse ) of lower end ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Breadth , extreme ( transverse ) , of lower articular surface . .
Breadth ( fore-and-aft ) of radial condyle ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( fore-and-aft ) of ulnar condyle ... ... ... ... .
Breadth ( fore-and-aft ) of intermediate trochlea ... ... ... .
Pelvis .
Breadth across fore part of ilia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Breadth across antero-inferior iliac spines ... ... ... ... .
From fore part of sacro-iliac symphysis to the ischial spine From hind part of sacro-iliac symphysis to the ischial spine Breadth between ischial spines ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Femur .
Length ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Circumference ( least ) of shaft ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( transverse ) of upper end ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( extreme transverse ) of lower end ... ... ... ... ... .
Circumference of head ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Breadth ( transverse ) of middle of shaft ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( fore-and-aft ) of middle of shaft ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( fore-and-aft ) of inner condyle ... ... ... ... ... ... Tibia .
Length ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Circumference ( least ) of shaft ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( transverse ) of upper end ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Breadth ( greatest ) of lower end ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Feet .
Inches .
Lines .
0 6 3 0 8 4 0 1 10 0 4 3 0 8 0 0 2 0 0 4 10 0 10 6 0 2 4 0 3 3 0 5 0 0 6 0 2 5 0 1 2 0 0 6 0 2 6 6 0 10 0 0 6 0 0 9 6 0 6 10 0 3 6 0 3 0 0 1 11 2 8 0 1 9 0 0 10 6 0 4 0 0 6 9 2 6 0 1 0 0 1 3 6 0 8 6 1 2 0 0 4 5 0 2 6 0 7 9 1 5 9 0 8 0 0 8 0 0 5 0 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
575 Description of the Plates .
PLATE XXXV .
Fig. 1 .
Side view of skull of Diprotodon australis:\#151 ; one-fifth not .
size .
Fig. 2 .
Back view of skull of Diprotodon australis:\#151 ; one-fifth not .
size .
Fig. 3 .
Front view of skull of Diprotodon australis:\#151 ; one-fifth not .
size .
Fig. 4 .
Proportions of malar and squamosal forming glenoid cavity:\#151 ; one-fifth not .
size .
Fig. 5 .
Side view of skull , in outline , of Macropus laniger:\#151 ; one-fifth not .
size .
PLATE XXXVI .
Fig. 1 .
Outer side of first incisor , upper jaw:\#151 ; not .
size .
Fig. 2 .
Inner side of first incisor , upper jaw:\#151 ; not .
size .
[ An extent of an inch of the tooth is wanting at the place of fracture .
] Fig. 3 .
Outer or enamelled side of working extremity of a first incisor .
Fig. 4 .
Outer or enamelled side of working extremity of a first incisor from another individual .
Fig. 5 .
Section , vertical and transverse , of premaxillary alveoli , with the first incisors , i 1 , in situ : i 2 , end of the socket of the second incisor ; i 3 , part of that of the third incisor .
Fig. 6 .
Basal or inserted end of first incisor ; the margin mutilated .
Fig. 7 .
Basal or inserted end of second incisor .
All the figures are of the natural size .
PLATE XXXVII .
Fig. 1 .
Outer side view of the right upper molars , in situ , of probably a female Diprotodon .
Fig. 2 .
Grinding-surface of ditto .
Fig. 3 .
The three last molars of another Dipro .
Fig. 4 .
Grinding-surface of crown of last molar ( m 3 ) of a larger Diprotodon .
Fig. 5 .
Front view of the same tooth .
Fig. 6 .
Back view of the same tooth .
All the figures are of the natural size .
PLATE XXXVIII .
Fig. 1 .
Outer side view of the right upper molars , in , of a large , probably male , Diprotodon .
Fig. 2 .
Grinding-surface of ditto , with part of bony palate .
Fig. 3 .
Hind surface of last molar ( m3 ) of another Diprotodon .
Fig. 4 .
Front surface of the same tooth .
All the figures are of the natural size .
4 i 576 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
PLATE XXXIX .
Fig. 1 .
Outside view of last upper molar ( m3 ) of a small , probably female , Fig. 2 .
Outside view of last upper molar ( m 3 ) of a larger , probably male , Diprotodon .
Fig. 3 .
Sockets and ends of roots of penultimate and last upper molars .
Fig. 4 .
Outside view of lower incisor [ an extent of an inch is wanting at the place of fracture ] .
Fig. 5 .
Working surface of exposed end of lower incisor .
Fig. 6 .
Transverse section at its emergence from the socket .
Fig. 7 .
Side view of second upper incisor ( i2 ) .
Fig. 8 .
Working surface of the same tooth .
PLATE XL .
Molar teeth of the lower jaw .
Fig. 1 .
Outer side view of second molar ( d 4 ) of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 2 .
Working surface of second molar ( d 4 ) of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 3 .
Working surface of second molar of an older , probably female , Diprotodon .
Fig. 4 .
Working surface of second molar of an old , probably male , Diprotodon .
Fig. 5 .
Outer side view of third molar ( m 1 ) of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 6 .
Working surface of third molar ( m 1 ) of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 7 .
Working surface of third molar ( m 1 ) of an older , probably female , Diprotodon .
Fig. 8 .
Working surface of third molar ( ml ) of an old , probably male , Diprotodon .
Fig. 9 .
Outer side view of fourth molar ( m 2 ) of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 10 .
Working surface of fourth molar ( m2 ) of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 11 .
Working surface of fourth molar ( m 2 ) of mature , probably male , Diprotodon .
Fig. 12 .
Outer side view of crown of germ of fifth molar of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 13 .
Front view of fifth molar of a mature Diprotodon .
Fig. 14 .
Working surface of penultimate lower molar of Macropus Atlas .
Fig. 15 .
Working surface of penultimate lower molar of a Malayan Tapir .
Fig. 16 .
Working surface of crown of incomplete fifth molar of a young Diprotodon .
Fig. 17 .
Working surface of penultimate molar ( m 2 ) of an old Diprotodon .
Fig. 18 .
Working surface of last molar ( m 3 ) of an old Diprotodon .
Figures 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 16 are from the same individual .
All the figures are of the natural size .
PLATE XLI .
Fig. 1 .
Outside view of anterior part of mandible and teeth 1 , 4 , m 1 ) of an immature Diprotodon : the first molar ( d3 ) is given in outline .
Fig. 2 .
Inside view of anterior part of the same mandible and teeth ( i l , d 3 restored in outline , d4 , m 1 ) .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
Fig. 1 .
Section of upper molars ( m 1 , m2 , m3 ) of a mature , not old , Diprotodon .
Fig. 2 .
Inside view of mandible and teeth of ditto : reduced to one-sixth .
Fig. 3 .
Back view of mandibular condyle : reduced to one-sixth .
Fig. 4 .
Front view of ditto .
Fig. 5 .
Section of anterior part of mandible and incisor tusk of an immature Diprotodon .
PLATE XLIII .
Fig. 1 .
Axis , or vertebra dentata:\#151 ; not .
size .
Fig. 2 .
Portion of atlas vertebra:\#151 ; not size .
PLATE XLIY .
Fig. 1 .
Front view of axis .
Fig. 2 .
Under view of axis .
Fig. 3 .
Back view of axis .
Fig. 4 .
Back view of third cervical vertebra .
Fig. 5 .
Back view of an anterior dorsal vertebra .
Fig. 6 .
Side view of the same dorsal vertebra .
Fig. 7 .
Side view of a succeeding dorsal vertebra .
Fig. 8 .
Back view of the same vertebra .
Fig. 9 .
Side view of the body of a lumbar vertebra .
Fig. 10 .
Back view of ditto .
Fig. 11 .
Under view of ditto .
Fig. 12 .
Epiphyses of the body of a cervical vertebra : a , edge- or side-view .
Fig. 13 .
Epiphyses of the body of a lumbar vertebra : , edge-view .
All the figures are one-third the natural size .
PLATE XLY .
Fig. 1 .
Outer surface or " dorsum " of the left scapula .
Fig. 2 .
Inner or subscapular surface of the left scapula .
Fig. 3 .
Articular end , with glenoid cavity of the left scapula .
One-third the not size .
PLATE XLVI .
Fig. 1 .
Back view of left humerus .
Fig. 2 .
Front view of left humerus .
Fig. 3 .
Proximal end of left humerus .
Fig. 4 .
Distal end of left humerus .
Fig. 5 .
Inner side view of distal third of a right humerus .
One-third the not .
size .
578 PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE FOSSIL MAMMALS OF AUSTRALIA .
PLATE XLVII .
Fig. 1 .
Under or " haemal " view of the pelvis Fig. 2 .
Upper or " neural " view of the sacrum and right half of the pelvis .
Fig. 3 .
Front view of the sacrum .
Fig. 4 .
Acetabular cavity .
[ See 4 Admeasurements ' in text for scale of reduction .
] PLATE XLVIII .
Fig. 1 .
Front view of femur .
Fig. 2 .
Outside view of femur .
Fig. 3 .
Section of middle of shaft of femur .
Fig. 4 .
Lower articular end of femur .
Fig. 5 .
Inside view of lower end ot femur .
One-third not .
size .
PLATE XLIX .
Fig. 1 .
Hind view of femur .
Fig. 2 .
Front view of tibia .
Fig. 3 .
Outside view of tibia .
Fig. 4 .
Upper end of tibia .
Fig. 5 .
Lower end of tibia .
Plate L. Restoration of the skeleton of Di australis:\#151 ; one-twelfth not .
size .
Owen , .
Phil. Trans. MDCCCLXXL .
Plate .
XXXV " .
no. ai.'vmwwiieyiitb- , W. West iaxrp .
uwens .
Fhil .
Trouts ML CCCTXtPkcte XXXVI " .
- mim WfMm Mm H Jwm YJwmtm pfffli faspi G.tt .
Ford W. " West imp GH .
Ford .
WiTWeet imp .
Fful .
Trcoxe .
MDC'CCL2X .
Plate , TOVflT West imp Jrhil .
TrartsMDGCGLXX .
JPlate XXXIX .
Phil. 2W.MDCCCLXX : Plate XL G- \#177 ; L. \#165 ; ordl W.)N**l amp Owen*- .
Phil. rra^.MD CCCIiXX .
Plate XLI LOWER TEETH , YOUNG DIPROTODON .
Orreri ' .
Phil. Trans. MDCCClxXI .
Pk^XIJI .
IM iRk. . .
iwj G.H.ra*a West iwj .
Owe* t Phil. Trane MDCCCLU .
Rate , XL1II W.ILWesley 11th. .
W.West imp .
\lt ; Wl " iM MDCCCLSC .
Flattim .
W !
H. Wesley litib W.Weei imp .
Ov/ O'b .
Bdl .
Trane .
MD CCCL2X .
XI , V. WE Wesley lifil .
W.West imp Owen .
Phil , TWs .
MDCCCLXX .
FLaiz XLH .
V7 .
K. Wesley li\#163 ; k W-West impCireri ' j-rbLO .
Jr6ateALiV.ll .
WlVest xxn % WElWesUy-litk , Owen- PhiL .
Trane .
MD CCCLXX .
Plate 'XLVIE W , H Wesley Util .
" W.Wesb TWTjr ) Phil Trans. MDCCCL1X .
Plate , XL1X .
\\gt ; Y , H .l/ Veisley liili .
W.YVWi .
Ow\amp ; h. PJuL .
Tr'ansMDCCCLXX FUvU .
I. K.Q.del .WH .Wealej litki W .West imp

