Further Observations on Slip-Bands in Metallic Fractures .
557 " Further Observations on Slip-Bands in Metallic Fractures.\#151 ; Preliminary Note .
" By Walter Rosenhain , B.A. , B.C.E. Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.R.S. Received February 9 , \#151 ; Read February 16 , 1905 .
[ Plate 14 .
] The main purpose of the present paper is to describe what the author believes to be a novel method of investigating the micro-structure of metals , and to give some account of preliminary results obtained by its aid .
The method was devised in order to throw further light on the true nature of slip-bands , and the preliminary results relate mainly to this question .
The investigation described in this paper is thus a further development of researches carried out in the first place by Professor J. A. Ewing , F.R.S. and the author jointly ( " The Crystalline Structure of Metals , " Bakerian Lecture , 1899 ) , * and subsequently by the present author alone ( " The Plastic Yielding of Iron and Steel .
" ) !
In the course of correspondence on the latter paper , M. F. Osmond drew the attention of the author to certain experimental facts concerning the behaviour of slip-bands under oblique illumination , which had formerly escaped attention .
The difficulty met with in convincing M. Osmond of what the author believes to be the true interpretation of these phenomena has led him to seek another means of examining the character of slip-bands , which should not be based upon the interpretation of effects of illumination .
A direct means of examining the surface configuration of a piece of metal upon which slip-bands have been produced would be presented by a transverse section of such a specimen , provided that the section could be produced with an absolutely sharp edge , , and that the sectional elevation of the features in question were large enough to be visible under the microscope .
The difficulties in the way of obtaining a section even approximately satisfying the first of these conditions are , however , considerable .
No useful result can be obtained by cutting the specimen through and simply polishing the exposed section .
It is a well-known fact that the extreme edges of specimens prepared by the usual methods of polishing are always more or less rounded off , so that it becomes impossible to focus upon any definite edge with high-power lenses ; and even apart from this defect , there would be no guarantee that the edge represented a true section of the pre-existing surface , since the processes of cutting , grinding , and polishing would probably fray out the edge and remove some of the weaker or more delicate features .
In some departments of optics a somewhat similar * ' PHI .
Trans. , ' A , 1899 , vol. 193 , pp. 353 to 375 .
f 'Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute , * 1904 , pp. 335 to 390 .
Mr. W. Eosenliain .
Further Observations on [ Feb. 9r piobleni is met with , and is satisfactorily overcome by embedding the glass in pitch , supported by other pieces of glass .
1 he author has adopted this principle of supporting the surface , which m section becomes the edge , by means of an adherent layer of hard material ; but the conditions which such a layer must satisfy for the--pin poses of metallography are very stringent .
The adherent layer should lie of approximately the same hardness as the metal under examination .
It must adhere to it with extreme closeness , and with strength enough to lesist the jirocesses of cutting , grinding , and polishing ; there must be no chemical action on the surface- of the metal specimen , and the-adherent layer must be free from grit , which would prevent the polishing of the transverse section .
Finally , it is desirable that the piotecting layer should be attached without heating the specimen , as even moderate elevations of temperature frequently affect the microstructure of strained metal .
This last condition eliminates such substances as pitch or fusible alloys , which were , moreover , found unsatisfactory in other respects also .
The difficulty of cutting and polishing eliminates the majority of cements and plasters .
The author was therefore led to use a deposit of another metal obtained by electrolytic means , and this method has proved satisfactory .
The specimens used consisted of strips of the mildest steel , such as is used for transformer sheet , and after preparation an electro-deposit of cojaper was applied to them .
By first bending the strips into a flat U shape , short portions of their length could be polished in the-usual manner for microscopic examination ; subsequently the strips could be readily strained and even broken in tension by means of an ordinary vice provided with clamping-plates attached to the jaws .
The slip-bands and other features of the specimens having been satisfactorily observed , electro-deposition was proceeded with .
The specimens could not be immersed directly in the usual acid solution of copper sulphate used in copper-plating , as the surface would have been attacked and spoilt by the action of simple substitution ; they were accordingly first coated with a thin film of copper in a bath of copper cyanide under the action of a very weak current , and were only then removed to the usual bath where deposition could be carried on as rapidly as is consistent with the formation of a solid and coherent deposit .
The copper deposit was generally allowed entirely to envelope the strips of iron , and deposition was carried on until a thickness of 4 to 5 mm. was reached .
This occupied from 8 to 14 days.* The specimens were then cut across , generally in a direction roughly parallel to the direction of the original tensile strain .
In order to * The electro-deposition on the majority of the specimens here referred to was carried out by Mr. S. Field , at the Northampton Institute , Loudon , and the author is greatly indebted to his skill and kindness .
1905 .
] Slip-Bands in Metallic Fractures .
obtain a satisfactory polish , however , the ordinary method of polishing with emery papers , followed by rouge , had to be ' slightly modified ; not only is it difficult to polish electro-deposited copper by means of rouge , but it was found that this polishing medium rapidly eroded a deep groove between the copper and iron , thus defeating the object of the method .
After some trials , a satisfactory polishing medium for this and other purposes where surface erosion is undesirable was found in calcined oxide of magnesium .
The powder , as purchased under the description of " chemically pure light oxide of magnesia , " was used by the author without further treatment , but still better results could no doubt be obtained by using an elutriated product .
The magnesia powder is used in much the same way as rouge ; a revolving disc of metal is covered with several layers of fine well-washed calico , and fed with a thin paste of magnesia and water ; it is , however , essential that only distilled water should be used , as the magnesia becomes gritty in the presence of dissolved salts .
In any case , its use requires some care , as such a magnesia disc , if allowed to dry , becomes hard and useless .
The section , when satisfactorily polished by means of magnesia , is not yet ready for detailed examination ; even when the grinding on emery has been carried so far that very little polishing is required , it is found that a considerable amount of metal has been smeared or dragged over the surface , more or less obliterating the true boundary line which it is desired to examine .
In order to overcome this obstacle , it is advisable so to arrange matters that the last rubbing on emery paper shall be done in a direction approximately parallel to the boundary of the two metals ; the direction of rubbing during the final polishing should then be at right-angles to the boundary , and the specimen should be so held on the revolving disc that the unavoidable tendency to drag or smear will be such as to draw the iron over the copper on the side where the boundary is to be examined .
Fig. 1 illustrates this point on an exaggerated scale ; the diagram .
Fig. 1 .
- Copper 1 c 1 ron : Copper represents the face of the section , AB representing the boundary between iron and copper which gives the sectional view of the previously 560 Mr. W. Kosenhain .
Further Observations on [ Feb. 9 , prepared surface , while the arrow C indicates the proper direction of rubbing during the final polishing process.* The film of metal smeared over the boundary under these circumstances is extremely thin , f and can be removed by slight etching , preferably by means of a reagent which dissolves the iron while leaving the copper untouched .
Such a reagent is found in a 10-per-cent .
solution of picric acid in alcohol , acting for about 30 seconds .
This treatment leaves a clearly defined boundary line appearing under a certain incidence of " vertical " illumination as a narrow black line , and under other illumination being visible merely by the colour-contrast between the iron and copper .
Even under the highest power of the microscope the boundary line can be seen sharply in focus , but it then becomes evident that there is always a very slight difference of level between copper and iron , and that the black line seen at the boundary under certain conditions of illumination is the shadow of the edge of the copper projected on the iron .
As the copper is entirely unacted upon by the etching reagent , the edge of the copper may be taken as the true outline of the transverse section of the previously prepared surface .
When a previously polished and etched specimen of iron which has had slip-bands developed upon its surface by strain is treated and examined in this way , the boundary line shows well-marked steps or serrations , readily visible under a magnification of 1000 diameters .
It was , however , necessary to show that these were really the sections of slip-bands , and were not due to any of the other processes gone through by the specimen , such as the initial etching of the prepared surface or the electro-deposition itself .
For this purpose a series of test specimens were prepared and treated in a similar manner .
The first of these had been polished in the initial stage , but neither etched nor strained , and the boundary in the transverse section showed an almost unbroken straight line , thus proving that the electro-deposition in no way produced irregularities on the boundary ; in fact , the extreme closeness of adhesion of the deposit , and the accurate manner in which it follows the minutest details of the prepared surface , is a most remarkable feature of the whole process .
It was at first thought that the examination of such boundaries might throw light on the mode of adhesion of electrolytic deposits , but none of the features observed afford any evidence on that question .
In a second specimen the initial surface had been polished and etched , but not strained , and here also there was an entire absence * The special process of polishing here described was worked out in conjunction with Mrs. W. Rosenhain , who entirely carried out its application .
f Mr. Beilby believes such surface films of metal to be transparent , but in the present instance , where one metal was smeared over the other , transparency would have been easily detected , but no evidence of its existence was found .
Rosenkain .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , v74 , Plate 14 .
1905 .
] Slip-Bands in Metallic Fractures .
561 of steps or serrations in the boundary in the transverse section .
Although the etching had been carried rather far , so that the outlines of the crystals on the initial surface were very well marked , yet the differences of level between adjacent crystals , which are one result of etching , were only barely visible on the transverse section .
A third specimen was polished and strained without any preliminary etching , and examination of a transverse section showed steps and serrations in the boundary line similar to those found on specimens which had been etched before being strained , but they appeared to be somewhat smaller and slightly less well-defined .
It has thus been shown that these steps or serrations in the boundary line are found in previously strained specimens , whether etched or not , but that they are not found in unstrained specimens .
The author there fore feels justified in concluding that the steps seen in transverse sections of strained specimens are the sectional views of slip-bands .
Fig. 2 ( Plate 14 ) is a photomicrograph of an example of these steps , under a magnification of 1000 diameters .
It will be seen that the steps , although very minute , are perfectly distinctive , and that they could not be mistaken for generally rounded foldings of the surface ; they possess , in fact , a general geometrical character , which the author regards as conclusive evidence that they are caused by slip on cleavage or gliding planes of the crystals , and not by any folding or crumpling of the metal .
On the other hand , these steps as seen in section are so minute that it is not very safe to draw conclusions as to the details of their configuration ; under the most critical conditions of observation , the upper edges of these steps do not appear to be sharply angular , but rather to be rounded off slightly , and in some cases they even appear to possess a minute crest or ridge .
Such a configuration would readily account for some of the phenomena pointed out by Osmond , but the dimensions of these details are so near the limit of resolving power of the lenses used by the author ( Zeiss 3 mm. apochromat .
oil-immersion , 1'40 N.A. ) that no great reliance can be placed upon their apparent shape , particularly as the tendency , of microscopic vision is to obliterate minute angles whose dimensions lie near the limits of resolution .
In general terms , however , there can be no doubt that the sectional views of slip-bands obtained by the author strongly confirm the theory of deformation by slip , and in order to emphasise this confirmation the diagram , Fig. 3 , is given for comparison with the photomicrograph , Fig. 3 .
/ / / / 562 Further Observations on Slip-Bands Metallic Fractures .
Fig. 2 ( Plate 14 ) .
( The diagram is a replica of one originally used by Professor Ewing and the present author to illustrate their explanation of the character of slip-bands , see paper referred to above .
) The change ol direction of the steps on passing from one crystal to another , as indicated on the diagram , is readily observed on the actual sections .
' The method above described of supporting the surface of a metal specimen by means of an electrolytic deposit so as to render possible the production of accurate transverse sections , is capable of application to a number of questions .
The author is engaged in applying it to one of these , viz. , the study of fractures produced in various ways .
The difficulty of obtaining satisfactory sections of fractures has hitherto stood in the way of systematic investigation of the path taken by fractures ; the photomicrograph , Fig. 4 ( Plate 14 ) , shows how the present method overcomes this difficulty ; it represents a section through a " fibrous " fracture of a piece of very mild steel , under a magnification of 90 diameters .
As compared with the sections of slip-bands , the details of such a fracture are very large , but even under the highest magnification the sharpness of the boundary is maintained , and it is even possible to follow the path of the fracture among the lamellae of the pearlite in this steel .
The investigation of flaws , of the edges and cuts of cutting tools are further examples of questions which can be investigated by the aid of the method here described .
Specimens of iron and steel for the experiments here described have been very kindly supplied to the author by Messrs. Joseph Sankey , of Bilston , and Messrs. Cammed , Laird and Co. , Limited , of Sheffield .
The cost of some of the apparatus and a portion of the expense of this investigation have been defrayed out of a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , and the author is also indebted in this connection to the Council of the Iron and Steel Institute for the award of an Andrew Carnegie Research Scholarship .

