109 The Inheritance of Colour in the Stick-Insect , Carausius morosus .
By E. W. MacBride , F.R.S. , and Miss A. Jackson .
( Received June 1 , 1915 .
) [ Plates 4 and 5 .
] The stick-insect , Carausius ( .
Dixippus ) morosus , is an inhabitant of Southern India .
The genus Carausius is closely allied to the genus from which the principal feature which separates it is a keeled sternum on the mesothoracic segment in Carausius , and the absence of such a keel in Dixippus .
In Carausius morosus this keel is obscure , and Wattenwyl and Redtenbacher ( 1908 ) , whose classification we follow , include this species in the genus Carausius on general grounds .
Other authors have assigned the species to Dixippus , whence it comes that in the literature the species is frequently referred to as Dixippus morosus .
It has been known for some time that this insect exhibited marked colour varieties , and it occurred to us that it would be an interesting research to determine the laws governing the inheritance of these variations .
Our material consisted of a batch of eggs received from India in 1911 .
A preliminary research by the senior author in 1912 yielded such curious , results that it was determined to take up the investigation in detail , and to this subject the junior author has devoted the last two years .
Before detailing the results at which we have arrived , it will be desirable to give an outline of our previous knowledge of the subject .
The life-history , habits , and principal colour variations of Carausius morosus were dealt with in a paper by Meissner ( 1909 ) , who received a batch of 300 larvae which had just hatched , and reared them until maturity was attained .
It is almost certain , however , that in supposing his larvae to be just hatched Meissner was mistaken , and that in reality they had completed their first moult when he received them , for he asserts that egg-laying begins after six moults , whereas according to our observations seven moults are passed through before sexual maturity is attained .
All his specimens were green when he received them , but out of 41 adults successfully reared 17 were green and 24 brown .
He states that when the brown insects are kept in the dark between the fourth and fifth moult the darkness of their colour becomes intensified .
De Sinety , in a paper dealing with the biology and anatomy of the ?
Phasmidae ( 1901 ) , includes Carausius morosus amongst the species he investigated .
He reared both males and females , and commits himself to .
the VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. K 110 Prof. E. W. MacBride and Miss A. Jackson .
extraordinary statement that the male proceeds from a fertilised egg , whereas the female is parthenogenetically produced .
He kept a dozen larvae in darkness from hatching , and found that they began to turn dark about the third moult .
Sehleip ( 1911 ) deals with the colour varieties of the adult insect and with the changes in colour produced by variation in light .
He classifies the adult varieties of coloration into four types\#151 ; ( a ) green , ( \amp ; ) green with yellowish spots , ( c ) yellowish brown , and brown .
Of these types ( a ) included half the individuals , ( b ) about a quarter , ( c ) about 5 per cent. , and ( d ) about a quarter .
Examination of the ectoderm reveals the fact that three distinct pigments are concerned in producing the colour , viz. , a green pigment distributed in small grains throughout the cytoplasm of the cells , a brown pigment distributed in large round grains in the base of each cell , and a yellowish-red pigment distributed in angular masses near the centre of the cell in the vicinity of the nucleus .
In the green variety of insect there is always a certain amount of brown pigment present .
In the reddish and brown varieties the green pigment is absent and is replaced by greyish dots .
Schleip maintains that the brown varieties become darker when kept in the dark\#151 ; contrary to the general rule for such changes , because melanic pigmentation of all kinds when subject to change usually becomes lighter in the dark .
This increase in the darkness of brown individuals is due , according to him , to the streaming of the brown pigment over the cell .
The brown pigment granules leave their basal position and stream over the cell .
We may say at once that we have not been able to confirm these observations of Schleip ; but whether they are well founded or not they have no bearing on the question of there being at least two well marked categories of insects so far as relates to colour , viz. , those with green pigment and those without .
It is obvious also that in the green category belong all those subdivisions which can be described as olive-green and green with spots .
Methods Employed .
Our preliminary experiments showed us that the insects reared from the eggs with which we began our research were in all cases parthenogenetic females .
These when mature acquire a bright patch of scarlet coloration on the inner sides of the femora of the forelegs and then begin to lay eggs .
Part of the original batch of eggs was given to the Insect Department of the Natural History Museum , and amongst the insects raised by them one male appeared .
As the male is much smaller than the female and liable to be confounded with an immature female , this discovery led us to discard the results of our initial experiments , and to take especial precautions against The Inheritance of Colour in Carausius morosus .
Ill the accidental fertilisation of females .
We raised altogether after this several thousand insects , and amongst these six males and one gynandro-morph appeared , which were at once detected and removed .
Our results are , therefore , concerned with parthenogenetic inheritance .
The insects were kept in glass cylinders covered at the top with muslin , and were fed on branches of privet , the ends of which were immersed in small tubes of water .
In this way the food plant was kept fresh until all the leaves had been devoured .
The eggs , which resemble small round seeds , drop to the bottom of the jar ; they can be preserved dry in pill boxes for months without injury : in fact , they normally pass through a resting period of four or five months .
Later , however , we found that it was advisable to spray them once a week\#151 ; for in this way a larger proportion of larvae hatched .
* During the time of hatching the atmosphere in which the insects live must be kept thoroughly moist .
There is considerable mortality during the hatching\#151 ; many insects die with the hinder end still caught in the egg shell .
By keeping the atmosphere moist this mortality is very much reduced .
Females were isolated from the fourth or fifth moult and reared to maturity .
Their eggs were then collected and raised to maturity , and the proportion of colour varieties ascertained .
Although the certainty of non-fertilisation only extends back one generation , the accordance of the results obtained with those obtained before the presence of males was suspected not only confirms our belief in the reliability of the results which we have obtained but tends to prove the extreme improbability that the accidental fertilisation of a female vitiated our earlier results . .
Colour Varieties of the Adult Female .
No less than 10 grades of colour can be distinguished in the adult female , viz. ( 1 ) green , ( 2 ) olive-green , ( 3 ) green suffused with brown , ( 4 ) green dappled with brown , ( 5 ) yellow , ( 6 ) yellowish brown , ( 7 ) red brown , ( 8 ) hazel brown , ( 9 ) dark brown , ( 10 ) brownish black .
Of these Nos. 1-4 are to be reckoned as green .
We have already seen that all varieties of green evidently represent the modification of this tint by increasing amounts of brown pigment .
Nos. 5 , 6 , and 7 are characterised by the prominence of the yellowish-red pigment , whilst Nos. 8 , 9 , and 10 belong evidently to the brown type and differ only in the intensity of their pigmentation .
Six of the varieties are shown in fig. 1 .
In this figure also the scarlet coloration denoting sexual maturity is seen on the inner surfaces of the forelegs .
112 Prof. E. W. MacBride and Miss A. Jackson .
The Adult Male .
Amongst 3000 insects bred seven males were found .
The male insect is about the size which the female attained at the fifth moult .
Its sexual ripeness is indicated by a blush of scarlet on the under surface of the meso- and meta-thorax ; there are also two narrow lines of scarlet on the dorsal surface of the metathorax .
The ground colour of the specimen shown in fig. 2 is greyish olive .
Another male had a ground colour of greenish yellow and the abdomen was suffused with pure yellow .
In such a small collection it is naturally impossible to say how many colour varieties of male exist , but obviously there must be at least two .
The abdomen has the characteristic shape found in the males of Orthoptera .
The Just-hatched Insect .
So far as our observations go , all insects when they emerge from the egg are alike , whatever colour they may afterwards assume ; Meissner , it will be remembered , described them as green , and de Sinety as being " d'une couleur fuligineuse .
" Neither description is correct .
The insect on hatching has a definite colour pattern .
The mid-dorsal line is occupied by a fine green band , very narrow on the head , but widening as it proceeds backwards until it is fairly wide in the region of the abdominal segments and a constriction between two adjacent segments is observable , so that the patches of greenish-yellow copy in shape the underlying chambers of the heart .
At the sides of this median band are two bands of brown , very wide in the region of the head but narrowing as they proceed backwards until they become linear in the abdomen .
These bands are bounded laterally by pale green streaks .
Then on the lateral edges of the segments there is another brown band , broad on the head region where it crosses the eye and becoming narrower as it proceeds backwards ( see fig. 4 ) .
The ventral surface is yellowish-green , becoming more and more mottled with brown as one proceeds backwards till in the last three segments of the abdomen the green has disappeared .
Changes of Colour as Development Proceeds .
If the insect be one of the pure green variety the brown bands become more and more broken up into mottling , and often when the first moult has taken place the insect is nearly pure green , although the brown band on each side of the head could still be made out .
No abrupt change of colour takes place at the moult itself , because , as we have already seen , the pigment granules are situated in the ectodermal cells : the cuticle is practically colourless .
In one special instance noted , an insect hatched on May 7 as the The Inheritance of Colour in Carausius morosus .
113 first instar .
The first moult leading to the second instar occurred on May 19 .
The only traces of brown left were the brown band on the side of the head and very faint traces ( discernible only under close examination ) of the other bands .
The second moult leading to the third instar occurred on June 12 .
After it the same traces of brown were discernible as in the second instar , but after the third moult on July 1 all traces of brown except a few tiny dots on the dorsal surface of the thorax and of the abdominal segments had disappeared .
After the fourth moult on July 24 nothing but green was discernible .
This continued after the fifth moult on August 22 except for the appearance of a slight tinge of red on the anterior edge of the femora of each of the first pair of legs .
After the sixth moult on September 14 the red tinge had developed into a band of pale pink .
After the seventh and last moult on October 18 the band of pink had become bright vermilion , and the eighth or adult instar had been reached .
A month later egg laying began , and on an average one egg was laid per day during the hours of darkness .
Table of length of the Various Instars .
( Compiled from 12 insects .
) 1st instar 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th \#171 ; 8th " ( adult ) mm. 11-14 14-19 20-25 27-31 33-40 45-52 59-67 70-81 Duration of Instars .
( Compiled from 8 insects kept at a temperature of 40'-60 ' F. ) 1st instar 2nd days .
14-22 3rd 20-25 4th 19 34 5tli 24-31 6th * 25 32 7th As we have stated below all insects are hatched alike in colour pattern , and the change to pure green takes place after the first moult and is complete after the third .
After the first moult also a change to brown may occur as shown in fig. 5 .
Prof. E. W. MacBride and Miss A. Jackson .
An apparently pure green may become olive-green in the fourth instar , and may remain so , or it may become light brown and , finally , dark brown , or from olive-green it may become reddish-brown .
Yellowish-browns appear in the fourth instar , and the colour may deepen into hazel .
A very curious and exceptional change is that a red-brown appearing in the second instar may develop into green suffused with brown .
Proportions of Colours\#151 ; Varieties in the Offspring .
* In October , 1912 , 30 adult females were isolated in glass jars , and allowed to lay eggs .
The eggs hatched in April , 1913 , and the emerging insects were reared to maturity , and the proportion of colour varieties produced was ascertained .
The mortality amongst these insects was very high .
Out of a total of 174 insects reared 147 were green and 27 brown , giving a ratio of between 5 and 6 green to 1 brown .
The most interesting result was that the colour of the parent made no difference in the proportions of colour variations found in the offspring .
To give instances : Out of 10 insects , the offspring of a brown female whose mother was also brown , 8 were green and 2 brown .
Again , out of 14 insects , the offspring of a green female whose mother was green , 11 were green and 3 brown .
From a green parent whose mother was brown , 13 insects were reared , and of these 11 were green and 2 brown .
This result was sufficiently unexpected to whet the desire for more detailed knowledge .
It is open to two objections .
First , the proportion of larvae which survived is small , and , secondly , from some of the original batch of eggs from which the material was derived one male was reared .
It was , therefore , determined to repeat the experiments , taking precautions to-keep the atmosphere warm and moist during hatching .
In August , 1913 , 40 females in the fourth and fifth instar were isolated , and placed each one in a separate jar on a food plant .
These females became adult in September , and laid eggs in October and November , and throughout the winter .
One insect continued to lay till September , 1914 , and laid in all 500 eggs .
The eggs produced by each specimen were counted and placed in a pill box .
They were sprayed once or twice a week in order to prevent them becoming too dry .
The eggs began to hatch in April 1914 .
As hatching was spread over a considerable time , maturity was reached at very different times by the different families , and so from time to time counts were made and the adults removed .
The first of these counts was in September , 1914 , the The Inheritance of Colour in Carausius morosus .
115 last in April , 1915 .
In all , over 3000 insects were reared .
About half the families were reserved for experiments on the effect of reduced light and darkness ( v. infra ) ; the remaining 1676 insects were reared under normal conditions , and of these 1612 were green and 62 brown , whilst 2 were classified as yellow .
Leaving these two out of account , the proportion of brown to green is not quite 4 per cent , or 1 in 25 .
If we examine the case of individual insects this conclusion is amply borne out .
Of 91 young of a green insect whose mother was brown 89 were green and 2 brown .
Of 105 offspring of a brown insect whose mother was green 103 were green and 2 brown .
It must be remarked that the mortality in these later experiments was very much reduced .
Whereas in the 1913 experiments from 2\#163 ; )56 eggs 174 insects were reared , in 1914 and 1915 from 4746 eggs 1676 insects were raised .
The proportion of browns amongst adults was in the first case .15*5 per cent. , in the second case 3 6 per cent. As the mortality is reduced therefore the proportion of browns diminishes .
It is obvious that we have to do with a type of segregation of varieties , but a type which has not hitherto been described .
In the first place the insects are almost certainly the offspring of three or four generations of parthenogenetic development .
If the process of segregation were the result of an originally hybrid constitution of the females which laid the eggs which we received from India , then , even if an initial segregation had taken place , since the only reproduction is parthenogenetic this segregation ought to cease , after the first generation , since no crossing amongst the Fi generation takes place .
Then the proportions of brown to green do not bear any relation to any Mendelian ratio , and a brown parent produces just the same proportion of browns to greens as a green parent .
At the same time , whilst the factor for brown is present in all insects , the factor for green is definitely eliminated in a certain proportion as growth proceeds .
It is an obvious reflection that possibly the production of a brown rather than a green adult may be due to a colour reaction\#151 ; those larvae , it might be supposed , which pass a critical period of their growth in a shaded environment turn brown , whilst the rest exposed to full illumination turn green .
In order to test this hypothesis the experiment was made of taking the eggs laid by a certain number of insects and dividing the progeny of each into two equal lots , one lot being reared as in other experiments in glass jars closed at the top by muslin , the other in glass jars of equal size closed at the top by two layers of muslin and pasted round the sides by white paper so that only light of reduced intensity could reach them .
The two lots were compared in order to see if a greater proportion of browns were produced by the insect which were exposed to diffused light .
116 Prof. E. W. MacBride and Miss A. Jackson .
The result of this experiment was to show that on the whole fewer browns were produced by insects subjected to diminished light than by those exposed to intense light .
To give examples : Of 384 eggs , the progeny of one female , 192 were subjected to bright light and 192 to diffuse light .
Of the first lot 55 were reared , including 52 greens and 3 browns : of the second lot 64 were reared , viz. , 63 greens and 1 brown .
In another case 222 eggs , the progeny of one female , were taken , of these 111 were exposed to bright light and 111 to diffused light .
Of the first lot 75 were reared , 72 green and 3 brown\#151 ; of the second lot 87 were raised , all green .
An attempt was then made to rear a certain number of insects in complete darkness , making use of an extremely ingenious piece of apparatus devised for us by Prof. Lefroy .
This consisted of a light-tight box of stout deal divided into an inner and an outer compartment , the whole being painted black .
The two compartments communicated with one another by means of a zinc shutter over which was a weighted black curtain .
The outer compartment was closed by a wooden frame over which a black curtain was stretched .
The frame worked on a hinge and could be raised .
In the curtain there were a pair of holes to which black sleeves were attached .
These sleeves admitted the arms of an operator , round whose wrists they were tightly secured by elastic .
The just-hatched insects were placed on a privet plant in the inner compartment which was watered through an external funnel communicating with the interior by a rubber tube controlled by a tap placed internally .
When it was necessary to change the plant the outer compartment was opened and the new plant was placed therein .
Then , the outer curtain being down , the arms of the operator were introduced through the sleeves and the wooden frame raised .
Then the zinc shutter of the inner compartment was raised and the insects were shaken off the old plant , which was then brought into the outer compartment and replaced by the new one and the zinc shutter closed .
When by feeling it was determined that the insects had become adult the case was opened .
Three such cases were made .
In the first 50 insects were placed immediately after hatching , of which only four survived , and of these one was green and three brown .
In the second 50 insects were also placed , but this case was opened from time to time for a minute or two to inspect the insects .
Eight insects became adult , and all were green .
In the third case an equal number of insects were placed , these were fed on germinating beans , which , growing in the dark , produced only yellowish leaves devoid of chlorophyll .
Only one insect survived , and it was vividly green , as if it had been produced under normal conditions .
From these experiments it is to be The Inheritance of Colour in Carausius morosus .
117 concluded that green insects can be produced in perfect darkness and in the entire absence of chlorophyll .
The experiment was also tried of keeping the insects in continuous light day and night .
The light was supplied by a 16-candle-power electric bulb .
Twelve just-hatched insects were selected for this experiment .
Instead of resting by day and feeding by night they fed by night as well as by day , and when resting did not assume the protective position .
The insects were kept under perpetual light conditions from May 20 till February , with the exception of a fortnight in August .
They became adult in September , and were fully six weeks in advance in development of other insects brought up under normal conditions .
All were green .
General Conclusions .
The series of unexpected facts brought to light by this investigation do not fit in easily with any current theories .
They lead to the following .conclusions:\#151 ; ( 1 ) All stick-insects of the species Carausius morosus are born alike .
All have a definite colour pattern of green and brown pigments .
( 2 ) As growth proceeds ; in the vast majority of the cases the green pigment overpowers the brown so that the pattern disappears , and the insect appears to the unaided eye a pure green .
According to Schleip some traces of brown pigment can always be detected in the cells of the ectoderm of the greenest insects .
( 3 ) In about 3 per cent , of the cases the brown pigment increases during growth and prevents any trace of green being seen , and in these cases , according to Schleip , no green pigment is visible in the ectodermal cells even on microscopic examination .
( 4 ) In a f$w cases where the green pigment becomes predominant the brown pigment remains in sufficient quantity so as to affect the colour and to give rise to the varieties known as green suffused with brown , green with brown spots , etc. ( 5 ) In a still smaller number of cases the yellowish red pigment , which appears always to be present to some extent , increases so as to give the adult insect a yellowish or reddish brown colour .
( 6 ) The proportion of insects which acquire a predominantly green or a predominantly brown colour amongst the offspring is not influenced by the colour of the mother .
( 7 ) Pure green insects can be raised from larvae exposed to complete .darkness from hatching .
( 8 ) Fearing insects in .
reduced light does not increase the proportion of The Inheritance of Colour in Carausius morosus .
browns : there is no evidence in favour of the view that an insect becomes-brown if reared in the shade .
( 9 ) In a general way the production of a small proportion of browns is a help to the concealment of the animal under normal conditions , since such , specimens resemble dried twigs .
( 10 ) Males are produced from the eggs of unfertilised females , but are extremely rare .
In conclusion we should like to express our deep obligation to Prof. Lefroy for his invaluable help , both in giving advice as to methods of rearing and int devising apparatus .
LIST OF WORKS REFERRED TO IN THIS PAPER .
Meissner , O. , " Biologische Beobachtungen an der indischen Stabbeuschrecke ( JDixippus morosus ) " 'Zeit .
fur wissensch .
Insektenbiologie/ vol. 5 , 1909 .
Schleip , W. , " Die Farbenwechsel von Dixippus morosus ( Phasmidse ) , " c Zool. Jahrbiicher ( Abt .
fiir Syst.)/ vol. 30 , 1911 .
de Sinety , M. R. , " Recherches sir la biologie et l'anatomie des Phasmes , " 4 La Cellule/ 1901 .
Yon Wattenwyl , K. B. , and Redtenjbacher , J. , 4 Die Insektenfamilie der Phasmiden/ Leipzig , 1908 .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES .
Fig. 1.-\#151 ; Six specimens of adult female seen from the side , to illustrate some of the variations in colour .
Reduced to two-thirds of the actual length .
A. Light brown or hazel variety .
B. Dark brown variety .
C. Yellow variety .
D. Red brown variety .
E. Pure green variety .
F. Olive green variety .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; The adult male .
A. From the side .
B. From beneath , showing the rosy flush which indicates sexual maturity. .
Reduced to two-thirds of the actual length .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; The just-hatched insect emerging from the egg .
Slightly enlarged .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; The just-hatched insect .
Enlarged five diameters .
A. Seen from above .
B. Seen from the side .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Two insects in the second instar .
Magnified two and a half diameters .
A. An insect which has turned brown , seen from beneath .
B. The same insect seen from above .
C. An insect which has turned green , seen from beneath .
D. The same insect seen from above .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , 89 , Plate 4 .
Fra .
1 .
Fig. 2 .
B. Roy .
Soa Proa , B , 89 , Plate 5 .

