314 Mr. E. Schunck and Dr. L. Marchlewski .
[ pejjt || II .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. Vi .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. , and Leon Marchlewski , Ph. D. Received January 25 , 1895 .
The preceding memoir on the chemistry of chlorophyll contained the results arrived at in the analysis of phyllotaonin and its derivatives .
In the present communication it is proposed to giVe further details regarding the properties and composition of alka-chlorophyll , the mother substance of phyllotaonin , on which will follow an account of some products of decomposition of the latter .
Some experiments will then be described showing the connection between phylloxanthin and phyllocyanin , and proving that the former may by a simple process be converted into the latter .
In order to determine the composition of alkachlorophyll , it was necessary to prepare specimens of the substance purer than those previously obtained , which were only just sufficiently pure for a determination of its chief properties .
For this purpose we employed , as in previous experiments , an extract of grass with boiling alcohol .
We also made use of a commercial product furnished by Merck of Darmstadt , under the name of " Chlorophyllum purissimum , " which , on examination , turned out to be not exactly what its name would betoken , but a very impure alkachlorophyll .
In the case of grass , the first part of the process was the same as that described in the fourth memoir of this series , and the details may therefore be omitted here .
The sodium salt of alkachlorophyll of this process was treated for some time with a mixture of equal parts of absolute alcohol and ether , in order to remove the fatty acid soaps present .
The sodium salt was then decomposed in the manner previously described , and the free alkachlorophyll obtained having been dissolved in ether , the solution was mixed with ligroin .
The latter precipitated the alkachlorophyll , the fatty acids still present remaining dissolved .
The solution in ether and precipitation with ligroin was twice repeated , and the resulting product was treated several times with small quantities of boiling ligroin .
The product supplied by Merck , after being treated for some time with alcoholic soda , was submitted to the same process as that just described .
The substance dried at 125 ' yielded on analysis the following results , the first two determinations being made with the product from grass , the third with that from Merck 's " Chlorophyll .
" I. OT875 gram substance gave 0'4813 gram C02 and 01101 gra\#174 ; HaO .
1 1895 , ] Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
315 0-1968 gram substance gave 19*7 c.c. of nitrogen at 23 ' and 745 mm. I pressure .
I II .
01744 gram substance gave 04478 gram C02 and 0 0974 gram I H,0 .
0 2293 gram substance gave 23*3 c.c. of nitrogen at 24 ' and 764 mm. I pressure .
I III .
0'2145 gram substance gave 0*5500 gram C02 and 0*1242 gram H20 .
0*1072 gram substance gave 10*70 c.c. of nitrogen at 21 ' and 757 mm. pressure .
These numbers correspond in 100 parts to\#151 ; I. II .
III .
Mean .
C ... ... ... 7000 70*00 69 93 69*97 H ... ... ... 6*52 6*20 6*43 6*37 N ... ... ... .
11*03 11*43 11*31 11*27 There are two formulae with which these numbers agree equally well , viz. , CwH^NiCh and C52H57hl707 , requiring respectively CajHsXO* C52H5rN-07 .
G ... ... ... ... .
70*04 70*12 H ... ... ... ... ... 6*61 6*39 N ... ... ... ... . .
10*89 10*99 0 ... ... ... ... . .
12*46 12*50 Since phyllotaonin , with the formula C4oH40N606 , is formed by the action of acids on alkachlorophyll , it was necessary to adopt for the latter a formula with no less than 6 atoms of nitrogen .
The second of the above formulae meets this requirement .
The formation of phyllotaonin from alkachlorophyll by the action of acids , supposing the process to be one of simple hydrolysis , might be represented by the following equation :\#151 ; C52H67N707 + H20 = C4oH4otf606+C12H19N02 .
That a small quantity of a product of a basic nature probably containing nitrogen is formed along with phyllotaonin , by the action of j acbls on alkachlorophyll , has already been mentioned in the fourth memoir of this series , but we have not been able to throw any more bght on the nature of this product .
That some substance containing l nitrogen must be formed together with phyllotaonin in the decomposition , is also indicated by the equation just given , but whether the formula Ci2Hi9N02 represents one substance only , or a mixture of several , is doubtful .
The properties of alkachlorophyll have been already described , and I n't therefore be referred to here .
The action of alkalis on it at a temperature may however be briefly described .
*OL .
LVII .
2 a 316 Mr. E. Schuuck and Dr. L. Marchlewski .
[ Fej}\gt ; || When a solution of alkachlorophyll in alcoholic potash is heated in a sealed tube for several hours at 190\#151 ; 200 ' it is decomposed .
on opening the tube no pressure is perceived .
The contents , consisting partly of small brownish-red crystals having been poured out , an excess of hydrochloric acid is added ; this dissolves a part , yielding a purple solution .
The latter is filtered off from the undissolved brown mass , and after being nearly neutralised with soda , yields on agitation with ether a solution of a fine crimson colour .
The ethereal solution after washing with water leaves on evaporation a quantity of small crystals .
The substance so obtained is identical with the one formed by the same process from phyllotaonin and which will be described presently , It seems also to be essentially the same as that obtained by Tschirch in acting on'alkachlorophyll with alkali , and called by him " phyllo-porphyric acid , " but a comparison of the absorption spectrum of the latter as described by him with that of our substance shows that his product must have been impure .
This is evident from the fact that the absorption spectrum of Tschirch 's product shows , according to him , a band in the red about in the same position as band I of the chlorophyll spectrum , whereas this band though visible in solutions of our substance when the latter is not quite pure , disappears entirely in solutions of the pure substance .
The liquid filtered off from the products insoluble in hydrochloric acid of the process just described , contains in combination with the acid various volatile bases , chiefly ammonia .
In one experiment the liquid , after being made alkaline with soda , was submitted to distillation , the vapour evolved being passed into dilute hydrochloric acid .
The acid liquid after concentration yielded with pJatinic chloride a yellow precipitate , which was collected , treated with boiling alcohol , and dried .
0*1031 gram of the substance gave 0*0451 gram platinum = 43*74 per cent. ; calculation for ( NH4)2PtCl\#171 ; requires 43*90 per cent. The filtrate from the platinum ammonium chloride yielded , on evaporation , orange coloured octabedra , containing 38*7 per cent , of platinum .
It may hence be inferred that along with ammonia some base of higher molecular weight is formed ; the quantity is , however , very small .
P hylloporp hyrin .
The action of caustic alkalis on chlorophyll and its derivatives h*8 been previously investigated .
Hoppe-Seyler obtained by acting on his chlorophyllan with alkali at 260\#151 ; 290 ' a substance giving pnrp , e solutions .
On account of the double fluorescence of its solutions observed by him he gave it the name of " dichromatic acid .
" The discoverer states that it contains no nitrogen , the analysis of th\#174 ; 1895.1 Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
317 barium salt leading for the acid to the formula C20H34O3 , and it is , he states , a very unstable body .
The absorption spectrum of its solutions shows six bands in the relative positions indicated by him , Among the products of decomposition of dichromatic acid mention is made of a substance which in acid solutions shows only two bands ; this substance Hoppe-Seyler calls phylloporphyrin .
Another product of decomposition is obtained , according to him , on evaporating the ethereal solution .
Sachsse obtained by fusion of his / 8-pheeochloro-phyll with soda a reddish-brown product dissolving in acids with a violet colour , and having the formula CaeH\amp ; hTsQa .
Similar experiments made with phyllocyanin , which led to the formation of a purple crystallised substance , have already been described in the fourth memoir of this series .
The product formed in all these cases being doubtless the same , we shall adopt for it the name phyllopor-phyrin , Hoppe-Seyler 's body of the same name being , in our opinion , simply a compound with acid , not a product of decomposition .
The substance has , in fact , a pronounced basic character , and shows in neutral solutions a spectrum differing entirely from that of its ac.d solutions .
Preparation and Properties of Phylloporphyrin .
The method of preparing the substance from phyllocyanin has previously been described .
The method before given is , however , not an advantageous one , the yield being trifling , and the quantity of bye-products formed at the same time relatively large .
We therefore adopted another process , avoiding the use of melted alkali in open vessels and employing alcoholic potash in sealed tubes .
The material employed was phyllotaonin , which , being itself a product of decomposition of phyllocyanin with alkali at lower temperatures , and being more easily prepared in a state of purity than phyllocyanin , seemed better adapted than the latter for the preparation of phylloporphyrin .
The process employed was as follows :\#151 ; Ethyl phyllotaonin in crystals was treated with alcoholic potash in sealed tubes at 190 ' for several hours .
On opening the tubes no pressure was observed .
The brownish-red contents were poured out , mixed with water and an excess of hydrochloric acid , and then shaken up with ether .
The ether acquired a fine purple colour , and left on evaporation a brownish residue in which dark purple crystals were discernible .
The residue was treated with boiling alcohol , which dissolved part , leaving a quantity of brown matter undissolved .
On adding to the filtrate an alcoholic solution of zinc acetate , and allowing it to stand , a red crystalline deposit\#151 ; a zinc compound of phylloporpbyrin Was formed .
This was collected and dissolved in boiling alcohol .
e solution , after addition of a little hydi'ochloric acid , was mixed 318 Mr. E. Schunck and Dr. L. Marchlewski .
[ Feb. u with much water and extracted with ether .
The latter acquired a splendid crimson colour , and , having been washed with water , left on evaporation reddish-violet crystals , which were recrystalliggd from alcohol .
As thus prepared , phylloporphyrin appears in the form of lustrous crystals of a splendid reddish-violet colour , which under the micro-scope are seen to be short regular prisms .
It is tolerably soluble in alcohol and ether , giving red fluorescent solutions , which , on the addition of a little acid , acquire a bluish tint .
It dissolves in mineral acids as well as in glacial acetic acid .
The solutions give up nothing when shaken up with ether , even when previously mixed with much water , showing that they contain compounds of the substance with the respective acids .
When , however , the solutions are made alkaline and then again slightly acid , then ether , on agitation , takes up the substance .
On adding nitric acid to the solution in acetic acid it becomes greenish , and , on heating , the colour disappears entirely .
Phylloporphyrin possesses also acid properties , though these are not very pronounced .
It is , indeed , quite insoluble in aqueous alkalis ; but when caustic soda is added to its alcoholic solution a brown sodium compound separates , which yields up nothing to ether until the alkali has been removed by means of acetic acid .
It yields , moreover , as before mentioned , a crystallised zinc salt , which is formed on adding zinc acetate to its alcoholic solution , when it crystallises out in small red needles ; the compound is decomposed by hydrochloric acid , but it is scarcely changed by acetic acid .
The zinc salt is of some importance in connection with the preparation of the pure substance , since by its means it becomes possible to separate it from other products of debomposition , more especially from the brown amorphous substances accompanying it .
As regards its absorption spectrum , phylloporphyrin is a very interesting substance .
The ethereal solution shows seven bands , which are , for the most part , very sharply defined ( see fig. ) ; it is the first of the derivatives of chlorophyll , so far discovered , which shows in solution no band within the red , the firsthand being at the margin of and almost outside that part of the spectrum .
The spectrum of the alcoholic solution is similar , but the second and third bands are not seen , and the fourth and fifth bands appear as one .
The alcoholic solution to which hydrochloric acid has been added shows an absorption spectrum of three bands only , one close to line B , another near E , and a third , which is very faint , between the two .
This spectrum should , we thought , have been the same as that of Hoppe-Seyler 's phylloporphyrin , which we consider to be a compound of our phylloporphyrin with acid ; that they are not quite identical is probably due to Hoppe-Seyler 's product having been impure .
a solution of phylloporphyrin to which hydrochloric acid has been j 1895 , ] Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
319 I a(pje(j really contains a compound with acid and not a product I Qf decomposition , is evident from the fact that if the acid be neutralised with soda the solution loses its bluish tinge , and now shows the absorption spectrum of an alcoholic solution of the free substance .
A solution of phylloporphyrin in concentrated sulphuric acid shows a spectrum with four bands .
The spectrum of solutions of the zinc salt is peculiar .
While the solutions of the alkaline salts show a spectrum differing very little from that of the substance itself , the zinc salt in solution shows only two bands ( see fig. ) .
On adding a little hydrochloric acid to the zinc salt solution and boiling , the spectrum of the hydrochloride makes its appearance , followed , after considerable dilution , by that of the substance itself .
7 D E F G Explanation of FiOube .
Absorption Spectra of Phylloporphyrin and its Compounds .
1 .
Phylloporphyrin in ether .
2 .
The same in concentrated sulphuric acid .
3 .
The same in hyarocnlonc acid .
4 .
Zinc salt .
Phylloporphyrin , like most of the derivatives of chlorophyll hitherto examined , contains nitrogen , differing in this respect from the dichromatic acid of Hoppe-Seyler , which , according to him , is devoid of nitrogen .
The analysis of phylloporphyrin and of its zinc salt yielded the following results :\#151 ; 0'1023 gram phylloporphyrin gave 0*2850 gram COa and 0*0654 gram H\#187 ; 0 .
0 0920 gram gave 9*00 c.c. of nitrogen at 21 ' and 753 mm. pressure .
0 0848 gram of the zinc salt gave 0*2093 gram CO2 and 0*0466 !
i gram H20 .
320 Mr. E. Schunck and Dr. L. Marchlewski .
These numbers correspond in 100 parts to\#151 ; Phylloporphyrin .
Zinc salt .
C ... ... . .
75*98 67-31 H ... ... ... 7-10 610 .
N ... ... . .
11*02 \#151 ; Tie formulas and CasH"N , OiZn require respectively\#151 ; Pliylloporphyrin .
Zinc salt .
c ... ... ... 75*89 67*46 H ... ... ... ... .
6-73 5-63 N ... ... ... ... 11-06 O ... ... ... ... 6-32 \#151 ; Want of substance prevented our making further determinations in confirmation of those above given .
It is difficult at present to explain in a simple manner the formation of phylloporphyrin from phyllotaonin , the more so since phylloporphyrin is not the only product of decomposition due to the action of alkali , it being always accompanied by a relatively large quantity of brown amorphous substances as before mentioned .
Ammonia , together with a small quantity of another base having a higher molecular weight , could also be detected in the acid liquid.filtered off from the phylloporphyrin and the brown substances , just as in the case of alkachlorophyll ; the presence of these bodies was discovered in the manner previously described .
Conversion of Fhylloxanthin into Phylloxanthin and phyllocyanin being both products of decomposition of chlorophyll with acids , and having many properties in common , it seemed probable that a connection of an intimate character might be found to subsist between the two substances .
Our experiments lead to the conclusion that this is , in fact , the case , and that phylloxanthin may by the prolonged action of acids be converted into phyllocyanin .
This convertibility has frequently been suspected , but has never yet been satisfactorily proved .
The changes which take place in the spectrum of chlorophyll on the addition of acids to its solutions have long been known , they have been accurately described by Russell and Lapraik in their memoir entitled " A Spectroscopic Study of Chlorophyll .
" * According to these observers , when a few drops of hydrochloric acid are added to an ethereal solution of chlorophyll , the colour of the latter changes from bright green to yellowish-green .
At the same time the spectrum of the solution undergoes a marked change : bands * ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 41 , p. 334 , 1882 .
\lt ; f 1395 , ] Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
321 I and II appear more clearly defined in consequence of the clearing up of the space between them , while band III is shifted nearer the 1 j)]ue end and becomes paler , band IV , on the other hand , becoming much darker .
After the solution has stood for a few days a fifth f band nearer the blue end , and equal in intensity to the fourth , appears .
| The same changes take place , but more slowly , when tartaric acid is || employed in place of hydrochloric acid .
When acetic acid , however , I is taken , the solution remains unchanged for some time ; it then I becomes yellowish-green and shows four bands as before , but the fifth l band never makes its appearance however much the action may be I prolonged .
These changes in the spectrum of chlorophyll solutions I on the addition of various acids may be explained by supposing that phylloxanthin is formed in the first instance , and is then , by the j. ; continued action of the acid , converted into phyllocyanin .
The conversion though slow , on the whole proceeds more rapidly at the commencement than towards the end of the process , and is evidently , due to hydrolysis .
Similar phenomena are observed in the case of \ melitose , the metamorphosis of which also passes through two stages , being first converted by the action of emulsin into melibiose , which then by hydrolysis with acid yields galactose and fructose .
, The phylloxanthin employed in the experiments about to be described was obtained in accordance with the directions given in the fourth memoir of this series .
We have nothing to add to the account there given of the properties of phylloxanthin , except that f when quite pure its solutions show only four absorption bands , not five as there stated , a fifth band , when it appears , indicating the presence of phyllocyanin .
Into an ethereal solution of phylloxanthin free from phyllocyanin , l a current of dry hydrochloric acid gas was passed , the solution being l kept cool , until quite saturated , and it was then shaken up with f ] concentrated hydrochloric acid .
The latter gradually acquired a | bluish-green colour , which became darker on standing .
The two ja liquids having remained in contact for some time were separated , and jji the lower acid one was mixed with several times its volume of water , | which gave an almost black flocculent precipitate .
The whole was then shaken up with ether , in which the precipitate dissolved , yielding I a solution which , after washing with water , showed the olive-green [ { j c'lour peculiar to solutions of phyllocyanin as well as the five jj absorption bands belonging to the latter in their usual position and with their usual relative intensities .
That a formation of phyllocyanin had actually taken place was proved by the following experiments .
The ethereal solution of the product obtained was evaporated .
1 art of the residue left was dissolved in caustic soda ; the solution , 1 after standing for some time , was supersaturated with acetic acid , and then shaken up with ether ; the ethereal solution was evaporated , 322 Dr. J. W. Capstiek .
On Ratio of the fFeb H and the residue was dissolved in boiling glacial acetic acid ; the solution on standing deposited small crystalline grains , the ethereal solution of which showed the absorption spectrum of acetylphy } .
lotaonin .
Another portion of the residue left on evaporation of the ethereal solution was dissolved in boiling alcoholic potash ; the solution s after filtration and addition of water , was acidified with acetic acid i and then shaken up with ether ; an ethereal solution was obtained showing the characteristic absorption spectrum of phyllotaonin .
The experiments just described proving the convertibility of phylloxanthin into phyllocyanin , tend to support the view held by some observers that only one chlorophyll really exists , and that there are not two or more chlorophylls as has sometimes been maintained .
Under the action of acids , chlorophyll yields phylloxanthin , which is then converted into phyllocyanin .
The latter when treated with alkalis gives phyllotaonin , and this , by the more energetic action of alkalis at a higher temperature , yields phylloporphyrin .
The progressive increase in the number of absorption bands in passing through this series , and the gradual shifting of the bands from the red to the blue end of the spectrum , are points worthy of notice .
III .
" On the Ratio of the Specific Heats of some Compound Gases .
" By J. W. CAPSTICK , D.Sc .
, M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 25 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described are a continuation of those of which an account was given in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' vol. 185 , p. 1 .
The apparatus and method of procedure were the same as were described in the former paper .
Kundt 's dust-figure method was used for finding the velocity of sound in the gas , and the ratio of the specific heats was calculated by means of the formula 1*408 , 1 d 1-J\#151 ; \#151 ; p dv the last factor being added to the ordinary formula in order w correct for the deviation of the gas from Boyle 's law .
The densities and isothermal curves were determined expert mentally .
The results are as follows:\#151 ;

