259 1876 .
] On the Mycelium of Smallpox of Sheep .
so that the tension of the electricity as compared with a chloride-of-silver cell is as 146-7 x 20 30-88 to 1 .
The copper disk , after its separation from the zinc , acts as a condenser to the latter ; and as soon as the copper disk is connected automatically with earth the bound electricity of the zinc is set free , and the needle of the electrometer makes a sudden jump .
To observe this effect it is necessary to woi*k the apparatus slowly .
When earth-connexion was made with the copper disk , and also subsequently with the zinc disk after the charge had been given off from it , and before a new contact , no sensible difference was observed in the deflection of the electrometer .
With an ordinary Elliott tangent-galvanometer , and indeed with one twice as sensitive as those generally made , not the slightest deflection of the needle was manifested ; with , however , a Thomson galvanometer a deviation of the needle was obtained of 35 divisions in one direction and 35 divisions in the other , according as the zinc conductor was connected with one or other end of the galvanometer and the other end with earth .
The current , though feeble , is quite manifest nevertheless .
To form a rough notion of the electromotive force , a piece of copper wire 0-5 inch long and 0*03 inch diameter was connected with one end of the galvanometer , and a piece of zinc 0-25 inch diameter and 0-5 inch long with the other , and the one held between the right-hand finger and thumb , and the other between the left-hand finger and thumb , using shunt in the galvanometer or only y^-y part of the current ; this produced a deviation in the scale of 50 divisions with dry fingers , and 150 divisions when the fingers and thumbs were moistened ; so that the quantity of electricity developed by the contact of dissimilar metals is consequently extremely small when the area ( 28-27 inches ) of each disk is taken into account .
XXVII .
" Note on the Mycelium described in my Paper on Smallpox of Sheep .
" By Dr. E. Klein , E.R.S. Received June 7 , 1876 .
In the above paper , which was printed in the Philosophical Transactions ( vol. 165 .
pt .
1 ) , I described and figured , in Section iv .
part c , the presence , in the lymphatics of the skin of the pock , of what I regarded to be the mycelium of a fungus which I termed Oidium variolce ( see figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 of that paper ) .
Similar features were described and figured in the cavities of the primary and secondary pustules .
My attention has been drawn by Dr. Charles Creighton to appearances , in many respects similar to those described by myself , which he found in 260 On the Mycelium of Smallpox of Sheep .
[ June 15^ preparations of tissues* altogether removed from the suspicion of containing fungoid growths of that or any other character .
A comparison of the two kinds of specimens convinced me that the appearances represented in my figures 18 and 19 are not due , as I supposed , to a mycelium in the cavities of the primary pustules , but are products of coagulation of some albuminous or kindred material by the reagent that had been employed for hardening the object in question ( dilute chromic acid and spirit ) .
The vegetable nature of the other structures\#151 ; viz. those represented in figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 ( i. e.the supposed mycelium in the lymphatics of the skin of the pock ) as well as those in figs. 16 and 17 ( .
e. the mycelium in the cavities of the secondary pustules)\#151 ; becomes therefore very doubtful .
My doubt as to these being also produced by coagulation is based partly on the similarity between the last-named features and those undoubtedly non-vegetable objects in Dr. Creighton 's specimens and also in my figures 18 and 19 , and partly on the following circumstances:\#151 ; ( 1 ) I have lately ascertained that blood , especially in febrile conditions , which is contained in blood-vessels of tissues that had been subjected , in a fresh condition , to the hardening fluid ( e. g. chromic acid ) presents appearances very similar to branched mycelium-threads to which are attached numerous conidia ; the presence of more or less unaltered blood-corpuscles proves their true cha-ractert .
( 2 ) I have likewise seen that blood-plasma containing globulin or parts of blood-corpuscles , when in lymphatic vessels or kindred spaces , show sometimes in the course of coagulation similar appearances .
Whether the greater number of the thread-like structures is due to fibrin or to blood-corpuscles I cannot determine as yet ; but it seems to me that both is the case .
In the case of Variola ovina it is therefore probable that the supposed mycelium in the lymphatics is due to coagulation of some substance directly connected with blood .
Whether the appearances in the cavities of the pustules , however , owe their origin to the same or to certain mucous substances , as appears in Dr. Creighton 's specimens , and under what conditions these substances present the fungus-like characters , is a subject which I intend to investigate more fully .
* Sections through hardened mammary glands* t Blood-corpuscles , or only portions of them , become fused so as to form longer or shorter thread-like structures , to which are attached smaller or larger particles of .
blood-corpuscles .

