3 .
" Observations on the Torpedo , with an account of some addi ?
tional experiments on its Electricity .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. , Assistant Inspector of Army Hospitals .
The first part of this paper is occupied by an investigation of the circumstances attending the foetal development of the Torpedo .
In the first stage of embryonic growth which the author had an oppor ?
tunity of observing , when the embryo was about seven tenths of an inch in length , it had neither fins nor electrical organs , nor any appearance of eyes ; it exhibited short external branchial filaments , not yet carrying red blood ; and there was a red spot in the situation of the heart , communicating by red vessels in the umbilical cord with the vascular part of the egg .
There is no membrane investing the foetus , as is the case with some species of Squali ; nor any fluid in the uterine cavity ; neither could the author find any urea or lithic acid in that cavity .
By taking the mean of many observations , it appeared that the weight of the egg , before any appearance of the embryo , is 182 grs. , and after its appearance , including the weight of the latter , 177 grs. ; while the weight of the mature fish is about 479 grs. ; showing an augmentation of more than double .
Thus it differs remarkably , in this respect , from the foetal chick , which at its full time weighs consider ?
ably less than the original yolk and white from which it is formed .
No communication can be traced between the foetus of the Torpedo and the parent , through the medium of any vascular or cellular structure ; and the stomach of the former is always found empty .
Hence the only apparent source of nourishment is absorption from the surface $ and the author states his reasons for believing that the branchial filaments are the principal absorbing organs , the materials they receive being chiefly employed in the construction of the electrical organs , while those which enter into the composition of the body generally are absorbed by the general surface of the foetus .
The author is led , from his researches , to the conclusion that the mode of reproduction in the Torpedo is intermediate between the viviparous and the ovoviviparous .
In the second part of the paper , the author discusses the question as to the number of species of the genus Torpedo existing in the Me ?
diterranean ; and concludes that there are only two , viz. the Ochiatella and the Tremola .

