538 Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 17\gt ; This method worked exceedingly well , giving exactly the same results as before , the only drawback being that the action was very sluggish , the galvanometer taking about two minutes to come to rest after each addition of pressure .
The above results seem to prove that the calculated value of the variation of the freezing-point of water , deduced from the observed difference of volume of ice and water , and the latent heat of fluidity at the melting-point under one atmosphere of pressure , is identical with the mean experimental value obtained from a series of observations extending to 700 atmospheres .
From Clapeyron 's formula we are thus entitled to infer that \#151 ; \#151 ; =constant , where T is absolute temperature , V the difference of volume of the two states , and L the latent heat of fluidity .
If V is assumed to be approximately constant , then T varies as L. Thus the latent heat of ice diminishes as the freezing-point is lowered by pressure .
This is in accordance with the deductions of Clausius* from other considerations .
III .
" On the Critical Point of Mixed Vapours .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor of Natural Experimental Philosophy in the University of Cambridge .
Received June 10 , 1880 .
The following experiments regarding the behaviour of carbonic acid in presence of different vapours above the temperature of the critical point of the pure gas , were undertaken to ascertain if any optical discontinuity could be observed in such mixtures .
As the object was intentionally a qualitative investigation , many of the pressure observations have been taken with the metallic manometer .
The Liquefaction of Carbonic Acid in 'presence of other Bodies .
1 .
Carbonic Acid and Bisulphide of Carbon .
Carbonic acid liquefied in presence of a small quantity of bisulphide of carbon at a pressure of 49 atmospheres and a temperature of 19 ' C. It floated on the convex surface of the bisulphide , the line of separation being sharp and well defined .
At 35 ' C. liquid condensed on the surface of the bisulphide in the same way at a pressure of 78 atmospheres , at 40 ' C. it still appeared at 85 atmospheres , at 55 ' C. there seemed to be a distinct appearance of two liquids , and at 58 ' C. there was still the same apparent separation under a pressure of 110 atmospheres .
Observed at 47 ' C. and a * " Phil. Mag. , " 1851 .
1880 .
] On the Critical Point of Mixed Vapours .
pressure of 80 atmospheres , there was a distinct layer of a separate fluid on the surface of the bisulphide , the bisulphide surface however was not so well defined .
By keeping the temperature at 47 ' C. , on increasing the pressure to 110 atmospheres , the upper surface of the liquid floating on the bisulphide almost entirely disappeared .
By reducing the pressure again to 80 atmospheres , the surface of demarcation did not appear , but on reducing the pressure another 5 atmospheres , the line of demarcation again appeared very sharply and remained .
A quick withdrawal to 58 atmospheres , followed by a gradual increase of the pressure to 85 atmospheres , did not make the liquid remain , but on reducing it again slowly to 80 atmospheres the definition became perfectly sharp .
2 .
Carbonic Acid and Chloroform .
Carbonic acid in presence of chloroform at 18 ' C. liquefied at 25 atmospheres , forming a distinct layer on the surface of the chloroform .
On further compression , the manometer rose rapidly to 50 atmospheres , at which pressure the two liquids mixed completely , after being left for a few minutes .
When the pressure was rapidly withdrawn , distinct layers of what appeared to be carbonic acid were always formed , which however became rapidly dissolved in the chloroform on standing a few seconds .
At 33 ' C. liquid began to appear at a pressure of 35 atmospheres , and on increasing the pressure to 55 atmospheres it behaved in exactly the same way as at the lower temperatures , except that the layer was , if anything , more distinct and mixed more rapidly with the chloroform on standing .
At 55 ' C. a layer of liquid was still formed at a pressure of 50 atmospheres ; at 67 ' C. it behaved in the same way , except that there was a smaller quantity of liquid formed , and the pressure rose to 85 atmospheres .
In every case it rapidly mixed with the chloroform when left for a few seconds .
3 .
Carbonic Acid and Benzol .
At 18 ' C. the carbonic acid commenced to liquefy at a pressure of 25 atmospheres ; and at the moment of liquefaction the surface of the benzol became violently agitated , the carbonic acid falling through the benzol in an oily stream , and becoming completely mixed with it .
When by further condensation'more liquid was formed , the agitation almost entirely ceased , the liquid carbonic acid forming a distinct layer on the saturated benzol .
On leaving this for about five minutes , the line of demarcation disappeared , and the two liquids formed a perfectly homogeneous fluid .
540 Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 17 , On again increasing the pressure so as to get a layer of carbonic acid , and then releasing the pressure gradually , the liquid carbonic acid on the surface first fell in oily streams through the saturated benzol ; but when all this had disappeared , the carbonic acid then commenced to boil from the bottom of the benzol , and continued to do so until it was again entirely vaporised .
At 35 ' C. liquid commenced to appear at 35 atmospheres , forming a distinct layer on the surface of the benzol , which was not in the least agitated .
On further compression the liquid layer increased in volume , but no oily streams were seen to fall through the benzol ; and on leaving it for about ten minutes , the layer of liquid was almost just as distinct , showing that it was not nearly so soluble in the benzol at this temperature .
On the pressure being now reduced , the liquid quietly evaporated away from the surface ; but when all this had disappeared , carbonic acid commenced to boil out of the benzol , showing that it had dissolved a considerable amount .
At 52 ' C. the liquid appeared at 60 atmospheres , forming a layer which mixed with the benzol on standing ; and at 70 ' C. and 85 atmospheres a distinct layer was also formed , which however rapidly mixed with the benzol .
4 .
Carbonic Acid and Ether .
A tube was filled with carbonic acid and a little ether introduced .
At 20 ' C. , and at a pressure of 20 atmospheres , the carbonic acid liquefied and fell through the ether , mixing with it in all proportions .
At 42 ' C. liquid was condensed on the surface of the ether at a pressure of 55 atmospheres , forming a distinct layer ; the upper surface of the ether was , however , kept in continual oscillation from the apparent solution of the carbonic acid in it .
No currents due to the falling of the carbonic acid through the ether were visible .
At 68 ' C. , and a pressure of 110 atmospheres , a perfectly separate layer of fluid was formed on the surface of the ether , and no currents descended through the ether .
5 .
Carbonic Acid and Nitrous Oxide .
When a tube was filled with equal volumes of carbonic acid and nitrous oxide , and the gas liquefied , the fluids mixed together in all proportions , no difference being perceptible ; but when the pressure was suddenly withdrawn , the one gas boiled before the other , and for a few seconds a distinct line of separation was seen .
Liquefaction of Carbonic Acid with Trichloride of Phosp horus .
At 16o,20 C. , and 42'95 atmospheres ' pressure , the carbonic acid 1880 .
] On the Critical Point of Mixed Vapours .
541 commenced to condense on the sides before the trichloride of phosphorus came in sight , and when the latter was visible , a slight indistinct layer of fluid was seen on the surface , distinguishable by the different refractive index of the two liquids , there being no sharp line of demarcation .
On standing a few minutes , the liquids became quite homogeneous .
On increasing the pressure , more carbonic acid was condensed , forming a more or less distinct layer on the surface of the trichloride of phosphorus .
This , however , rapidly disappeared on standing .
On releasing the pressure , the carbonic acid boiled first on the surface , but afterwards through the liquid , the trichloride of phosphorus at the same time falling in heavy strise to the bottom .
At 23 ' C. the carbonic acid appeared to liquefy at 46'91 atmospheres , exactly the same appearances taking place as at 16 C. At 30 ' C. the carbonic acid liquefied at 49'94 atmospheres , forming a rather more distinct layer , and not mixing so readily .
On increasing the pressure to 90 atmospheres , the surface of the carbonic acid disappeared , it being near its critical point , the top part of the tube being filled with a homogeneous mass , / he trichloride of phosphorus-could also not be distinguished on the surface of the mercuiy , its upper surface being entirely mixed up with the carbonic acid , the whole space above the mercury forming one homogeneous mass .
On releasing the pressure , a cloud first appeared , and then the surface of the carbonic acid became visible ; it boiled away first from the surface , and afterwards through the trichloride of phosphorus .
At 33'C .
, liquid carbonic acid appeared at 50'84 atmospheres .
At 40 " " " 56 -88 At 50 " " " 66 -53 " At all the temperatures above 30'O .
, the appearances were the same , except that as the temperature increased , the quantity ot fluid liquefied diminished , and it took a greater pressure to make the surface of the trichloride of phosphorus disappear .
The following are pressures taken with a smaller quantity of carbonic acid and trichloride in the tube , and were read off when the surface of the trichloride was first agitated , thus showing that the carbonic acid had commenced to condense .
At 10 " 5 C ... ... ... ... ... .
22*70 atmospheres .
" 16*5 " ... ... ... ... ... . .
24 70 " 22-8 " ... ... ... . .
: ... . .
32 18 " 30 -0 " ... ... ... ... ... .
33*88 " 40-0 " ... ... ... ... ... . .
36*36 " " 50 -0 " ... ... ... ... ... .
49 -67 " 70 -0 " ... ... ... ... ... .
76-61 Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 17 , Liquefaction of Carbonic Acid with Tetrachloride of Carbon .
The quantity of tetrachloride of carbon was a little less than the volume of the liquid carbonic acid .
At 12'*8 C. the surface of the liquid appeared agitated as soon as it appeared in sight , and on increasing the pressure , a distinct layer of carbonic acid was formed on the surface of the tetrachloride ; on increasing the pressure , a still more distinct layer was formed which , however , on standing , rapidly commenced to dissolve in the tetrachloride , and in about ten minutes it was perfectly homogeneous .
At 21'*4 C. the surface of the tetrachloride appeared agitated when it came in sight , a layer of liquid being formed on increasing the pressure , as at 12 ' C. At 30 ' C. liquid was also formed , which , however , rapidly diffused into the tetrachloride of carbon .
At 40 ' C. the liquid also appeared agitated , and on increasing the pressure rapidly , a small quantity of fluid was condensed , which , however , rapidly disappeared in the tetrachloride . .
At 52 ' C , the liquid again became agitated , and on increasing the pressure , a distinct layer of liquid was formed .
The same took place at 58 ' C. Liquefaction of Carbonic Acid and Chloride of Methyl .
When chloride of methyl was compressed in a tube by itself , it became liquid before the pressure could be registered , and must have been below 10 atmospheres .
When compressed with about twice its volume of carbonic acid at 13'*5 C. , the chloride of methyl , of course , liquefied first , and at about 27*67 atmospheres , its surface became agitated , showing that the carbonic acid had commenced to liquefy , but the exact point was difficult to ascertain , as it dissolved so very rapidly in the chloride of methyl .
At 20''05 C. this point appeared to be at 28*57 atmospheres .
At 30 ' C. some liquid was also condensed , but the pressure at commencement of liquefaction could not be taken , as it mixed so rapidly with the chloride of methyl .
That more liquid was in reality condensed , was seen by the lengthening of the liquid column , and by its boiling out of the chloride of methyl when the pressure was reduced .
At 40 ' C. exactly the same took place .
Carbonic Acid and Acetylene .
About equal volumes of these gases were compressed together ; they liquefied and mixed completely at all the temperatures given below , and no appearance of two different gases being liquefied could be -detected , except that the liquid was strongly agitated during condensaOn the Critical Point of Mixed Vapours .
1880 .
] tion .
The pressure at the point of liquefaction was , as in the former case 's , lower than either of the gases liquefied by themselves .
Thus At 13'-5 C. , the pressure was 25 " 23 atmospheres .
, , 21 " 0 \gt ; ) 5\gt ; , , 26 '8 " " 31 -9 " \#187 ; , , 39 " 5 ?
, , 41 5\gt ; The critical point was , on the other hand , heightened , being 41 ' C. ; that of carbonic acid being 31 ' C. , and of acetylene , 3/ C. Carbonic Acid and Hydrochloric Acid Gases .
A mixture of equal volumes of these gases was filled into a tube , the liquefied gases mixed completely together at all temperatures below the critical point , which was 36 ' C. , forming a perfectly homogeneous fluid ; in fact , it was impossible to tell that two different gases were present , as even at the point of liquefaction no difference was discernible .
The following are the pressures at which the mixture liquefied : At 0''0C 36-0 atmospheres .
5*0 39'0 " 8-0 " 43-8 55 10-1 48-2 " 18-5 " 59-0 53 34*0 83-0 * * " 35*5 " 90-0 35 Carbonic Acid and Bromine .
A tube filled with a mixture of carbonic acid and bromine vapour by passing dry carbonic acid through a tube containing dry bromine before entering the liquefying tube .
A little strong sulphuric acid was also introduced , to protect the mercury .
On compressing this mixture at ll'-5 C. the sulphuric acid appeared in sight with a layer of liquid at 50 atmospheres , the liquid having a decidedly red colour .
On increasing the pressure the liquid became more highly coloured , while a little pure bromine liquid fell through the liquid carbonic acid , remaining a short time on the surface of the sulphuric acid , through which a globule also sank .
As this tube was spoiled through the amount of bromine which fell through the sulphuric acid , another was put up in the same way , and heated at once to about 40 ' C. , before compressing the mixture .
26 *8 34 -1 40 -26 55 -3 75 -32 Prof. J. Dewar .
[ June 17 , On the sulphuric coining in sight a small layer of bromine was seen on the surface , which was surmounted by a layer of darkish red liquid about % inch long .
The pressure was about 60 atmospheres .
On increasing the pressure to 90 atmospheres , the upper liquid increased a good deal in quantity and then disappeared entirely , but immediately reappeared on reducing the pressure a few atmospheres , * and remained permanently .
Carbonic Acid and Some small pieces of camphor were placed in the capillary part of an ordinary Cailletet tube , near the end , and fused so as to adhere to the sides .
The tube was then filled with carbonic acid gas .
On compressing this mixture in the pump at 12 ' C. the camphor was seen to melt and run down the sides of the tube before the mercury appeared in sight ( in this experiment it was not observed whether liquid carbonic acid had commenced to form in the tube and thus dissolve the camphor , or whether the latter was dissolved in the gas ) .
On continuing the pressure so as to almost fill the tube with liquid , two distinct layers of liquid were seen , the lower one being slightly cloudy , containing the dissolved camphor , the upper liquid being perfectly clear .
On compressing at different temperatures up to 55 ' C. , the lower cloudy liquid was always present , the upper layer diminishing gradually in quantity as the temperature rose , but at 40 ' 0 .
there was still a slight layer on increasing the pressure to about 125 atmospheres .
On withdrawing the pressure very suddenly when the tube was full of liquid at 50 ' , the sides of the tube became coated with crystallised camphor , which rapidly dissolved again on increasing the pressure .
After doing this several times , a very small quantity of camphor was seen to crystallise out , and in taking down the tube , the most of it was found to have crystallised out in the top part of the reservoir near the joining with the capillary part , thus allowing the mercury to get past it on again increasing the pressure .
Carbonic Acid and Camphor ( tube ) .
Another tube was filled in the same way as the last ( a rather larger quantity of camphor being placed in the capillary part ) , with this exception , that the carbonic acid , after being dried , was passed through a tube , containing fragments of solid camphor , which were gently heated , so as to fill the tube with carbonic acid gas , saturated with the vapour of camphor .
When this tube was compressed in the pump at a temperature of 15 ' C. , and when the pressure reached 27*7 atmospheres , the camphor was seen to gradually melt and run down the sides of the tubes before the mercury appeared in sight .
1880 .
] On the Critical Point of Mixed Vapours .
545 On increasing the pressure to 37'0 atmospheres , the mercury appeared in sight with about three-quarters of an inch of a turbid liquid on the surface .
On still further increasing the pressure , two distinct layers of fluid were formed , which , however , became quite homogeneous after a short time .
On mixing them up by a rapid decrease and increase of pressure , the two fluids soon mix .
At 28 ' C. , two layers of liquid were distinctly visible at G5 atmospheres , the lower layer being visible as soon as the mercury appeared in sight .
At 85 ' C. fluid was condensed on the surface of the lower liquid at 80 atmospheres , but when the pressure was increased to 100 atmospheres , the surface of the carbonic acid became undefined .
At 45 ' 0 .
fluid is seen to condense on the sides of the tube at a pressure of 100 atmospheres , running down and forming a slight layer on the surface of the camphor liquor , which , however , disappears on still further increasing the pressure .
When the temperature was 42''5 and the pressure was suddenly reduced , the inside of the tube became covered with crystals of camphor .
On now increasing the pressure very carefully , the camphor was seen to melt or liquefy and run down the sides of the tube at a pressure of 37 6 atmospheres , and this pressure scarcely increased at all until all the camphor was thus liquefied .
A diminution of the pressure by two or three atmospheres was sufficient to bring out the crystals of camphor .
At 60 ' C. the lower layer of liquid still remained , and on increasing the pressure to 100 atmospheres there was an appearance of liquefaction of carbonic acid on the surface .
Carbonic Acid , Air , and Camphor ( third tube ) .
A quantity of camphor was placed in the capillary part of a tube as before , which was afterwards filled with a mixture of four volumes of carbonic acid , saturated with camphor vapour , and one volume of air .
The tube was surrounded with water at 25 ' 0 .
, so as to be far above the critical point of the carbonic acid and air mixture , and on now increasing the pressure the camphor liquefied and ran down the sides of the tube as before .
At 50 ' C. a quantity of liquid , about inch long , appeared on the surface of the mercury when it came in sight , the pressure being now 65 atmospheres .
On leaving the pressure the same , the mercury being just in sight , and increasing the temperature gradually to 60 ' C. , the inside of the tube above the liquid became covered with camphor crystals , which on increasing the pressure another , five atmospheres ( viz. , to 70 atmospheres ) again dissolves .
At 65 ' C. , the pressure standing at 70 atmospheres and the mercury and liquid being in sight , on reducing the pressure to 65 atmospheres , the camphor crystals separated out , being again suddenly dissolved on 546 Dr. J. H. Gladstone and A. Tribe .
[ June 17 , again increasing the pressure to 73 atmospheres .
On now rapidly-letting down the temperature to 15 ' C. a white mass of camphor separated out from the liquid , which again dissolved on a slight increase of pressure , although it could not be again separated out by diminishing it .
These actions may be due , in part , to supersaturation and the effect of pressure in aiding solubility when contraction takes place during solution .
These experiments show that carbonic acid at high pressures in presence of various substances acts as if it produced a series of unstable chemical compounds , which are decomposed and recomposed according to the conditions of temperature and pressure in the medium .
Further observations are required to elucidate many obscure actions taking place under such conditions of experimenting as are detailed in the above communication .
IV .
" The Aluminium-Iodine Reaction .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , F.C.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Received June 10 , 1880 .
About four years ago we pointed out a reaction of iodide of aluminium which , as far as we are aware , has no precise analogue in the science of chemistry , and which has led to the discovery of several volatile aluminium alcohols .
It is well known that neither water , alcohol , nor ether is decomposed by metallic aluminium , and that each of these bodies will dissolve iodine without entering further into combination with it ; but we found that by the joint action of these two elements , it was possible to split up the above-mentioned liquids .
Water , though forming a definite hydrate with the iodide of aluminium , is decomposed by it in the presence of an excess of the metal , hydrogen being evolved and aluminic hydrate formed .
This takes place at the ordinary temperature .
Alcohol in a similar manner is decomposed by the joint action of metallic aluminium and its iodide , with the ultimate production of hydrogen gas , aluminic ethylate , and varying amounts of aluminic iodoethylate proportional to the quantity of aluminic iodide employed .
A small quantity of the iodide suffices to bring about the formation of a very large amount of the ethylate ; in fact , the process would be a continuous one , were it not that the solid products gradually put a stop to the reaction .
Ether is not affected by aluminic iodide and aluminium , but when exposed to iodine and aluminium simultaneously it suffers a violent decomposition , iodide of ethyl and the aluminic iodoethylate being the ultimate products .
Amylic ether behaves in a similar manner , and the acetates of ethyl and amyl give analogous results ; but the reaction is not an ordinary

