]\gt ; Gravitational Instability the Figure of the Earth .
By J. H. , F.B.S. ( Received February 26 , 1917 .
) 1 .
In a paper published in 1902 , " " On the Vibrations and Stability of a Gravitating Planet attempted to examine whether , owing to ravitational instability , an arrangement in concentric spherical shells not be unstable for a planet of the size of our earth .
It was not found possible to get exact results ; progress only seemed possible by supposing that the problem would in its essentials be similar to a highly artificial problem in which ravitation was exactly annulled in the symmetrical configuration by the superposition of a countervailing field , so that in this state the matter was of uniform density and unstressed .
The only possible justification for such an assumption was that I found myself unable to make any ress , either physically or mathematically , without it .
Subject to this assumption , I found that , for a mass of the structure of our earth in its present state , the symmetrical configuration would undoubtedly be stable .
It seemed likely , howeyer , that in a past age in which the rigidity of the earth was considerably , although not enormously , less than it now is , the symmetrical configuration might have been unstable ; the stable configuration would have been an unsymmetrical one , in which the surfaces of equal density were spherical but not concentric , so that the point of maximum density coincided neither with the centre of gravity nor the centre of of the earth 's surface .
It was suggested that traces of this unsymmetrical configuration might still be found in the arrangement of oceans and plateaux on the earth 's surface .
In 1906 , Lord Rayleigh a paper " " On the Dilatational Stability of the Earth drew attention to the wide departure from actuality implied in my assuloptions , and suggested a set of assumptions which had more justification in nature .
Lord 's suggestion was , in brief , that we regard the ymmetrical configuration as one in which the gravitational forces were balanced by hydrostatic pressures only .
When disturbed , there is an additional stress superposed on to the hydrostatic pressure , and Lord Bayleigh gested that this might be supposed connected with the additional strain - , the strain above and beyond that in the initial configuration the ordinary elastic solid relations .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 201 , p. 157 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 486 .
Mr. J. H. Jeans .
These )hysical concepts , of course , presented a definite mathematical problem .
Lord Rayleigh did not give the solution ; this was attempted by Love in 1911 in his Adams Prize Essay , " " Some Problems of Geodynamics Love , however , assumes , the initial density , and , the elastic constants , to be constant hout the mass .
He remarks : : ' In a general theory we ought to take them to be functions , but as we cannot make any progress with a theory in which , and are functions of , we shall treat them henceforward as constants Subject to these assumptions , " " the .
result is found that , if the rigidity is rather small , compared with the resistance to compression , the body may be unstable in respect of displacements specified by spherical harmonics of the first degree , although stable as regards radial displacements .
This result is distinctly favourable to the hypothesis that the division of the earth 's surface into a landhemisphere and a water-hemisphere may be a survival from a past state in which a symmetrical arrangement of the matter about the centre would have been unstable The simple considerations brought forward in the present note seem , however , to show that when , and are allowed to take their natural values as determined by the configuration of the mass , this result is no longer true .
The spherical symmetrical ement appears always to be stable .
2 .
If at any stage the symmetrical arrangement becomes unstable , the transition from stability to in stability must be through a iration in which one of the vibrations is of zero frequency , this configuration being a " " point of bifurcation\ldquo ; in Poincare 's terminology .
Ifi instability sets in through first harmonic displacements , there must be two adjacent configurations of equilibrium for the same mass , one symmetrical , and the other derived from the symmetrical configuration by first harmonic displacements .
The boundary of the latter confiuraton will be spherical , and , as far as first order terms , its radius will be the same as that of the symmetrical configuration .
The question before us is accordingly whether there can , inside the same boundary , be two adjacent configurations , both being configurations of equilibrium , but one being symmetrical and the other unsymmetrical .
We may consider the latter as being derived by distortion from the former .
Let be the hydrostatic pressure in the symmetrical configuration , and let , in the ordinary notation be the components of strain experienced by an element which was initially at pressure .
Following Lord ayleigh 's suggestion , the components of stress after distortion will be , etc. , , etc. ( 1 ) Gravitational bility the Figure of the Earth .
415 where stands for , the added cubical dilatation of any element of the mass produced by the additional strain .
The condition that the strained configuration shall be one of equilibrium is expressed by three equations of the type , etc. , ( 2 ) where is the gravitational potential .
3 .
Consider first simple case in which .
Equations ( 1 ) reduce to ( 3 ) so that the system of stresses reduces to a pure hydrostatic pressure of amount .
Denoting this by , equations ( 2 ) reduce to the usual hydrostatic equations .
( 4 ) It follows in the usual way that the surfaces cons .
and the surfaces cons .
both coincide with the surfaces cons .
The boundary condition , expressed in elastic solid form , is , so that at the boundary constant , as is , of course , obvions also from the hydrostatic aspect of the problem .
Thus .
the boundary must be an equipotential , say .
This boundary is spherical , whence it follows that the external equipotentials must be a system of concentric spheres , and hence is consta1lt over the boundary .
Both and are , of course , continuous on crossing the boundary .
Let the potential at any internal point in the unsymmetrical configuration be taken to be where and are functions of , and is the first zonal harmonic Then we musC have , at the boundary , , ( 5 ) .
( 6 ) Let the density at any internal point be given by then , since the surfaces cons .
coincide with the surfaces cons .
, we must also have at the boundary , , ( 7 ) .
( 8 ) From Poisson 's relation , we at once obtain .
( 9 ) Mr. J. H. Jeans .
From equations ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and ( 7 ) , it follows that we must have ( 10 ) at the boundary , and therefore also , as before , .
( 11 ) Equation ( 9 ) is true at all points of the mass : by successive differentiations with respect to , we obtain at boundary .
Thus and all its differential coefficients vanish at the boundary , so that must vanish at all points inside .
This ] step falls somewhat short of absolute mathematical ; indeed , there will probably be a few cases of failure of a highly artificial nature .
We may , however , reflect that the initial distribution of density and potential in the mass will be determined by natural causes which will make it infinitely improbable that the ement of matter will correspond to one of the cases of failure ; and , moreover , if at any instant the arrangement of matter was such that one of these cases of failure actually occurred , the slightest in the physical conditions , such as might , for instance , be caused by cooling , would immediately alter this state of things .
We may get some idea of the degree of improbability involved , by considering what would be the actual procedure in discussing a definite concrete case .
If were given as a function of , the value of would appear as the solution of a certain differential equation .
A first condition that the configuration should be one of equilibrium would be that should vanish at the boundary\mdash ; for instance , in the discussions given by Lord Raylei , and myself , this equation took the form and the roots in gave the radii at which the symmetrical configuration first became unstable .
But the differential coefficients of do not vanish for these same values of , and it would only be in a very special case in which happened to be replaced by a function which had one root in common with all its , such as Cauchy 's function that we should have found a true point of bifurcation .
* *In Love 's analysis ( ' Some Problems of Geodynamics ' ) we obtain vibrations of zero frequency on putting .
On further putting , his equation ( 22 ) on p. 95 reduces to , whence by S110 it follows that everywhere .
Thus the supposed vibration of zero frequency reduces merely to a rigid body displacement , which of course does not in any sense mark a transition from stability to instability .
Gravitational bility and the Figure of the Earth .
417 For practical purposes , then , we may conclude that when , there is uo solution except the spherically symmetrical one ; excentric distributions are impossible , and the spherically symmetrical istribution is necessarily stable for first harmonic displacements .
4 .
When is different from zero , the problem again reduces to examining whether there can be two adjacent urations of equilibrium , the one being symmetrical and the other excentric .
It is , perhaps , almost obvious that rigidity must tend towards stability , so that if a mass cannot become unstable when , then a fortiori it cannot do so when is different from zero .
A formal proof can be constructed as follows:\mdash ; Let the decrease of gravitational energy in from the symmetrical configuration to the excentric one be , and let the of elastic energy be .
Then the condition that the excentric distribution shall be one of equilibrium is .
( 12 ) The value of is , however , known to be dxdydz where denotes the hydrostatic pressure of the element now at ?
, when in its unstressed state .
This can be put in the forul where contains all the terms which do not inyolve , and is essentially positive .
If the value , of had been zero everywhere , the increase of elastic energy would have been .
Thus , from the result proved in S3 , it follows that must be greater than , so that a fortiori must be greater than , and equation ( 12 ) cannot be satisfied for any possible displacement .
5 .
It now appears that , for a natural mass under natural conditions , the spherically symmetrical configuration can become unstable through first harmonic displacements .
All such instability , proved or suspected , appears to be only a consequence of artificial conditions which were assumed , in the first instance by myself , with a view to making the analysis manageable , and the attempted explanation of the earth 's dissymmetry of figure fails entirely .

