Some Experiments on the Changes which take place in the fixed Principles of the Egg during Incubation .
By William Prout , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 20 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 377 .
] In the researches detailed in this paper , the author 's attention was chiefly directed to the nature , proportions , and changes of the earthy and saline substances contained in the egg , and to the source of the matter constituting the skeleton of the chick .
He therefore analysed the egg first in its recent state , and then at the end of the first , second , and third weeks of incubation , his experiments being principally confined to the eggs of the domestic fowl .
After some preliminary details relating to the variations in weight which eggs suffer when kept , and which show that for a considerable period they sustain a daily loss of about nine grains , and that the relative weights of the shell , albumen , and yolk , are liable to considerable variation , Dr. Prout proceeds to describe the manner in which he conducted his analysis , especially in relation to the saline principles of the yolk .
This substance is remarkably difficult of incineration , in consequence of the phosphorus which it contains burning into phosphoric acid , which forms a coating that protects the coal from the action of the air .
The general results of these experiments are thrown into the form of tables .
They show that the relative weights of the constituent principles of different eggs vary considerably , and that during incubation the loss of weight exceeds by about eiglit times that which the egg sustains by ordinary keeping .
That in the earlier stages of incubation an interchange of principle takes l)lace between the yolk and a portion of the albumen , which passes into a substance in some respects analogous to curd of milk .
That as incubation proceeds , the phosphorus of the yolk becomes phosphoric acid , which , united with lime , is found in the bones of the chicken ; which lime , Dr. Prout thinks , makes its appearance in some unaccountable manner , and from some unknown source , and that it does not pre-exist in any known state in the recent egg .
Its only possible source , observes Dr. Prout , is the shell ; but we are precluded ascertaining the exact quantity of lime in any particular shell before and after incubation , and the application of averages cannot be resorted to , in consequence of the great difference of weight in the shells of different eggs .
The author 's reasons for doubting that origin , or source of the lime , are , that the membrane in contact with the shell is never vascular , and that both the albumen and the yolk contain at the end of incubation a considerable quantity of earthy matter , which one would suppose would have been appropriated to the bone in preference to that derived from a more remote source .
Dr. Prout observes , that the circumstance of the shell becoming very brittle towards the end of incubation , may by some be ascribed to the absorption of a portion of its substance ; but this he is inclined rather to refer to the heat requisite to the process of incubation , which he thinks is sufficient to account for all the known changes which the shell suffers .
He is of opinion that great doubt hangs over

