1887 .
] The Fructification of the Carboniferous Catamites .
389 Since the degree of concentration of the solution greatly affects the electromotive force of the metal , and since in the act of deposition of a metal from its solution the concentration of the liquid around the cathode is reduced , owing to slowness of diffusion , it follows that in electrodeposition the counter electromotive force at the cathode will vary with the rate at which metal is being deposited , and will , therefore , vary with the current-density employed .
And since , moreover , the variations in electromotive force due to differences of concentration are greater for copper than for zinc , it follows that in the deposition of brass from a mixed solution of cyanides of a medium concentration in which zinc is slightly more electropositive than copper , there will be a certain density of current with which the metals will be deposited in nearly equal quantities , whilst for weaker current-densities the less electropositive metal will be deposited in excess , and for stronger current-densities the more electropositive metal will be deposited in excess .
Hence to variations in the concentration of the electrolyte near the cathode are due the departures , observed with all currents except weak ones , from the law that out of a solution of mixed metals the least electropositive is deposited first .
XIII .
" On the true Fructification of the Carboniferous Cala-mites .
" By William Crawford Williamson , LL. JD .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College and the Victoria University .
Received May 17 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The true systematic position of the Carboniferous Calamites has long been a debateable subject , owing to the lack of satisfactory evidence respecting the character of their fructification .
Some years ago , Mr. Carruthers and the late Mr. Binney expressed their conviction that Calamostachys Binneyana stood in that relationship to Calamites , a conclusion which the author was unable to accept ; but in 1869 he obtained a fragment of a new Cryptogamic fruit , of which he published an account in the ' Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester .
' The central axis of this Strobilus presented so many details of structure hitherto seen only in Calamites as convinced the author that it was the true fructification of these plants .
Many years elapsed before a second example of this interesting fruit was discovered , but seven or eight specimens of it recently found in a nodule from near Oldham , have come into the author 's possession ; these examples are in a sufficiently excellent state of 390 Sir Richard Owen .
On Echidna Ramsayi ( Ow .
) .
[ June lfl preservation to enable him to illustrate almost every detail of thei structure .
They not only support his previous conclusions , but they supply irresistible evidence that those conclusions are correct ones .
Fortunately , at least three of the Strobili have attached to them the ends of the twigs which supported them ; these peduncles are indisputably Calamites of the type to which Goppert assigned the generic name of Arthropitus , which genus several of the French Palaeontologists have long insisted upon classing with the Gymno-spermous plants .
The fruit is beyond question that of a true spore-bearing Cryptogam ; a fact which determines the Equisetiform affinities of the entire Calamitean group ; since if any members of that group might possibly have been regarded as Gymnosperms , it certainly was those of the Arthropitean type .
But of all such possibilities there is now an end .
XIV .
" On Fossil Remains of Echidna Ramsayi ( Ow .
) .
Part II .
" By Sir Richakd Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received May 20 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) Since the transmission of the evidence of the large extinct species of Echidna , the subject of the paper ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1884 , p. 273 , Plate 14 ) , the discoverer of the specimen , Ed. P. Ramsay , Esq. , F.L.S. , has prosecuted his researches in the " Wellington bone and breccia caves , New South Wales , " and has added to the mutilated subject of that paper an entire humerus , a large portion of the sknll , the atlas vertebra , a tibia , and fragmentary evidences of other parts of the same skeleton\#151 ; adding to the knowledge of a former existence in Australia of Echidna Ramsayi .
The edentulous condition , proportions , and conformation of the jaws , together with other characteristic modifications of this mono-trematous genus , are repeated on the same magnified scale as in the mutilated arm-bone previously described and figured .
The predatory subject of the paper on Thylacoleo carnifex ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1887 ) was discovered in the same cave , and exemplifies the leonine marsupial which contributed to the extinction of the larger phytophagous and monotrematous Mammals of the Australian Continent .

