1874 .
] On Experiments with a Fireman 's Respirator .
IV .
" Further Experiments on the Transmission of Sound .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received May 21 , 1874 .
The author describes a number of experiments made with heterogeneous atmospheres obtained by saturating alternate layers of air with the vapours of various volatile liquids .
Starting from his observation on the transmission of sound through a snow-storm on the Mer de Glace , in the winter of 1859 , he shows the extraordinary power of sound to pass through the interstices of solid bodies as long as the continuity of the air is preserved .
Sound , for example , penetrates through twelve layers of a silk handkerchief , while a single layer of the same handkerchief dipped into water , so as to fill the interstices , cuts off the sound .
He also describes numerous experiments with artificial fogs of a density so great that a depth of three feet sufficed to intercept the concentrated beam of the electric light ; the effect of such fogs on sound was sensibly nil .
Experiments were also executed on the illumination of such fogs by sudden flashes , obtained by the combustion of gunpowder or gun-cotton , or by the alternate extinction and revival of the electric and other lights .
Such flashes promise to be extremely useful as fog-signals .
The author corrects the mistake of supposing that , in the experiments at the South Foreland , the lower trumpets were not compared with the higher ones .
This , in fact , was the first step of the inquiry .
He also communicated an extraordinary instance of the interception of sound during one of the battles of the late American war .
In these experiments the author has been ably aided by his assistant , Mr. John Cottrell .
An account of the experiments will be found in a paper now printing for the Philosophical Transactions .
V. " On some recent Experiments with a Fireman 's Respirator .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received May 21,1874 .
In vol. clx .
of the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1870 , p. 337,1 refer to certain experiments on the " floating matter of the air , " which were afterwards considerably expanded and in part described in my ' Fragments of Science .
' These experiments , in which my object was to obtain optically pure air by filtration through cotton-wool , suggested to me the notion of a fireman 's respirator .
Cotton-wool had been previously employed by Schroeder and Pasteur in their experiments on spontaneous generation .
I had heard that smoke was a formidable obstacle to the fireman , and that cases of suffocation were not rare ; hence the desire to construct a VOL. XXII .
2 F

