The After-luminosity of Electric Discharge in Hydrogen .
529 ( 2 ) The ratio of emergent to incident 7-radiation is greater , for radiators of the same material , the thinner the radiator , for radiators of different materials thick enough to stop the / 3-rays , the lower the atomic weight .
( 3 ) Results obtained point to the conclusion that the ray is an entity , the direction of which is nearly that of the / 3-ray exciting it .
( 4 ) For / 3-rays of the speed used , the chance of a / 3-ray making a 7-ray is roughly proportional to the atomic weight of the radiator , provided the / 3-ray spends its range in the radiator .
In conclusion , the writer has much pleasure in expressing his best thanks to Prof. Kutherford for his very helpful interest in this research , and for the use of the very active preparation of radium D necessary .
The After-luminosity of Electric Discharge in Hydrogen , observed by Hertz .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received March 1 , \#151 ; Read March 21 , 1912 .
) In previous papers I have examined certain striking cases of afterluminosity in gases through which the electric discharge has been passed .
The cases dealt with fall under two heads , those due to ozone , and those due to active nitrogen .
I wish now to pass.to a case in which neither of these substances is concerned .
Hertz* described a phenomenon of after-luminosity which he had observed in hydrogen .
The method of investigation was somewhat special .
A series of jar discharges was passed through a small discharge tube , with an open end , arranged inside a bell jar .
It was then observed that at each discharge a stream of luminous gas was squirted from the end of the small discharge tube into the bell jar .
This is apparently due to a kind of explosive action of the spark\#151 ; the same , probably , as that described by De La Rue and Muller.f The method is well adapted to show the afterglow in other gases , nitrogen or air , for instance , but the immediate concern is with hydrogen .
With this gas , Hertz sometimes observed a jet of blue luminosity , which was best developed at a pressure of * 4 Wied .
Ann. , ' 1883 , vol. 19 , p. 78 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , vol. 171 , p. 86 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The After-luminosity of [ Mar. ] , 100 mm. He considered that he had good evidence that this luminosity showed the hydrogen spectrum , but he found an unaccountable capriciousness of the effect , which sometimes refused to appear at all .
He did not succeed in tracing the cause of this uncertainty .
Goldstein* made similar experiments ; he states that the spectrum consists of at least 10 bands , from the green to the ultra-violet , totally unrelated to the recognised hydrogen spectrum .
But he believed that the glow was due to pure hydrogen .
This glow is of very short duration .
I have not been able to observe it , either by the use of a rapid stream of gas , as in the former investigations , or by the simple method of looking at the vessel immediately after the discharge is stopped .
Hertz 's method is much more searching for detecting a glow of very short life .
The form of discharge vessel used in my experiments is shown in fig. 1 , which scarcely needs detailed explanation .
Jar discharges take place between the electrodes a , \amp ; , which have a spark-gap in series with them .
The glowing Fig. 1 .
gas is squirted into the large bulb e , and the glow remains continuously visible in this bulb , in a state of turbulent motion , as long as the induction coil is in action .
On admitting commercial hydrogen from a cylinder of the compressed gas to a pressure of about 50 mm. , the blue glow described by Hertz was brilliantly developed .
I never failed to obtain it in this way , and to maintain it as long as desired .
The first object was to photograph the spectrum , which was readily done by means of a small quartz spectrograph , through a quartz window ( not shown ) in the side of the bulb c. The spectrum is reproduced * * Verhand .
d. Phys. Gesellsch .
, ' 1883 , vol. 2 , p. 16 .
Electric Discharge in Hydrogen .
1912 .
] in fig. 2 , and was at once recognised as identical with the spectrum obtained when active nitrogen is passed over heated sulphur.* A photograph of the latter taken with the same instrument was an exact facsimile of that of the hydrogen afterglow here reproduced .
The same bands occur in the flame of carbon disulphide , but obscured to some extent by a continuous background .
Fig. 2 .
The Hjg line which appears in the photograph is , no doubt , due to stray reflected light from the discharge .
The sodium line was put on for reference .
The blue glow of hydrogen , then , is connected with the presence of sulphur as an impurity in the gas .
On cooling the annexe d of the vessel in liquid air , so as to condense out sulphuretted hydrogen ( or any other sulphur compound ) , the glow disappears completely in one or two minutes .
On removing the liquid air , and allowing the glass to warm up , it is restored to its full brilliancy .
This is a striking experiment , and can readily be shown to a large audience . .
In another experiment , after removing sulphuretted hydrogen by condensation , so as to get rid of the glow , a fresh quantity of that gas was admitted , amounting by volume to about one-twentieth pnrt of the hydrogen present .
The blue glow at once reasserted itself .
There was some deposition of sulphur on the walls of the discharge tube , and it was found impossible now to get rid of the glow by condensation .
Evidently fresh sulphur enters into combination with hydrogen under these conditions , and continually replaces what has beerf removed .
It is ' clear that the quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen admitted was enormously in excess of what was necessary in order to bring in the blue glow in full intensity .
The formation of this glow seems , in fact , to be an exceedingly sensitive test for the presence of sulphur in hydrogen\#151 ; a test that might with advantage be made use of by anyone requiring the purest hydrogen lor determination of physical constants .
The commercial bottled hydrogen above mentioned was found incapable of discolouring moistened lead test- * Strutt and Fowler , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , A , vol. 86 , p. 112 .
532 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The After-luminosity of [ Mar. 1 ?
paper , even when passed over it for an hour in a rapid stream .
Yet this hydrogen gave the blue glow in full brilliance .
Again , a discharge vessel which had been washed out with sulphuric acid , and afterwards with water , gave the glow persistently , in spite of the treatment with liquid air , which is so successful in removing it from a new tube .
Probably continual supplies of sulphur were afforded by a slight deposit of sulphate on the aluminium electrodes .
It has been mentioned that the spectrum of the blue glow is identical with that of sulphur in active nitrogen , or of carbon disulphide burning in air .
Conceivably , in both these cases , the spectrum might be due to a compound of nitrogen and sulphur .
It became important , therefore , to test whether nitrogen as well as sulphur was necessary to the formation of the blue glow in hydrogen .
Some charcoal was placed in the lower part ( d , fig. 1 ) of the discharge vessel , and a small fragment of sulphur fused on to the glass in the upper part , near where the discharge passes .
The charcoal was immersed in liquid air , and hydrogen admitted until the charcoal was saturated at a pressure of 50 mm. of mercury .
The tube was then sealed off , keeping the charcoal cooled .
The blue glow remained in full intensity for an hour , after which the experiment was discontinued .
If any trace of nitrogen had been initially present in the hydrogen used ( and none wTas visible spectroscopically ) it could not have failed to be removed by this prolonged exposure to cooled charcoal .
Sulphuretted hydrogen was , no doubt , removed too , but its loss was made good from the solid sulphur intentionally introduced , as in one of the experiments previously described .
I conclude , therefore , that the spectrum of the blue glow is essentially a spectrum of the element sulphur .
It may occur in the absence of hydrogen , as when developed by active nitrogen , and in the absence of nitrogen , as in the above experiment .
I have not succeeded in obtaining the well developed blue^glow in sulphur vapour alone .
It seems , therefore , that the glow must be dependent on a combination of sulphur and hydrogen with luminosity after they have left * the discharge .
For this to occur , one or other of the substances must be in a special condition of chemical activity , analogous , perhaps , to ozone or to active nitrogen .
I have not been able to devise an experiment to decide which of the elements concerned possesses this peculiarity .
The extreme shortness of its duration makes it impossible to apply the synthetic methods ' which have been so successful in the cases of ozone or active nitrogen .
But on general grounds it is perhaps more likely7 that the sulphur is in a peculiar state .
1912 .
] Electric Discharge in Hydrogen .
[ Addition , March 26.\#151 ; Selenium and tellurium , the elements most kindred to sulphur , give similar effects .
A fragment of tellurium was placed in a discharge vessel like fig. 1 , where it could get heated by the spark , and hydrogen was admitted to 50 mm. pressure .
The deep blue glow due to sulphur was at first visible , but as the tellurium got heated up it was replaced by a greenish-blue afterglow , quite distinct from the former .
At the same time the walls of the globe acquired an opaque deposit of tellurium .
The glow showed a spectrum of narrow uniformly spaced bands from the red to the blue .
With selenium very similar effects were observed .
The general colour of the glow was nearly the same as with tellurium , but not bright enough to make spectroscopic observation easy .
Arsenic was tried in the same way , as forming a gaseous compound with hydrogen .
No glow was observed due to arsenic , and the glow of sulphur , originally present in the hydrogen used , was quickly destroyed .
Probably the sulphur reacted with arsenic vapour and was thus removed .
] Pure hydrogen gives no afterglow whatever .
In this respect it resembles pure oxygen , * and differs strikingly from pure nitrogen.f In conclusion , I wish to express my best thanks to my colleague , Prof. A. Fowler , F.R.S. , for help most kindly given in preparing for publication the photograph reproduced in fig. 2 , and for advice on the spectroscopic side of the work generally .
* 4 Phys. Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , vol. 24 , p. 4 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 1911 , A , vol. 85 , p. 219 .

