An Essay on Egyptian Mummies ; with Observations on the Art of Embalming among the ancient Egyptians .
By A. B. Granville , M.D. F.R.S. F.L.S. F. G.S. M.R.I. one of His Royal Hiighness the Duke of Clarence 's Physicians in Ordinary , 8rc .
8$c .
Read April 14 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 269 .
] The mummy described in this paper was purchased at Gournou ; it was in a single case of the usual form , and covered with cere cloth bandages , very neatly and dexterously applied , and among which both cotton and linen were recognised .
These , to the amount of 28 pounds avoirdupois in weight , having been removed , the body was discovered to be that of a female .
The abdominal integuments were remarkably wrinkled , and the whole surface of a dark brown colour and dry , but in many places soft to the touch , and with the exception of a few parts , entirely deprived of cuticle .
The height of the mummy from the vertex of the head to the inferior surface of the calcaneum was 5 feet -inch , and the principal dimensions of the several parts correspond with those which are usually considered as giving rise to the utmost perfection of female form in the European race , neither was any trait of Ethiopian character discernible in the form of the cranium ; all which , observes Dr. Granville , supports Cuvier 's opinion respecting the Caucasian origin of the Egyptians .
T'he author then proceeds to a brief summary of the present state of our information respecting Egyptian mummies , attributing its scantiness and imperfection to the rarity of perfect specimens , nearly all the mummies hitherto described , presenting little else than imperfect skeletons enveloped in bandages , sometimes covered by the dry skin .
In proceeding to examine the present specimen , the integuments and muscles of the abdomen were first removed , and the contents of that cavity carefully iinspected .
They consisted of a portion of the stomach adhering to the diaphragm , the spleen attached to the suprarenal capsule of the left kidney , and the left kidney itself , with the ureter descending into the bladder , which with the uterus and its appendages were observed insitu , the latter exhibiting marks of disease .
Fragments only of the intestinal tube were discoverable ; and there were a few lumps of resin , of a compound of clay and bitumen , and a few pieces of myrrh .
The right kidney , the liver , and minor glandswere missing , but the gall-bladderwas detected among the loose fragments of membranles and other soft parts , together with remains of its own ducts .
r1'he soft parts of the pelvis were then particularly examined , and the perfect condition of the muscles , membranes , and ligaments particularly noticed .
The cavity of the thorax was next exaxnined , by detaching the diaphragm , to which part of the pericardium adhered ; and the heart , in a very contracted state , was afterwards found suspended by its vessels , and attached to the lungs , which adhered to the ribs .
Upon the examination of the cranium , it was evident that the brain Ilhad been remxoved through the nostrils , from the lacerated conidition of the inner nasal bones , the eyes appear ' not to have been disturbed , the tongue was entire , and the teeth white and perfect .
Dr. Granville next proceeds to draw some conclusions as to the age at which this mummied female died , and respecting the disease which destroyed her .
The bones of the ileum exhibit that peculiar thinness of their osseous plates which show the individual to have exceeded her fortiethl year , and to have borne children ; and as there are no characters of age or decrepitude about the skeleton , the author considers her to have been about fifty .
The ovarium and broad ligament of the right side were enveloped in a mass of diseased structure , while the Fallopian tube of the same side was sound ; but the uterus itself was larger than natural , and the remains of a sac were found connected with the left ovarium ; all which , connected with the appearance of the abdominal integuments , leave no doubt of ovarian dropsy having been the disease under which the individual suffered .
The author concludes this communication with some observations respecting the method of embalming generally , and the nature of the substances employed in the process , from the details of which he draws the following conclusions : The abdominal viscera were more or less perfectly extracted , either through an incision on one side of the abdomen , or , as in the present mummy , through the anus .
The thoracic cavity was not disturbed .
The contents of the cranium were removed sometimes through the nostrils , and in others through one of the orbits .
The body was then probably covered with quick-lime , to facilitate the removal of the cuticle , the scalp and nails being , however , left untouched ; after which , it was immersed in a melted mixture of wax , resin , and bitumen , until thoroughly penetrated ; and ultimately subjected to a tanning liquor , probably made with the saline water of the neiglibouring natron lakes .
The bandages were applied with the occasional interposition of melted resin , or wax and resin , the lumps of resin , myrrh , &amp;c. , having been previously placed in the abdomen .

