348 The Discovery of a Remedy for Malignant Jaundice in the Dog and for Redwater in Cattle .
By George H. E. Nuttall , M.D. , Ph. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Quick Professor of Biology in the University of Cambridge ; and Seymour Hadwen , D.V.Sci .
( McGill ) of the Department of Agriculture , Canada .
( Received June 22 , \#151 ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) Judging from the literature relating to piroplasmosis , no drug is known which exerts any curative action on either canine or bovine piroplasmosis .
The canine disease is exceedingly fatal , and , in certain localities , especially in South Africa , it is almost impossible to keep dogs .
On the other hand , the disease in cattle causes enormous financial losses , especially in America , Australia , and Africa , not only by causing a considerable mortality , but also by producing a long-lasting anaemia in many of the affected animals .
The discovery of a drug which will bring about a cure of piroplasmosis is therefore a matter of practical importance .
Our object in publishing this communication is to announce the discovery of such a remedy .
Whilst a full description of our experiments will shortly be published in ' Parasitology/ we desire to place the main facts on record .
Canine Piroplasmosis .
We have discovered that trypanblau and try panrot are highly efficient remedies in the treatment of canine piroplasmosis .
The drugs exert a direct and observable effect upon the parasites by causing the pyriform parasites to quickly disappear ; in most cases causing the total disappearance of the parasites from microscopic observation in the peripheral blood .
The disappearance of the parasite is usually temporary , since they may reappear in small numbers after an interval of 9 to 12 days ; the treated dogs , as a rule , show no symptoms and gradually progress towards complete recovery .
In our experience the treated dogs show little or no loss of weight ; this being in marked contrast to what is usually observed in the dogs which chance to recover naturally .
Our experiments were carried out upon 20 dogs of various breeds and ages , the majority being highly susceptible puppies .
We experimented with a very virulent strain of Piroplasma canis from Cape Colony .
All of the 7 control ( untreated ) dogs died of piroplasmosis : 6 died within 7 to 13 days , and 1 on the 36th day after inoculation with virulent blood .
The remaining dogs , 13 in number , were treated as follows:\#151 ; The Discovery of a Remedy for Malignant Jaundice , etc. 349 Results of Treatment with Trypanblau ( up to June 17 , 1909 ) .
Dog .
Treated dogs .
Control dogs .
( Inoculated at the same time as the treated dogs .
) 1 Kept under observation 90 days Control died after 7 days .
2 \#187 ; \#187 ; 83 , , \gt ; \gt ; 33 7 3 \#187 ; \#187 ; 69 " \gt ; \#187 ; 33 9 \gt ; \gt ; 4 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 65 , , 33 5\gt ; 8 3 ) 5 \gt ; .
\#187 ; 42 \#187 ; 33 J ) 36 33 6 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 48 , , 33 5J 8 33 7 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 62 , , \gt ; \gt ; 7 33 8 Died of relapse after 13 " 33 J ) 7 33 9 10 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 4o , , Treated when moribund , the dog died three hours later , but the drug obviously affected the parasites 33 \gt ; 5 7 33 11 1 Treated 24 hours after inoculation ( i.e. before the parasites had appeared ) , dog alive and wrell after 65 days ; it never showed parasites 33 7 33 ?
Results of Treatment with Trypanrot .
Dog .
Treated dogs .
Control dogs .
12 13 Alive and well after 111 days Treated in an advanced stage of the disease , the dog died 20 days after inoculation , but no parasites could be found in the blood .
The dog apparently died from the after effects of piroplasmosis Control dog died after 9 days .
33 33 ^ , , The above table speaks for itself , it scarcely requires any comment .
We very much regret that we have lost four of our treated dogs from inter-current disease .
Two of these dogs died of distemper ( 42 and 43 days respectively after inoculation ) , one died of distemper and mange combined ( 69 days after inoculation ) , and one died of severe generalised mange due to Demodex folliculorum ( 52 days after inoculation ) .
Dog 13 was treated in an advanced stage of the disease , but its life was prolonged ; it is worthy of note that no parasites could be found in the animal at autopsy .
Dog 10 was treated only three hours before death ; the drug markedly affected the parasites , but it was too late to save the dog 's life .
In only two cases did we see a relapse follow five days after apparently successful treatment ; this was in two very small and poorly developed puppies .
The remaining dogs are alive and well to-day and show no parasites microscopically in their blood .
As previously stated , the drugs exert a direct effect upon the parasites .
The percentage of infected corpuscles is decreased , the pyriform parasites disappear , rounded and degenerated parasites are seen for a time , and , after 350 The Discovery of a Remedy for Malignant , etc. a while , all parasites are lost to view .
When , after an interval , the parasites reappear , they do so in exceedingly small numbers , and , after a while , they disappear completely and finally .
All of our dogs were treated by subcutaneous injections of saturated solutions of the dyes .
Bovine Piroplasviosis .
With regard to red water , we are in a position to state that trypanblau exerts a very prompt effect upon the parasite .
The effect is precisely similar to that observed in Piroplasma cams .
Our experiments upon the bovine disease are still in progress , but we feel that they are sufficiently advanced to warrant the trial of the remedy in the field .
We shall report upon our results in a future communication .
The results of these experiments are of considerable interest , since they throw additional light upon the biology of the parasites and entirely confirm the observations of Nuttall and Graham-Smith upon the usual mode of multiplication of the parasites in the circulating blood .
The striking effects of the drugs upon the parasites led us directly to make enumerations of the different forms of parasites occurring in the blood of treated and untreated animals .
The result of these observations has been to bring to light several interesting facts regarding the life-history of the parasites .
Bast Coast Fever .
Incidentally we may mention that in one experiment which we have tried , trypanblau exerted no effect whatsoever on the parasite of East Coast Fever in cattle .
This does not appear to us surprising , since the parasite is very different from Piroplasma , although most writers still persist in retaining it in the genus .
For reasons stated elsewhere by Nut tall ( 1908 ) , the parasite of East Coast Fever should be named T Conclusions .
The obvious practical conclusions to be drawn from our results is that the remedies will prove of value in practice .
It is highly probable that they will act in a similar manner in relation to equine and ovine piroplasmosis .
The mere fact that remedial agents have been found for diseases which have hitherto run their course , in spite of all treatment , is encouraging , since with time we may reasonably hope to cope with these maladies in an efficient manner .

