1875 .
] On Cerebral Lobes in Higher .
563 The results for this station are:\#151 ; 0 " Variation ... ... ... ... .V= 28 27 24 Dip ... ... ... ... ... ... D= 53 49 46 Horizontal force ... .X= 4*3798 Magnetic moment ... , m= 0*4271 Total force ... ... ... .3 ?
= 7*4210 The numerous observations for time at the different stations have not been given , as of no interest .
I arrived in Namaqualand on April 9 , by the Union steamship ' Namaqua/ Captain Barker , reached Port Nolloth , on my return , on the evening of Wednesday , April 29 , but did not sail until Wednesday , May 6 , reaching the observatory on Saturday , May 9 .
XVI .
" On the Proportions of the several Lobes of the Cerebrum in Man and in certain of the higher Vertebrata , and on an attempt to explain some of the Asymmetry of the Cerebral Convolutions in Man .
" By John Marshall , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S.E. , Professor of Surgery , University College , London , \amp ; c. Received June 17 , 1875 .
1 .
I desire to communicate to the Royal Society the fact that I have , by severing the cerebral hemispheres in certain definite directions in Man , and also in some of the higher Vertebrata , and by then weighing the separated portions , not only arrived at some interesting and important results as to the relative size of those portions in different animals and in Man , but I am enabled to state that this method , applied to the brains of individuals of different race , sex , age , education , and occupation , seems likely to furnish a means of investigating individual peculiarities in the human cerebrum .
I propose shortly to communicate my results to the Society .
2 .
I have likewise made numerous observations on the convolutions of the human brain with the view of explaining their symmetry in certain regions , and their asymmetry in others .
In endeavouring to trace more particularly the causes of the asymmetry of the convolutions which prevails in Man , I have been led to believe that some , at least , of this is due to the right-handedness of Man .
I find , on studying a large number of human cerebra , that there are stronger evidences of essential asymmetry , as distinguished from what I would term non-essential asymmetry , in the immediate neighbourhood of the left fissure of Rolando , and next to this part in the right parietal lobule .
There are certain secondary essential asymmetrical conditions which may be pointed out , and besides this many non-essential and very variable ones .
564 Influence of Stature on Weight of Encephalon .
[ June 1 7 , Evidence can be given in support of these propositions from the examination of foetal brains and the brains of idiots , the former of which exhibit a remarkable , early , and special tendency to deviations in symmetry in the neighbourhood of the left fissure of Rolando .
I regard this as merely a preliminary notice of a future communication .
XVII .
\lt ; c On the Influence of Stature on the Weight of the Encephalon and its parts in Man .
" By John Marshall , E.R.S. , F.R.C.S.E. , Professor of Surgery , University College , London , \amp ; c. Received June 17 , 1875 .
Being anxious , for a certain special purpose , to determine the influence of stature on the weight of the encephalon and its parts in Man , I have , with the consent and ready assistance of Dr. Robert Boyd , further analyzed the MS .
records of the numerous data accumulated by him , from which he framed his tables published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1861 .
1 .
I find , first , that , as might be expected , an increase of stature is accompanied by an increase in the absolute weight of the encephalon or entire brain in both sexes .
Taking both sexes together , the total increase , with a mean range of 11 inches between the highest and lowest group-of individuals examined , is about 6| oz. av .
; in the male series , with a mean range of 7 inches , it is 2f oz. ; in the female series , with a mean range of 6 inches , it is 1\#163 ; oz. Of this increase in absolute weight , the cerebrum , in both sexes , necessarily takes a larger share than the cerebellum ; but having regard to the relative weights of those two organs , viz. as about 8 to 1 , their relative increase is as about 11 to 1 ; so that the cerebrum increases absolutely more than the cerebellum .
The pons with the medulla follows the rate of increase of the cerebellum .
2 .
But , secondly , I find that , notwithstanding this absolute increase in the weight of the encephalon and its parts in obedience to an increase of the stature , the increase itself is not pari passu with the stature ; on the contrary , there is a gradual and progressive relative diminution in the proportion of encephalic substance to the stature as this latter itself increases .
This is equally true if we take the range of stature in both sexes together or in either sex separately .
Hence shorter persons of either sex have , proportionately to their height , a larger amount of brain than , taller ones .
Nevertheless the proportion is larger in the male than in the female , not only generally , but even at corresponding heights\#151 ; as , for example , in short men as compared with tall women .
This is interesting , as evidence that the well-known

