" On the Magnetic Character of the Armour-Plated Ships of the Royal Navy , and on the effect on the Compass of particular arrangements of Iron in a Ship .
" By FREDERICK JOHN EVANS , Staff-Commander R.N. , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Compass Department HI .
M. Navy , and ARCHIBALD SMITH , M.A. , F.R.S. , Corresponding Member of the Scientific Committee of the Imperial Russian Navy .
Received March 9 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains a reduction and discussion of all the observations of deviation and of horizontal and vertical force made in the armour-plated ships of the Royal Navy , and also in certain iron-built ships of the Royal Navy and of the mercantile marine .
It may be considered as a continuation of a paper on the Deviation of the Compass in iron-built ships of the Royal Navy , by Staff Commander Evans , published in the Phil. Trans. for 1860 , p. 337 .
The reduction gives the numerical values of the several parts of the 114 deviation , viz. the " constant , " the " semicircular , " and the " quadrantal " of X , or the proportion of the mean force to north on board to the force to north on shore-of p , the proportion of the vertical force on board to that on shore , of X the heeling coefficient to windward ; also of the several constituent parts of these coefficients .
The following are the principal conclusions derived from these values : The introduction of armour plating , and the great increase in the amount and thickness of iron used in the construction of modern ships of war , have greatly increased the amount of the deviations previously considered , and have given importance to two sources of error not previously considered , viz. the diminution of the directive force , and the heeling error .
To determine these , observations of horizontal and vertical force are necessary , and they are now part of the regular series of observations made by the Superintendent of the Compass Department in the iron-built ships of the Royal Navy .
For the formule by which the reductions are made , and which are derived from Poisson 's General Equations , reference is made to the ' Admiralty Manual for ascertaining and applying the deviations of the compass caused by the iron in a ship , ' 2nd edition , London , 1863 , edited by the authors .
This work has been translated into French by M. Darondeau , into Russian by Captain Belavenetz , of the Russian Navy , and into German by Dr. Schaub , the Director of the Hydrographical Department of the Austrian Navy .
The observations confirm the conclusion formerly obtained , that the semicircular deviation in an iron-built ship is chiefly due to the attraction of the north point of the compass to the part of the ship which was south in building , modified in armour-plated ships by the direction of the ship while being plated .
The observations also show the rapid changes which take place in the semicircular deviation soon after launching , and the considerable changes which take place for about a year afterwards , and the great permanence of the semicircular deviation after that time .
Observations are yet wanting from which the separation of the principal part of the semicircular deviation B into its two constituents can be derived with much certainty .
The following can only be looked on as approximate .
in Egland .
Part of.3 from Part of B from soft iron .
hard iron .
Warrior ... ... ... -24 ' 412 -36+ Black Prince ... ... +23 d-23 0 Defence ... ... ... ... +25 +-141 +-]11 The great difference in the values of the last part in the 'Warrior ' and 'Black Prince ' depend on this , that the ' Warrior ' was built head north , the ' Black Prince ' head south .
1865 .
] 11.5 In the iron-built armour-plated ships the quadrantal deviation becomes very large , -ery much exceeding what has been found in other ships .
This , however , is not to be attributed in all cases to the armour-plating , as is shown by the small values of the quadrantal deviation in the wood-built armour-plated ships ; and theory as well as observation shows that , in the case of a compass in a central position , the armour-plating rather tends to diminish the quadrantal deviation .
The different amount in the different , ships is completely accounted for by the position of the bulkheads and armour-plating , rifle-towers , &amp;c. Thus in the following cases , in which the position of the armour-plating relatively to the compass is such as to increase the quadrantal deviation , the values are , Black Warrior .
la Achilles .
Defence .
Resistance .
Prince .
0 .
0/ 0 Standard compass ... ... 8 27 7 38 ... ... .
706 17 Steering compass ... ... 11 56 10 32 ... ... ... 10 16 8 28 Main-deck compass ... .
11 43 13 6 12 13 14 35 14 0 In the following cases of iron-built ships , the armour-plating is so placed as to have little effect on the quadrantal deviation .
Achilles .
Hector .
Valiant .
Standard compass ... ... 6 58 5 24 4 54 Steering compas3 ... ... 8 51 8 24 6 52 Main-deck compass ... ... ... ... .
9 47 8 05 In the following wood-built armour-plated ships , the armour-plating being carried all round , and the compasses near the centre of the vessel , the effect is to diminish the quadrantal deviation .
Royal Oak .
Prince Caledonia .
Ocean .
Consort .
Standard compass ... ... .
3 09 2 18 2 57 2 31 Steering compass ... ... 1 47 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Main-deck compass ... . .
1 28 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
In one of the turret ships , where the compass was out of the midship line , E , the other part of the quadrantal deviation , attained a large amount , being 4 ?
for one compass , and 9 ?
for the other .
In all the cases of compasses in the midship line , E is small .
The diminution of the directive force in these ships is also remarkable .
In the main-deck compasses of some of the iron-built armour-plated ships the mean directive force hardly exceeds -7 of that on shore .
The most remarkable feature , both in the quadrantal deviation and in 116 the diminution of the directive force , is the constant and regular diminution of both effects with the lapse of time , showing apparently a change in the molecular structure of the iron , by which it becomes less susceptible of induced magnetism .
This change has not yet been connected with any observations on the strength of the iron .
The amount of heeling error in these ships is very considerable , averaging about 1 ?
for every degree of heel , In those which have been built head north it is greater .
Thus in the 'Warrior , ' which was built head north , it is at the standard compass aft 1 ? ?
49 ' for every degree of heel .
This error may be corrected by means of a vertical magnet .
In the woodbuilt armour-plated ships , from the armour-plating causing the vertical force to act upwards , the heeling error is very small , and generally to leeward .
Thus it is , for each degree of heel for the standard compass , in the following shipsRoyal Oak ... ... ... ... 7 ' to windward .
Prince Consort ... ... 8 ' to leeward .
Ocean ... ... ... ... ... .
15 ' to leeward .
The method of obtaining the heeling error by observations of horizontal and vertical force , in addition to observations of deviation , is practically used in this paper for the first time .
The formule for the purpose were given for the first time in the 'Admiralty Manual .
' Among the practical conclusions drawn by the authors , the most important are , that the best position for the ship to be built in is head south ; that armour-plated ships should be plated with the head in the opposite direction to that of building ; that there should be as little iron as possible within a cone traced out by a line passing through the compass , and making an angle of 540 45 ' ( cos- ' )/ with the vertical ; and that in the construction of iron-built and iron-plated ships , regard should be had to providing a suitable place for the standard compass .
The separation of the constituent parts of the various coefficients is not only of great scientific interest , as giving the causes of the different amounts of these parts in different ships , but some of these quantities are so nearly the same in ships of the same class , that when a sufficient number have been observed , we are able , by means of observations of deviation and horizontal and vertical force , made without swinging a ship , and even wxhen she is on the stocks or in dock , to construct by anticipation a table of deviations and of the heeling error .
This method was applied in certain of the cases given in the Tables when there was not an opportunity of swinging the ship .
This method may be expected to be of much use when the selection of a place for the standard compass comes to be considered part of the duty of the naval constructor .
The second part of the paper treats of the effect on the compass of masses of iron of various shapes , bearing some analogy to shapes for 117 1865 .
] which the problem of the distribution of induced magnetism can be exactly solved .
It is known that when a uniform mass of iron is magnetized by induction in a uniform field of force , the effect of the whole magnetism induced throughout the mass is precisely the same as that of a certain distribution of free magnetism on the surface ( including , in the case of a hollow shell , a distribution on the inner surface ) , the amount and law of this distribution depending on a coefficient K , which is zero for nonmagnetic bodies , and infinite for a body infinitely susceptible of induction .
Very few observations of the value of this coefficient have been made .
The only observations of which the authors are aware , made for this special purpose , are those by Weber ( Gotting .
Trans. vol. vi .
p. 20 ) , Thalen ( Nov. Act .
Soc. Reg. Upsal .
1861 ) , and by the authors .
Weber finds for hard steel c-=4'934 , for soft steel K-=561 , for soft iron.=-36 .
Thalen finds for soft iron c varying from 27*24 to 44'23 , the mean being 36'75 .
The authors find , for a rod of iron probably not very different from the iron used in the construction of iron ships , c= 12 when the iron is not struck between reversals , but when hammered sharply it rose to upwards of 80 .
The efect of rods or plates magnetized longitudinally is nearly proportional to K ; but when a mass is magnetized at right angles to its surface the case is very different , and the free magnetism is almost independent of Kc .
Thus in the case of a plate magnetized at right angles to its surface , in the case of a sphere , and in the case of a cylinder magnetized at right angles to its axis , the free magnetism is proportional to 47r7c 4 rrK 27rc 47K -4 and 2respectively , 1+47r'c 1 --7rK 1 +2r c which are so nearly independent of the value of r , that the effect of a sphere of the hardest steel magnetized by induction is within 4 per cent. of the effect of a similar sphere of the softest iron , and the effect of the latter within 1 per cent. of what it would be if the iron were infinitely susceptible of induction .
IHence the magnetism of thin masses of iron depends very much on the quality , and also on whether the iron is hammered or not .
The magnetism of thick masses of iron is almost wholly independent of these circumstances .
One of the most interesting applications of the formulae is the comparative effects of solid and hollow spheres , and bodies of analogous shapes .
The proportion of the effect of a solid sphere to that of a spherical 3 shell of thickness t ( in terms of the radius of the sphere ) is as t+ : t. In the case of soft iron this is about t+ : t , 300 so that when the thickness of the iron considerably exceeds 7go , of the radius of the sphere , the effect of the spherical shell is sensibly the same as that of a solid sphere of the same external diameter .
Mr. Barlow found the above proportion was as 3 : 2 , which gives for Ka value =35 , agreeing closely with the values found by Weber and Thalen .
In the case of iron of the quality experimented on by the authors , this ratio would be t+ 1-t .
100 HIence in the case of a tank -ilth of an inch thick and 4 feet in diameter , t would be about 1 and the effect about 1 that of a solid mass of iron of the same size .
These results , which , however , are not new , as they are involved in Poisson 's paper of 1824 , explain the mistakes into which various magneticians have fallen as to the magnetism residing entirely on the surface , and as to the effect of a body such as a tank depending on its surface , not on its mass .
The same formule show that to correct a quadrantal deviation of 6 ? ?
10 , by two cannon-balls placed one on each side of the compass , the distance of the centre of each ball from the centre of the compass should be three radii of the balls .
If the distance is greater or less , the quadrantal deviation corrected will vary inversely as the cube of the distance .
The investigation also shows that the effect of a sphere of iron , if its centre be within the cone of 54 ? ?
45 ' , will be prejudicial both by diminishing the directive force , and by increasing the heeling error to windward .
When without that cone it will be beneficial in both respects .
Hence , as far as possible , no iron should be within this cone .
Masses of iron which may be compared to a sphere , and near the level of the compass , but in the fore or aft quadrant , are beneficial in increasing the directive force , but prejudicial in increasing the quadrantal deviation .
If they are on the port or starboard quadrant , they are doubly beneficial , by increasing the directive force and diminishing the deviation .
Bodies which may be compared to infinite vertical cylinders , such as iron masts placed before or abaft the compass , are prejudicial by increasing the quadrantal deviation , and they do not increase the directive force .

