1896 .
] OnTuracin and Turacoporpliyrin the Blood .
339 value , a shower of fine rain falls , and this settles within a very few seconds ; if , however , the same expansion he made while the air is exposed to the action of the rays , or immediately after , the drops are sufficiently numerous to form a fog , which persists for some minutes .
In order that direct electrical action might be excluded , experiments were made with the vessel containing the air wrapped in tin-foil connected to earth .
This was exposed to the rays ; the air was then expanded , the current switched off from the induction coil , and finally the tinfoil removed to examine the cloud formed .
As before , a persistent fog was produced with an expansion which without the rays would only have formed a comparatively small number of drops .
It seems legitimate to conclude that when the Rontgen rays pass through moist air they produce a supply of nuclei of the same kind as those which are always present in small numbers , or at any rate of exactly equal efficiency in promoting condensation .
VII .
" On the Relations of Turacin and Turacoporphyrin to the Colouring Matter of the Blood .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College , Victoria University .
Received March 12 , 1896 .
In a recent paper read before the Royal Society , I have shown that the intense absorption band in the extreme violet , which is observed , by means of photography , in the spectrum of highly diluted solutions of hemoglobin and its compounds , is ( with slight changes in its position ) exhibited by certain of the derivatives of the blood colouring matter , e. \lt ; 7 .
, by hemochromogen and the compounds of hematin , and by that remarkably interesting coloured but iron-free derivative of the latter body , hematoporphyrin .
Having found that no organic body which I had examined ( not even such as the colouring matters of alkanet-root or picro-carmine , which present in the visible spectrum absorption bands not unlike those of the blood colouring matter ) exhibits an absorption band occupying the position , or possessed of the remarkable intensity , of the extreme violet band under discussion , it seemed as if the latter owed its origin to a group of atoms existing in and perhaps characteristic of the blood colouring matter , which group remains intact in certain of the products of decomposition of the complex hemoglobin molecule , whereas it does not exist in certain other of the derivatives of the hemochromogen or hematin moiety of the molecule , such as bilirubin and urobilin .
Dr. A Gamgee .
Relations of Turacin and [ Mar. 19 , It occurred to me that it would be extremely interesting to determine whether turacin , which , as Professor Church first showed in 1869 , # presents two absorption bands in the visible spectrum , which have a remarkable resemblance to those of oxy-hsemoglobin , would exhibit in the extreme violet or the ultra-violet , an absorption band similar to that of the compounds and certain of the derivatives of the blood colouring matter .
To my surprise , I discovered that solutions of turacin in caustic soda or ammonia , so dilute as to be almost colourless , and to exhibit , when a stratum 10 mm. thick " was examined , only a faint shading in the position of the stronger of the two turacin bands in the green , absorbed the extreme violet and ultra-violet rays of the spectrum precisely as highly diluted solutions of the acid compounds of hsematin ( e.g. , heematin hydrochloride dissolved in glacial acetic acid ) .
My first observations were made by allowing the spectrum of a beam of sunlight reflected into the dark room from the mirror of the heliostat , and which had passed through the solution of turacin , to fall upon a fluorescent screen of the double cyanide of platinum and barium , when an intense absorption band at the commencement of the ultra-violet was visible to the naked eye .
I subsequently confirmed this observation by taking a series of photographs of the spectrum , employing solutions of turacin of various degrees of G UK L M N O P Q R Absorption Spectrum op Turacin ( violet and ultra-violet ) .
Highly diluted solution in NaOH exhibiting , when a stratum 10 mm. thick was examined , only a faint shadow in the position of the stronger of the two turacin bands in the green.f * A. H. Church , .
" Researches on Turacin , an Animal Pigment containing Copper , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proe./ vol. 17 ( 1869 ) , p. 436 ; 'Phil .
Trans./ vol. 159 ( 1869 ) , pp. 627\#151 ; 636 .
f This solution contained not more than 1 part of turaein in 200,000 parts .
March 22 , 1896 .
1896.J Turcicoporphjrin to the Colouring Matter of the Blood .
341 concentration .
The identity of the spectrum of highly diluted solutions of hsematin hydrochloride and of turacin is so complete that it is impossible to distinguish from the photographs of the spectrum which substance has been employed .
Solutions of turacin in caustic soda or ammonia , so dilute as to be almost colourless , and exhibiting , when a stratum 10 mm. thick is examined , only the faintest shadow in the position of the stronger of the two turacin bands in the green , exhibit an intense absorption band which encroaches more and more on the ultra-violet as the strength of the solution increases .
With a solution just permitting the recognition of both the turacin bands\#151 ; the stratum examined being 10 mm.\#151 ; the band extends between h and M , the most intense absorption occurring between h and L. The less refrangible border of the hand is sharply defined , whilst the more refrangible border is less definite .
As the solution is diluted , the band becomes narrower , through less and less of the ultra-violet rays being absorbed .
In highly dilute solutions , the band , which is still intense , absorbs both H and K. Turacin , therefore , like the acid compounds of haematin , exhibits an absorption band , which is exactly on the boundary of the ultraviolet proper , and which extends further and further into the ultraviolet , as the concentration of the solution increases .
The identity of the spectrum of turacin with that of the hasmatin compounds was so complete that it led me to surmise the existence of a close relationship between the copper-containing body and the colouring matter of the blood .
Although I had ever since their publication been perfectly familiar with Professor Church 's first researches , his second investigation , of which the results were published in 1892 , * was unfortunately unknown to me .
Without any knowledge of this work , in making an oral preliminary communication of my first results to the International Physiological Congress at Berne , in September , 1895 , I expressed my conviction that turacin contains the same atomic group which is the cause of the extreme violet and ultraviolet absorption band in the spectrum of highly dilute solutions of haemoglobin and its derivatives , and I predicted that by removing the copper from turacin , I should be able to obtain a turaco-porphyrin similar to the body which results from the removal of the iron from haematin .
It was only after I had performed the experiments necessary for the elucidation of this point , and had obtained results corroborating Professor Church 's discovery of turacoporphyrin , that the fact of his having anticipated me in this matter was brought under my notice .
The results of my special work offer , however , an independent and * A. H. Church , " Researches on Turaein , an Animal Pigment containing Copper , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 183 ( 1892 ) , A , pp. 511\#151 ; 530 .
342 On the new Gas obtained from |_Mar .
19 , additional confirmation of his results .
I have found that when turacin is treated with strong sulphuric acid , the resulting turaco-porphyrin presents in the extreme-violet an intense absorption band , which in position and characters is identical with that of h sematoporphy rin , obtained by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid or pure hsematin hydrochloride .
In solutions of extreme dilution , this band occupies the space between h and H. If the solution be slightly more concentrated K is absorbed , and with increasing concentration of the solution the absorption of the ultra-violet extends more and more .
Dr. Archibald Garrod and Mr. Gowland Hopkins , who first brought under my notice Professor Church 's researches on turaco-porphyrin , have communicated to me the results of their own observations , which show that alkaline solutions of turaco-porphyrin exhibit , in respect to the absorption bands in the visible spectrum , slight differences from ha9matoporphyrin\#151 ; though the identity of the spectrum of acid solutions of the two bodies is complete .
The facts which I have placed on -record in this paper point , however , to the essential identity of turaco-porphyrin and hasmatoporphyrin , and when taken in connection with the identity of the ultra-violet spectrum of turacin , and of the acid haematin compounds , appear to me to establish that turacin contains the atomic group , which is the cause of the characteristic extreme violet and ultra-violet absorption exerted by haemoglobin , its compounds , and principal derivatives .
VIII .
" On the new Gas obtained from Uraninite .
( Seventh Note .
) Remarks on Messrs. Rung and Pasehen 's Diffusion Experiment .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1896 .
I pointed out in a previous communication* that , from evidence afforded by the behaviour of the lines under different conditions of the spark , the gas obtained from cleveite is in all probability compound .
Some time afterwards ( July 11 , 1895 ) Messrs. Rung and Paschen published !
the same conclusion , and , as a result of a diffusion experi-mentf described in their paper , they came to the conclusion that the gas giving the line D3 was heavier than the gas giving the line 5015 .
7 .
As they themselves , however , pointed out , the result was not final , because the pressures were not the same .
As it is important for stellar classification to settle this matter , I have recently made some experiments in which the pressures remain the same .
The experi* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 58 , p. 193 .
t 1 Sitz .
der K. Preus .
Akad .
der Wiss .
zu Berlin , ' vol. 34 , 1895 .
J 'Nature , ' vol. 52 , p. 321 .

