80 Dr. J , Stenhouse on Fucusol .
[ Dec. 21 , Theory .
I. II .
Mean .
C6 = 72= 14*25 . .
, , . .
H = 1= 020 , .
, , . .
Brg=400= 79-21 79-30 79-27 79-28 02 = 32= 6-34 505 100-00 . . .
* The analyses of those chlorine and bromine derivatives of resorcin that have just been described thoroughly establish the existence of the compounds C6 H Clg 02 and 06 H Brg 02 , which closely resemble in their properties the corresponding pentachlororcin , C7 H3 Cl5 02 , and pentabrom-orcin , C7 H3 Brg 02 , obtained from ordinary orcin .
The view of the constitution of the orcins put forth by Kekule , who regards them as dihydroxyl derivatives of the benzols , is scarcely in accordance with the method of formation and composition of these compounds , as in the case of the pentabromresorcin five hydrogen atoms in the resorcin are undoubtedly directly replaced by bromine , although one of them , according to Kekule 's view , exists as hydroxyl .
An attempt was made to prepare the resorcin body corresponding to that obtained from orcin by the action of calcium hypochlorite and hydrochloric acid , and which I have designated pentachlororcin hypochlorite , but without success .
The product was a very viscid oil , which showed no signs of solidification even after standing for some weeks , and from which I was unable to obtain any crystalline compound .
II .
" Note on Fucusol .
" By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , F.R.S. Deceived October 11 , 1871 .
In a paper which I communicated to the Royal Society of London in 1850 * , " On the Oils produced by the Action of Sulphuric Acid upon various Classes of Vegetables , " after describing the sources , method of preparation , and characteristic properties of furfurol and its educts , I described another isomeric substance closely resembling furfurol , both iu its physical and chemical properties , and which I named fucusol from the source whence it had been obtained , namely , Fucus nodosus , F. vesiculosus , F. serratus , \amp ; c. The nature of the substance which yielded furfurol was involved in considerable obscurity until the publication of Gudkow 's paper " On the Furfurol-yielding Substance in Bran " f , which he found to be present in it to the amount of from 15 to 20 per cent. , and which , when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , was converted into a brownish sweet svrup .
This is the substance from which furfurol is obtained by distillation with sulphuric acid or hydrochloric acid .
* Phil. Trans. 1850 , p. 467 .
t Zeits .
Chem. 1870 , p. 360 .
1871 .
] Dr. J. Stenhouse on Fucusol .
Fucusol .
I have found that when seaweeds were boiled with very dilute sulphuric acid , containing about 3 per cent , of acid , that a substance corresponding to that described by Gudkow was obtained , which , when distilled with sulphuric or hydrochloric acid , yielded fucusol .
In my paper of the year 1850 I have described the difference in the physical properties of furfurol and fucusol , and also the difference between the products obtained by the action of ammonia upon them and the bases derived from these .
I have again repeated the examination of these substances with great care , and find my former statements to be correct .
In addition to these , I have recently prepared the aniline compound analogous to fur-furaniline * .
Fucusaniline hydrochlorate crystallizes in needles of a magnificent purple colour , and closely resembles the corresponding furfurol compound .
As is well known f , when furfurol is boiled with water and silver oxide , metallic silver is deposited and silver pyromucate formed , the latter remaining in solution .
In a similar manner I found that when fucusol was digested at 100 ' C. for five or six hours with an excess of recently precipitated silver oxide and a considerable quantity of water , its odour gradually disappeared , and at the completion of the reaction a silver-salt was found in solution , whilst metallic silver was deposited , partly in a granular state and partly as a mirror , on the bottom of the flask .
Sufficient hydrochloric acid was then added to the hot filtered solution to precipitate the silver .
After the removal of the argentic chloride it was carefully evaporated at a temperature below 100 ' and the brown semi-crystalline mass thus obtained boiled with light petroleum-oil , which dissolved the acid and left the colouring-matter .
One or two crystallizations from boiling water rendered it quite pure .
Analysis .
*188 grm. substance gave '370 grm. carbonic anhydride and '080 grm. water .
From this analysis , it will be seen that this acid , which I propose to call ft pyromucic acid , is isomeric with ordinary pyromucic acid , from which , however , it slightly differs in its physical properties .
The melting-point of pure ft pyromucic acid is 130 ' , being nearly the same as that of the acid obtained from furfurol , which I found to be 133 ' , and which * Proc. Boy .
Soc. vol. xviii .
p. 537 .
t Ann. Cbem .
Pharm. vol. cxvi .
p. 259 .
VOL. XX .
' H Theory .
53*56 3-57 42-87 Found .
53'68 4*25 82 Messrs. Warren De La Rue , Stewart , Loewy [ Dec. 21 , Schwanert* gives as 134'*3 .
The / 3 pyromucic acid from fucusol crystallizes from its aqueous solution in small rhomboidal plates , whilst the acid which 1 had prepared from furfurol crystallized in flat needles .
Silver / 3 pyromucate.\#151 ; This compound was prepared from the pure / 3 acid by boiling it for a short time with silver oxide and a sufficient quantity of water , filtering , and setting aside to crystallize .
A single recrystallization from boiling water , in which it is only moderately soluble , rendered it quite pure .
On cooling the hot aqueous solution , the silver / 3 pyromucate is obtained in long flat needles , whilst the corresponding salt of the ordinary acid forms small crystalline scales : *505 grm. of silver-salt gave *330 grm. argentic chloride , which corresponds to 49*18 per cent , of metallic silver ; the formula Cs H3 Ag03 requires 49*32 per cent. From this silver determination it will be seen that this compound is isomeric with the ordinary silver a pyromucate , C5 H3 AgOs .
III .
( t On some recent Researches in Solar Physics , and a Law regulating the time of duration of the Sun-spot Period .
" By Warren De La Rue , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Balfour Stewart , P.R.S. , and Benjamin Loewy , F.R.A.S. Received October 12 , 1871 .
1 .
In the short account of some recent investigations by Professor Wolf and M. Fritz on sun-spot phenomena , which has been published lately in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society* ( 1871 , vol. xix .
p. 392 ) , it was pointed out that some of Wolf 's conclusions were not quite borne out by the results which we have given in our last paper on Solar Physics in the Philosophical Transactions for 1870 , pp. 389-496 .
A closer inquiry into the cause of this discrepancy has led us to what appears a definite law , connecting numerically the two branches of the periodic sun-spot curve , viz. the time during which there is a regular diminution of spot-production , and the time during which there is a constant increase .
It will be well , for the sake of clearness , to allude here again , as briefly as possible , to Professor Wolf 's results before stating those at which we have arrived .
2 .
Professor Wolf had previously devoted the greater part of his laborious researches to a precise determination of the mean length of the whole sunspot period , but latterly he has justly recognized the importance of obtaining some knowledge of the average character of the periodic increase and decrease .
Hence he has , as far as he has been able to do so by existing series of observations , and his peculiar and ingenious method of rendering observations made at different times and by different observers comparable with each other , endeavoured to investigate more closely the nature of the periodic sun-spot curve by tabulating and graphically representing the monthly means taken during two and a half years before and after the Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxvi .
p. 257 .

