1873 .
] On the Union of Ammonia Nitrate with Ammonia .
109 III .
u On the Union of Ammonia Nitrate with Ammonia .
" By Edward Divers , M.D. Communicated by Professor Odling , M.B. , F.B.S. Received October 29 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) Ammonia nitrate deliquesces in ammonia gas at ordinary temperatures and pressures , forming a solution of the salt in liquefied ammonia .
To prepare the product , it is only requisite to pass dry ammonia gas into a flask containing the dry nitrate ; but the condensation proceeds more rapidly if the flask is surrounded with ice .
The liquid obtained varies in composition according to the temperature and pressure .
At a temperature of 23 ' and the pressure of the atmosphere , it consists of about four parts of nitrate to one of ammonia by weight ; but under greater pressure , or at lower temperatures , much more ammonia can be condensed by the nitrate .
At 0 ' and the pressure of the atmosphere , two parts of nitrate can condense one part of ammonia .
Like an aqueous solution , the liquid boils when heated , and , when nearly saturated with the nitrate , deposits crystals of it when cooled .
It can also , like an aqueous solution , be heated above its boiling-point without boiling , and become supersaturated with the salt without crystallizing .
When poured out into an open vessel , it becomes almost instantly gelatinous in appearance\#151 ; may , indeed , become so as it falls in a stream from the flask containing it .
This effect is due to evaporation of ammonia and solidification of nitrate at the surface of the liquid : on breaking the crust of nitrate , the compound flowrs out as liquid as ever .
It is not caustic to the dry skin .
During its decomposition cold is manifested , and during its formation heat is evolved , but not to a great extent , because the heat given out by the liquefaction of the ammonia is nearly all used up in the liquefaction of the nitrate .
The specific gravity of the liquid varies , of course , with its composition .
When it consists of two of nitrate to one of ammonia , it has a specific gravity of 1072-5 ; when it consists of four of nitrate to one of ammonia , it has a specific gravity of nearly 1200 .
Its specific gravity can be calculated from its composition , by taking for the purpose 1524-5 as the specific gravity of the nitrate , and 671 as that of the ammonia .
The number 1524-5 is much less than that expressing the actual density of the nitrate in the solid state , but it does not differ very much fi om its apparent specific gravity in aqueous solution .
In its rate of expansion by heat , the liquid resembles others that exist as such at ordinary temperatures , rather than those that , like ammonia itself , are only retained as such by great pressure .
Its expansivity increases with the quantity of ammonia present .
The volume of a mixture of the liquid with water is much less than the sum of the volumes of the liquid and the water , and yet a marked 110 On the Union of Ammonia Nitrate with Ammonia .
[ Jan. 9 , absorption of heat occurs during the admixture .
The same thing happens when a concentrated aqueous solution of the nitrate is poured into water , as was first pointed out by Gay-Lussac .
Other examples of this remarkable phenomenon have been observed by different chemists , and have received various explanations .
E. Mohr considers that heat is used up in the depression of the freezing-point of the water which the salt produces .
As this depression of the freezing-point is probably attended by an increase in the latent heat of the water , his explanation appears to be the correct one .
Thomsen finds the specific heat of the mixture to be less than the mean of the specific heats of its components .
Its action upon a great number of substances , principally inorganic , has been tried , and found to be for the most part like the actions of dry ammonia and ammonia nitrate conjoined .
The nitrate appears to undergo double decomposition with most salts , and the ammonia to unite with nearly all , including the salt of magnesium , aluminium , iron , and manganese .
The ammoniated chromium salts possess considerable stability .
The ammoniated mercuric iodide is resolved by washing into ammonia and mercuric iodide again .
The ammoniated compounds which do not dissolve in the liquid are very bulky , as observed by Gore in his experiments upon ammonia liquefied by pressure .
Nitrates , chlorides , iodides , and bromides are either soluble , as Gore has found them to be , in ammonia alone , or else are decomposed into soluble chlorides \amp ; c. of ammonium , and insoluble ammoniated compounds of the metals .
Sulphates , oxalates , chromates , and arsenites are insoluble , and phosphates are nearly so .
Phosphoric and chromic anhydrides do not act upon the liquid with the energy that might be expected , but combine with the ammonia .
Iodine dissolves freely , as it ( oes in ammonia alone ( Gore ) .
Bromine generates nitrogen .
Lead \lt ; \#171 ; alts , including sulphate , chloride , iodide , and oxide , are freely soluble as ammoniated compounds .
Platinous chloride dissolves freely as tetra-ammonio-platinous chloride .
Potassium salts are very sparingly soluble .
Alkalis and their carbonates decompose the nitrate ; so do litharge , lime , and baryta .
Calomel is converted into metallic mercury and a soluble ammoniated mercuric compound .
Potassium , sodium , zinc , and cadmium dissolve without liberating gas , by reducing the nitrate to nitrite , potassium inflaming .
Magnesium slowly dissolves , liberating a little hydrogen , reducing the nitrate , and becoming partly converted into Beetz 's black suboxide of magnesium .
Methyl iodide is decomposed ; butyric ether and chloroform are sparingly soluble without decomposition .
Ether is insoluble , but by its contact causes the liquid to break up into its two constituents .
It is a good electrolyte , ammonia and hydrogen appearing at the negative electrode , and nitrogen and ammonia nitrate at the positive electrode .
Its decomposition may be thus represented:\#151 ; 1873 .
] On a new Formula fo a Microscope Object-ylass .
11 ] ._A_ H , and 3jNH " + _\gt ; v_ N and 3N03HNH^( : :3N03+4NH3 ) .
Positive electrodes of silver , lead , copper , zinc , and magnesium are dissolved by the liquid as ( ammoniated ) nitrates .
A positive electrode of mercury is converted into a compound almost insoluble in the liquid .
When the electrode is acted upon , the generation of nitrogen does not take place .
January 16 , 1873 .
T. ARCHER HIRST , Ph. D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , Mr. Spottiswoode proposed and Admiral Richards seconded the Right Hon. Hugh Culling Eardley Childers , Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , for election and immediate ballot .
The ballot having been taken , Mr. Childers was declared duly elected .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " A new Formula for a Microscope Object-glassBy F. H. Wenham .
Communicated by W. B. Carpenter , M.D. , F.R.S. Received October 31 , 1872 .
A pencil of rays exceeding an angle of 40 ' from a luminous point cannot be secured with less than three superposed lenses of increasing focus and diameter , by the use of which combination rays beyond this angle are transmitted , with successive refractions in their course , towards the posterior conjugate focus : until quite recently , each of these separate lenses has been partly achromatized by its own concave lens of flint glass , the surfaces in contact with the crown glass being of the same radius , united with Canada balsam ; the front lens has been made a triple , the middle a double , and the back again a triple achromatic .
This combination therefore consists of eight lenses , and the rays in their passage are subject to errors arising from sixteen surfaces of glass .
In the new form there are but ten surfaces , and only one concave lens of dense flint is employed for correcting four convex lenses of crown glass : as this might at first sight be considered inconsistent with theory , a brief retrospect of the early improvements of the microscope object-glass will help to define the conditions .
The knowledge of its construction has been entirely in the hands of working opticians ; and the information published on the subject being scanty , this has probably prevented the scientific analyst from giving that aid which might have been expected .
Previous to the year 1829 a few microscopic object-glasses were made , composed of three superposed achromatic lenses ; but this combination

