]\gt ; On the Jnteration of .
283 It been coucluded evidence that the supral'enal bodies of Teleostean fishes consist solely of cortex .
* The ically active is , as in corbical substan ce , and it would be interesting to determine the presence or absence of the chromogen .
Unfortunately we have been so far to obtain stlfficient material for chemical examination .
The same remarks apply to the suprarenal bodies of the Ganoids .
{ the purpose of comparison , } ) hemically tcsted ftct m the suprarenal gands of the frog .
Six goodsized killed and the snipped off from the wibh scissol .
S. Although there was a of kidncy substance with the thus obtained , the weight in a moist state only amounted to gram .
This was treated in the described ave for the Elasmobranch terial , and bve the eactionls in perfcctly definite nncr .
' the tiou of quations of Second Order in Three Independcnt bless , an Integral does not exist in general P ) A. R. SYTlI , rian Professor in the of eived November tract .
Tl nl of of the methods of ration of any is ucbion of an appropriate lqyste]n and the blishment of the propeltions ecn of this systcm and the solution of the original , which in this sense be called complete , are pohhessed differential equations of the first in one iable and any number of independent variables ; for of equations of the in two independent a number of dopcndent variable } ; ; and for equations of orders iu one dependcnt and two independent .
Tho ] ) memoir discusses the of partial diftions of the sccond order in one depenaent and three ; and the method adopted is seen , ibhout bc to equations which involve more than tbrce indc.pcndcnt variables and hich can be of higher than the .
The reason why cquations of the type considered arc do not possess an is , *Vincent , On the of Partial Differential Equations .
equation of lower order in virtne of which the original equation is satisfied , is that the other tions , which do possess an intermediary integral , are a class apart and have been considered elsewhere .
* In order to solve a given equation , a system of subsidiary equations is constructed ; and the system is made up of twoparts .
One of these parts is a set of simultaneous partial differential equations in two independent variables and a number of dependent variables , this number being one more than the number of the equations .
An integral equivalent of this parb accordingly contains an undetermined quantity .
The other of the parts is a set of equations in a single independent variable ; it appears that the set of equations in the second part can be consistently satisfied by a determination of the unknown quantity emerging from the first part .
In particular , the equations represented by where are the independent variables , is the dependent val'iable , are its first derivatives , and its sccond tives , are found to into two dis \fnof ; gCinct classes accordin as the equation I is resolvable or is not resolvable into two equaiions linear in this equation , called the characteristic invariant on account of an invariantive property which it is proved to possess , is resolvable into two ]inear equations , the process of ration of the subsidiary equations is much simplified .
The first of the three sections , inbo which the paper is divided , deals with the general theory , and indicates a method whereby subsidiary equations for an equation of any degree in the of the second order can be constructed .
If integrable combinations of the subsidial'y system are not obtainable , an extension of the method shows how lations of higher order ( when can be deduced and associated with the equation The second of the three sections deals with of which the characteristic invariant is resolvable ; some examplcs are given , alike of equations ' which the ation of the initial subsidial.y system is possible , and of equations for which the tended mebhod must be used .
The third of the ee sections deals wibh those equations of which the ristic i is esolvable .
Of such the ( il .
Trars vo ] .
1 ) .
On the Biology Stereum hirsutum , most iutel.esting examples ( from the point of view of application to mathematical physics ) are the equations or , with the notation of the memoir , ; and the is pplied to equations in detai ] .
Solutions , which belicved to be new , are obtained for both of them ; solution two } ) licit arbitrary functional forms , and the al.gument of each of these functions itseIf involves an nlent ; but in case the solution is not that of the videsb possible lity w the equatiou is knowrl to possess .
To quofe result : a solution of the equation can be stated follows:\mdash ; Let devote three functions of subjcct solely to hc C0Ylditio ] ] ; let ?
ncd as } tion of by means of the equation , denote fi1ltl lf functions : then tisfies the ' ' Stereum , Fr By H. IARSHALL ot in of lb , 18 ( Abstract .
) uthor cultivated the mycclium of this ined ores , on stcrilised wood , it after months the cultures dovclol ) ( !
yellow bosses which proved to be the hymet ) orcs b the , fungns has not hitherto been to produce

