[ 577 ] XIII .
Researches on the Minute Structure of the Thyroid Gland .
By E. Cresswell Baber , Bond .
Communicated by E. Klein , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1880 , \#151 ; Read January 6 , 1881 .
[ Plates 68-69 .
] Contents .
Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Bibliography ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Macroscopic appearances ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Methods employed ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, ... ... . .
Microscopic appearances ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
I. Vesicles ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
II .
Epithelium , reticulum , and basement membrane III .
Contents of vesicles ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
IV .
Parenchyma ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... V. Lymphatics and their contents ... ... ... ... .
VI .
Blood-vessels ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... VII .
Undeveloped portions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
General conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Explanation of the plates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Page 5 77 578 578 580 582 582 585 589 INTRODUCTION .
The following research is a continuation of that previously communicated to the Society on the " Minute Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland of the Dog/ ' and published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1876 ( Vol. 166 , Part II .
) .
It is based on a histological examination of the thyroid gland in the following vertebrate animals :\#151 ; I. Mammalia .
Dog , Cat , Horse , Babbit , Ox , Sheep , Seal .
II .
Aves .
Pigeon , Fowl , Book .
III .
Reptilia .
Tortoise .
IV .
Amphibia .
Frog .
V. Pisces .
Skate , Conger Eel .
( Altogether the glands of more than sixty animals have been examined in this research .
) My examination of the human thyroid gland is unfortunately not sufficiently commdccclxxxi .
4 F plete to allow of its being included in this communication , partly owing to its great delicacy of structure , and partly to the difficulty of obtaining this gland perfectly fresh , a condition which is absolutely necessary in order to examine its minute anatomy .
I shall therefore merely refer to this gland incidentally on one or two points in the course of the paper .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
The following are the chief publications to which it will be necessary to refer in the present communication :\#151 ; Leydig : ' Lehrbuch der Histologic .
' 1857 .
Henle : 'Handbuch der Systematischen Anatomy des Menschen , ' vol. ii .
1866 .
Kolliker : ' Handbuch der Gewebelehre .
' 5th edition , 1867 .
Peremeschko : " Ein Beitrag zum Bau der Schilddriise .
" Zeitschrift fur Wissen-schaftliche Zoologie , xvii .
1867 .
Bolleston : 'Forms of Animal Life .
' 1870 .
Virchow : ' Path ologie des Tumeurs .
' French translation .
Lect. 22 , vol. iii .
1871 .
W. Muller : Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Medizin und Naturwissenschaft , vi .
1871 .
Verson : Article " Thyroid Gland , " in Stricker 's ' Human and Comparative Histology .
' Sydenham Society 's translation , by H. Power , vol. i. 1871 .
P. A. Boechat : ' Becherches sir la Structure Normale du Corps Thyroi'de .
' Th\amp ; se .
Paris , 1873 .
Frey : ' Histology and Histo-Chemistry .
' 4th edition , translated by Barker .
1874 .
Baber : " Contributions to the Minute Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland of the Hog .
" Philosophical Transactions of the Boyal Society , Vol. 166 , Part II .
1876 .
O. Zeiss : ' Mikroskopische Untersuchungen liber den Bau der Schilddriise .
' Inaugural Dissertation .
Strassburg , 1877 .
Huxley and Martin : 'Practical Biology .
' 4th edition , 1877 .
Klein : " Observations on the Structure of Cells and Nuclei .
" Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , vol. xviii .
, new series .
1878 .
MACROSCOPIC APPEARANCES .
Before entering on the histology of the gland , it may be well to mention the following points in regard to its macroscopic anatomy which have been noted in this research ( compare Simon , " On the Comparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland , Phil. Trans. , 1844 ; and Owen , 'Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrata , vol. i. , 1866):\#151 ; Mammalia.\#151 ; In some of these ( such as the Dog , Sheep , \amp ; c. ) the gland consists of two distinct halves , situate one on either side of the windpipe .
In other instances the two lateral halves are united across the median line .
For example , on injecting one lobe of the thyroid of a Babbit ( 11 weeks old ) by the method of puncture , what MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
appeared to be a broad band of small lymphatics became injected , running across the trachea to the lower part of the opposite lobe .
Sections of this connecting band , examined microscopically , showed that it contained a considerable quantity of gland-tissue , and was therefore a true isthmus .
In the Kitten , on injecting one gland by the puncture method with Berlin blue solution , what was apparently a large lymphatic vessel became filled , running across the trachea to the lower part of the opposite gland .
This probably also formed a delicate isthmus of gland-tissue , connecting the two lobes .
Aves.\#151 ; In the Birds examined ( Fowl , Book , Pigeon ) the thyroid gland was composed of two small round or elongated bodies , situate in the upper part of the thorax , and in close connection with the jugular vein and carotid artery on either side .
Reptilia.\#151 ; In the Tortoise the gland is single , and forms a yellowish , rounded , somewhat flattened organ , situate just above the base of the heart , between the right and left aorta .
Amphibia.\#151 ; Frog .
The following extracts will show that observers are by no means unanimous in regard to the position and character of the thyroid gland in this animal .
Leydig { op .
cit. , p. 376 ) says that the thyroid gland of tail-less Batrachians ( Frogs and Toads ) usually consists of only three large vesicles , provided with a fine capillary network and isolated from one another , whose contents are neither clear fluid nor colloid , but a finely granular and partly fatty substance .
Bolleston { op .
cit. , pp. 184 , 185 ) describes and figures the thyroid glands as placed just internally to the jugular veins .
Huxley and Martin { op .
cit. , p. 181 ) , on the contrary , state that " the thyroid gland appears to be represented by two or more oval bodies , which are found attached to the lingual vessels , and between the aortic and pulmo-cutaneous trunks .
" W. Muller { op .
cit. , p. 438 ) found that in young Frogs the thyroid lay on the two sides of the body of the hyoid bone , close in front of the point of attachment of the cornua thyreoidea .
It was surrounded on all sides by muscles , and possessed a thin connective-tissue capsule , from which the vessels with their connective-tissue adventitia stretched into the interior .
The gland substance consisted entirely of closed vesicles , with a delicate membrana propria and a single layer of cubical epithelium without pigment , and a central cavity containing a transparent colourless fluid , without any structural elements .
For some time I was unable to find in the Frog any body corresponding histologically to the thyroid gland , but subsequently , by following W. Muller 's directions as just quoted , I discovered it in transverse sections of the head .
My observations show that in the Frog there are two bodies presenting the structure of the thyroid gland .
They are situate , one on either side , on the ventral surface of the hyoid cartilage ( or bone ) , being usually , but not always , in direct contact with this structure .
They are found either between the hyoid cartilage and the liyoglossus muscles , or else immediately to the outer side of these muscles , on a level just anterior to the 4 e 2 point of their convergence .
In quite small Frogs the thyroid gland appears in transverse sections as a somewhat flattened body , lying on the ventral surface of the hyoid cartilage , partly between it and the hyoglossus muscle .
In rather larger Frogs it presents in transverse section a somewhat triangular outline ( see Plate 68 , fig. 1 , i , i ) ?
the base being applied to the ventral surface of the cartilage ( Plate 68 , fig. 1 , i ) and the apex projecting forwards by the side of the hyoglossus muscle .
In still larger Frogs transverse sections show that the gland often extends forwards , but its development on the two sides appears to be irregular and unsymmetrical .
In Frogs of full size it may , however , still be found flattened and extending very slightly forwards .
I may here mention that the structure of this gland resembles that of the thyroids of other animals .
It consists of numerous vesicles separated by a stroma of connective tissue , the whole being surrounded by a capsule of similar character .
The vesicles are lined by a single layer of cubical or slightly columnar epithelial cells , which are devoid of dark pigment .
It will be seen that the results of these observations on the Frog agree on the whole with those of W. Muller .
Pisces.\#151 ; In the Skate , as far as I have seen , the gland is single ( with the exception of a few detached vesicles ) and forms a yellow flattened , lobulated body , occupying the median line at the bifurcation of the branchial artery .
* Anteriorly it sometimes presents a narrow process of gland-tissue running forwards , and behind it is limited by the bifurcation of the branchial artery .
The vesicles of the gland , of various sizes , are distinctly visible to the naked eye .
In the Conger Eel the gland occupies a similar position and forms a reddish flattened body .
METHODS EMPLOYED .
Methods of Injection .
I. The gland of a freshly-killed animal was injected situ with a solution of Berlin blue by the method of puncture .
The gland being hardened first in a mixture of equal parts of methylated spirit and water , and afterwards in methylated spirit , and sections mounted in dammar or balsam in the usual way .
II .
The fresh gland was injected in a similar manner with ^ per cent , solution of nitrate of silver in water and hardened as before .
III .
The fresh gland was injected in situ by the method of puncture with -S- per cent , solution of osmic acid in water .
The gland being removed was cut up into small pieces , and these placed in solutions of the same acid ranging in strength from to 1 per cent , for periods ranging from 1 to 24 hours .
The gland being subsequently placed in alcohol and sections mounted in glycerine or in dammar .
* Handeield Jones ( quoted by Owen , loc. cit. ' ) bas observed in the Skate a second body of similar structure situated some distance behind this .
I have not observed this second gland , but cannot deny its existence .
MR. .
E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THTROID GLAND .
581 IV .
In the Tortoise a double injection of the gland was made by filling the bloodvessels from the aorta with Gerlach 's carmine mass , and after about 20 minutes injecting the lymphatics of the gland in situ by the method of puncture with Berlin -blue solution\#151 ; the latter , however , did not run very well .
In several animals also the blood-vessels only were injected with a solution of Berlin blue .
Methods of Hardening .
The method employed in by far the larger number of cases was that of placing portions of the fresh gland ( injected or uninjected ) into a mixture of equal parts of methylated spirit and water for a period varying from a few days to a couple of weeks ( or longer ) , and afterwards into pure methylated spirit until sufficiently hard for-cutting , the hardening being sometimes completed by immersion in absolute alcohol , although this is not necessary .
Sections of the hardened gland were then stained with hsematoxylin or picrocarminate of ammonia and mounted in dammar or balsam .
The following methods were serviceable for showing special points in the structure of the gland ( which will be referred to subsequently ) .
I. Thyroid of Sheep or Tortoise hardened in a | to 1 per cent , solution of chromic acid for 17 to 25 hours and subsequently in alcohol , for showing the intercellular reticulum , II .
Thyroid of Tortoise hardened in Muller 's fluid for four days , stained with hsematoxylin and mounted in glycerine , for showing the layer of connective tissue on the epithelial wall .
The following methods gave specimens which were either inferior , showing nothing fresh , or else were entirely useless :\#151 ; ( a ) Immersion in a saturated solution of picric acid for 18 hours , afterwards in a strong solution of gum for 18 hours , and , finally , in methylated spirit .
This method was only tried in the Ox , in which animal , it is only fair to state , the results obtained by other methods were very disappointing .
( b ) Solution of monochromate of ammonia ( 2^ and 5 per cent. ) , subsequent hardening in spirit , ( c ) Immersion for two days in a mixture of two parts of chromic-acid solution ( -^ per cent. ) , and one part of methylated spirit , afterwards in alcohol .
The three methods recommended by Klein ( loc. cit. ) for showing intra-nuclear and intracellular reticulum were tried with the results mentioned below .
The general histology of the gland is certainly best shown in specimens hardened in alcohol only , although the facility with which the minute structure of this organ can be examined varies greatly in different animals , and also probably at different times in the same animal ( vide infra , p. 586 ) .
Boechat ( op .
cit. , p. 13 ) also found hardening in alcohol the most successful method .
The thyroid gland of no animal , as far as my experience goes , surpasses that of the Dog in the facility it presents for microscopic examination .
MICROSCOPIC APPEARANCES .
Speaking generally , the only points in regard to the histology of the thyroid gland , on which recent authors appear to be unanimous , are , that it consists of " cavities'- ' lined by a single layer of epithelium and held together by a more or less dense stroma of connective tissue .
Further , that numerous blood-vessels and lymphatics , also nerves , are found in the stroma , and that the whole organ is surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue , which is continuous with the stroma in its interior .
On other points , such as the shape of these " cavities " ( vesicles ) , the character of their epithelium , the nature of the contents of the vesicles , \amp ; c. , the opinions of authors are at variance .
In considering these subjects in order , it will be convenient to discuss them under the following heads .
I. Vesicles .
Literature.\#151 ; The majority of observers ( e.g. , Henle , Kolliker , Verson , Frey , and Leydig ) have described the vesicles of the thyroid gland as consisting of closed globular bodies , not communicating with one another .
Virchow , and more recently Boechat and Zeiss , however , believe that this is not the case , but that the supposed closed globular bodies form a system of branched cavities in the gland .
Virchow cit. , p. 201 ) finds that the apparently vesicular bodies are in multiple connection with one another .
Boechat ( op .
cit. , p. 43 ) considers that all the cavities of the thyroid gland communicate with one another .
Zeiss ( op .
cit. , p. 14 ) does not go to this length , but maintains that in the thyroid gland of young Children , of the Calf , of young Dogs and Sheep , a not insignificant part of the parenchyma is made up of branched cavities ( branched tubes ) ; but whether these all communicate with one another , and whether completely closed vesicles also occur , he leaves undecided .
Both Boechat and Zeiss endeavoured to prove the existence of these branched cavities by injections by the method of puncture , but without success .
Their failure they attribute to the injecting fluid entering the large spaces of the lymphatics or blood-vessels in preference to the branched cavities , which , as Zeiss points out , are filled partly with an easily coagulable , albuminous fluid and partly with the viscid colloid material .
Although this observer has traced the epithelial layer running from one vesicle to another , he has never observed tubes passing from one lobule of the gland to another .
Zeiss demonstrated these tubes by floating them out in a solution of common salt from small portions of the fresh gland of young animals , also after maceration in iodised serum or in dilute Muller 's fluid .
Circular , oval , conical , or pyramidal cavities were thus obtained together with long tubes , sometimes extending " right across the field of the microscope , having a narrow , wide , or irregular lumen , which divide and branch , and are provided at intervals with lateral protuberances or constrictions .
" He considers that the tubes , so plainly seen by isolation or maceration , are rendered invisible in sections by the circumstance that they interlace so freely in all directions that in a section they must MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
always be cut across .
W. Muller ( loc. cit. ) , who appears to agree with the majority of observers in considering that in the fully developed state the vesicles are closed globular bodies , describes an earlier stage ( in the development of the gland ) in which , before the formation of vesicles the gland consists of a network of cylindrical tubes , at first irregular , but afterwards becoming more regular in character .
They are composed of a very fine envelope of connective tissue , and are filled in the interior with short cylindrical epithelial cells , placed radially on the envelope .
The tubes are separated by processes of the mesoblast , which have grown inwards from the connective tissue surrounding the gland .
The tubes are at first solid , but are subsequently provided with a central lumen .
After the lumen in the interior of the tubes has become more marked , the separation of different segments of the tubes takes place by the growth into them laterally of processes of the mesoblast , which results in the formation of gland-vesicles .
The same observer finds that in the human thyroid the shape of the vesicles varies much from the fifth month of embryonic life to the age of three years .
From this period to puberty the changes occurring are , he considers , that the number of glandular deposits continues to diminish and the follicles increase in size , by the accumulation of secretion , which shows a great tendency to become thickened , and they approach the spherical shape .
Peremeschko cit. , p. 283 ) found the vesicles in young embryos regularly round ; in mature embryos mostly of irregularly polygonal form ; in young animals very seldom of regular round form , and still more rarely so in adult animals .
In the latter the vesicles have , he says , the most different forms ; they are almost always polygonally round or poly-gonally oval .
Observations .
My own observations on this subject may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; Dog.\#151 ; In the gland of young Dogs ( aged five weeks and three months respectively ' " ' ) I have observed that the gland-vesicles are very much branched and present numerous hollow ramifications ( see Plate 68 , figs. 2 and 3 ) .
In order to see these well in sections of hardened glands it is necessary that the sections should be thick , and then by careful focussing , the vesicles with their usual contents can be traced ramifying both upwards and downwards , and laterally in all directions .
In the glands of numerous other Dogs of different ages I have ascertained with equal certainty that the vesicles present very few , if any , ramifications .
When the vesicles present these branches , the intervals between them form the inflexions projecting into the interior of the vesicles , which have been already described by Verson ( op .
cit. , p. 371 ) and myself ( op .
cit. , p. 560 ) .
I have examined fresh portions of the glands of young Sheep in salt solution and in Muller 's fluid ( according to the method recommended by Zeiss for floating out the tubes ) , but have obtained no appearances that might not be produced by the much-branched vesicles just described in the thyroid glands of young Dogs .
In fact , there can be no doubt that these are the same structures as those which Zeiss * The ages of most of the Dogs mentioned in this paper were only approximately ascertained .
obtained by flotation .
Our observations also agree , inasmuch as Zeiss observed these tubes in the glands of young animals : at least he makes no statement to the effect that they have been found in the glands of adult animals .
From the fact of then-complete , or almost entire , absence in the glands of adult Dogs , I regard these much-branched vesicles merely as forming a stage in the growth of the organ , and consider that in its fully developed state the gland-vesicles form cavities more or less spherical in shape , which are very rarely , if at all , branched , or , in other words , in communication with one another .
The presence of branched , vesicles in a gland probably indicates that the number of vesicles is being increased by the growth into the vesicles already present of involutions of their walls , together with processes of the inter-vesicular tissue .
Peremeschko ( loc. cit. ) figures this division of the gland vesicles both in the embryo and adult Rabbit .
He considers it probable that the division of vesicles takes place after intra-uterine life .
W. Muller is also of opinion , from an examination of the gland at different ages in Man , that completely-formed follicles ( vesicles ) undergo segmentation by the growth into them of processes of the mesoblast .
I shall have occasion to refer to W. Muller 's observations on the early stage in the development of the gland in speaking of the " undeveloped portions .
" The above conclusions refer to the thyroid gland of the Dog , as it is in this animal that I have chiefly studied the shape of the vesicles .
In the thyroid gland of Birds ( Rook , Fowl , Pigeon ) , as far as I have seen , the vesicles are , as a rule , small and very rarely branched .
In the last-named bird ( Pigeon ) the larger vesicles are usually found near the surface of the gland .
In the Tortoise the vesicles are sometimes , but not usually , branched .
In the thyroid gland of full-sized Frogs the vesicles are usually large .
In smaller Frogs their size is generally less .
They are occasionally branched .
The gland-vesicles of the Conger Eel are often of large size and more or less branched .
In the Skate the vesicles are also often large , and branched ones are sometimes seen .
In all these animals the exact age was unascertained .
Whilst , therefore , branched vesicles may occur in the thyroid gland of adult animals , they do not , as far as I have seen , communicate with one another to any extent a conclusion which , it appears to me , is strongly corroborated by the fact that in the course of a large number of interstitial injections in the glands of different animals I have never succeeded in injecting any system of branched tubes .
I cannot think with Zeiss that the viscid contents of the vesicles would have the effect of preventing the injecting fluid from entering them , when we know that the viscid contents of the lymphatics has no such effect .
The exact shape of the vesicles is of course of minor importance .
My chief object in drawing attention to this point has been to show that in the adult state the vesicles form closed cavities , and do not consist of a system of tubes traversing the substance of the gland as Boechat suggests .
MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
In this connection it may be well to mention the following appearance which I have observed in the thyroid gland of several Conger Eels :\#151 ; In the walls of the vesicles , which in this animal are often of considerable size in proportion to the whole organ , small vesicles are seen , as shown in Plate 68 , fig. 4 .
These secondary vesicles ( Plate 68 , fig. 4 , 3 , 3 ) are provided with an epithelial wall , and with contents similar to the primary vesicles .
From the fact that by their growth they have evidently flattened out to a greater or less degree the epithelium separating them from the cavity of the primary vesicle , it is probable that the two layers of epithelium separating the cavity of the small , from that of the large vesicle sometimes give way , allowing the contents of the two vesicles to mix .
At the same time others of these small vesicles probably grow outwards becoming independent structures ( Plate 68 , fig. 4 , 5 , 5 ) .
It is possible that some of these small vesicles may be curved branches of a large one which are cut across in the section .
II .
Epithelium , Reticulum , and Basement Membrane .
The wall of the vesicle is composed of a layer of epithelial cells , and also , according to some observers , of a basement membrane and reticulum .
Results of previous observations .
Epithelium.\#151 ; Recent observers are not yet in accord in regard to the shape of the epithelial cells .
Verson ( loc.cit .
) describes the epithelial cells as higher than broad .
Boechat , on the contrary ( op .
cit. , p. 20 ) , considers that in the normal state their breadth exceeds their height .
Peremeschko ( op .
cit. , p. 281 ) is of opinion that in all animals , without exception , they are cylindrical , but where the vesicles are enlarged , as in old animals , the epithelial cells present the most bizarre forms , which without doubt results from the mechanical pressure .
" Zeiss ( op .
cit. , p. 20 ) finds their shape in the Sheep and Calf highly cylindrical ; in Man and in the Pat , shortly cylindrical ; in the Cat , Dog , and Pabbit , cubical .
He insists that the normal shape of these cells is not flattened but cylindrical .
He also states that he has never found cubical and cylindrical cells in immediate proximity , but has not uncommonly seen vesicles with cylindrical cells next to those containing a cubical epithelium .
Processes attached to the base of the epithelial cell have been observed by Peremeschko and Zeiss .
Peremeschko noticed that the surface of the cell turned towards the cavity of the vesicle ( summit of the cell ) has a bright margin .
Zeiss confirms this observation ( on fresh cells examined in saline solution ) , and describes the bright margin as a cuticula .
Reticulum.\#151 ; Zeiss ( op .
cit. , p. 23 ) has observed between the epithelial cells a fine reticulum , similar to that described by Von Ebner and Schwalbe in other glands provided with a cylindrical , epithelium .
He describes it as a network of delicate rods on the two surfaces of the epithelium with fine processes , or lamellae , extending between the epithelial cells .
In osmic and chromic acid preparations it presents mdccclxxxi .
4 G branched stellate figures , occasionally provided with nuclei having an indistinct contour .
The reticulum extends on both aspects slightly beyond the level of the epithelium .
He also describes in a profile view narrow rod-like structures between the cubical or columnar epithelial cells , resembling the club-shaped cells ( " Keulenzellen " ) described by Schwalbe in Brunner 's glands of the Dog .
Basement membrane.\#151 ; Kolliker , Henle , and Verson have described a very fine homogeneous membrane ( membranapropria ) lying outside the epithelial cells .
W. Muller also found a thin membrana propria in the vesicles of Man , Fowl , and Pig .
Frey has been unable to see this membrane .
Peremeschko ( cit. , p. 281 ) , although he denies having seen a membrana propria , concludes that the cavities of the vesicles are formed by the epithelial cells , which are situated directly on the surrounding connective tissue , which forms a homogeneous , membranous limiting layer ( " Grenzschicht " ) .
Boechat also denies its existence , and considers that the epithelial cells are in direct contact with the endothelium of the lymphatics at a great number of points .
The two walls ( the endothelium and epithelium ) are , he considers , separated at certain points by the bands of connective tissue which form the framework of the gland , and by capillary blood-vessels which ramify between them ( p. 39 ) .
Zeiss ( op .
cit. , p. 15 ) has not been able to find any membrana propria of the above description , nor any structure resembling the " Driisenkorbe " of Boll .
He has always observed between the endothelium of the lymphatics and the epithelium of the vesicles a very fine layer of connective tissue , in which he thinks that the capillaries ramify ( p. 44 ) .
Observations .
Epithelium.\#151 ; The discrepancy of opinion of different observers in regard to the shape of the epithelial cells is , I think , attributable to three chief causes :\#151 ; 1 .
The varying shape of these cells in different animals .
2 .
The different re-agents employed in examining and hardening the organ .
3 .
The state of functional activity of the gland at the time of removal .
With regard to re-agents I have chiefly examined these cells in specimens hardened in the usual way in alcohol\#151 ; others , however , have been examined after being hardened with other re-agents , or in the fresh state .
When it is found , however , that in the glands of the same species of animal prepared by a similar method , the appearance of the epithelial cells differs considerably , one is forced , I think , to admit the third factor above mentioned .
Making due allowance for the two last-named elements of uncertainty , I have found that the general character of these cells in different animals is as follows :\#151 ; .
In the Dog , Cat , Kitten , Babbit , Sheep , Book , Pigeon , and Frog the epithelial cells are cubical or slightly columnar .
In the Seal and Tortoise they are distinctly columnar .
In the Horse , Skate , and Conger Eel they are highly columnar in shape .
The general tendency , therefore , of these cells throughout the vertebrate series , as MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE O THE THYROID GLAND .
far as examined , appears to be to the columnar form\#151 ; their exact height varying in different animals .
A double line of demarcation is often seen on the summits of the epithelial cells ( e.g. , in the Tortoise ) .
This doubtless corresponds with the cuticula described by Zeiss ( vide supra , p. 585 ) and with the appearance of a membrane lining the summits of the epithelial cells which I described in the Dog cit. , p. 560 ) .
On examining with a moderately high power ( Verick , obj .
8 ) a transverse section of the wall of the vesicles in several animals , the appearance of a fine parallel striation has been observed in the epithelial cells running in the long axis of the cell , and extending for a greater or less distance from its summit ( or free extremity ) towards the base .
Examination with a higher power ( such as Zeiss , obj .
F ) does not , however , render this striation more plain , and I have not found it sufficiently distinct to be drawn .
Thinking that this appearance was perhaps produced by intracellular fibrils such as Klein has described ( op .
cit. , p. 327 ) , I treated portions of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise according to the three different methods recommended by the author of that paper ( ibid. , pp. 319 , 321 , and 327 ) , but without being able to see the intracellular reticulum distinctly .
It must be borne in mind , however , that these cells are much smaller than those on which Klein made his observations .
Plate 68 , fig. 8 , shows an appearance probably connected with this striation .
It is taken from the thyroid of a Kitten , injected by the method of puncture with silver , hardened in alcohol , and stained with haematoxylin .
In addition to endothelial markings of the lymphatic , which are clearly seen ( i , i ) , on altering the focus the epithelial cells are seen studded with a quantity of dots and short lines , also stained with the silver , which I can only explain by supposing that the ends of intracellular fibrils have become stained by the silver , and are seen either endways or somewhat obliquely .
The figure which Peremeschko gives ( op.cit .
, Plate 16 , fig. 1 ) of a profile view of the processes at the base of the epithelial cells , showing minute dots arranged in parallel rows running in the longitudinal axis of the cells , suggests the idea that it is these structures which produce the appearance of dots and lines , stained with silver , just described , and also possibly that of the intracellular striation .
My own observations on the existence or non-existence of processes at the base of the epithelial cells have not led to any definite results .
Reticulum.\#151 ; On viewing from the surface the epithelium of the vesicle in the thyroid gland of the Tortoise hardened in chromic acid , a delicate network is seen running between the individual epithelial cells , which stains darkly with hsematoxylin .
( See Plate 68 , fig. 5 .
In this figure the epithelial cells present in the meshes of the reticulum are not represented .
) This reticulum , which is probably formed by coagulated intercellular substance , is seen to be thickened at intervals .
When viewed somewhat obliquely the meshes of the reticulum appear to be made up of delicate lamellae running between the epithelial cells , although it is difficult to speak with certainty on this point .
In spirit , and in osmic acid preparations , this reticulum is also observed in a surface view .
In a profile view of the epithelium of the Tortoise ( hardened in alcohol ) there are seen at intervals amongst the epithelial cells , narrower cells with much elongated nuclei , which latter take the hsematoxylin stain more darkly than the nuclei of the epithelial cells .
On examining these cells carefully they are found to be expanded somewhat like a fan at their summits , and also sometimes at the base , although the latter is not always the case .
Probably these are more or less branched cells , which are situated in the swollen parts of the reticulum above-mentioned .
The reticulum as well as the club-shaped cells just described are very plainly seen in the thyroid glands of the Conger Eel and Skate .
Plate 68 , fig. 6 , gives a surface view of the epithelium as seen in a section of the thyroid of the Conger Eel , hardened in spirit .
Amongst the epithelial cells in this figure are seen the branched or stellate nuclei of the club-shaped cells .
In this animal , as well as in the Skate , the club-shaped cells are often seen in great numbers in a profile view of the epithelium .
It is a common thing to see two of these cells in close approximation to each other , almost suggesting the appearance of stomata opening into the cavity of the vesicle .
That these cells however bear an important part in the absorption from , or secretion into , the cavity of the vesicle is , I think , probable , although I am unable to speak more definitely on this point .
In the Conger Eel the expanded summits of the club-shaped cells may often be observed projecting slightly beyond the surface of the epithelial layer .
The reticulum is also seen in the thyroid gland of Mammals , such as the Sheep and Kitten .
Basement membrane.\#151 ; In a double-injected gland of the Tortoise in which the bloodvessels were injected with carmine-gelatine and the lymphatics with Berlin-blue solution , I have found that the arteries are surrounded more or less completely by their accompanying lymphatics ; the capillaries , on the contrary , run between the epithelium of the vesicles and the smallest ramifications of the lymphatics , which in this animal are found between almost all individual vesicles .
This relation of the lymphatics to the capillaries and arteries can be easily seen in uninjected sections of the same gland , also in those in which the lymphatics only are injected by the puncture-method .
Plate 68 , fig. 9 , exhibits this relation of the minute lymphatics to the capillaries in the thyroid of the Tortoise .
It represents a transverse section of the walls of two adjacent vesicles with the inter vesicular structures .
2 , 2 are the cavities of the two vesicles , 1 , 1 their epithelial walls .
In the centre is seen the small lymphatic ( 3 , 3 ) , and between this and the epithelium on each side the capillaries ( 4 , 4 , 4 ) .
As the ramifications of the capillaries are much more minute than those of the lymphatics , spaces are frequently left between the capillaries in which the endothelial wall of the lymphatic is not separated from the epithelium by a blood-vessel , and at these points the epithelial cells appear usually somewhat elongated .
Two of such points are seen in the figure ( Plate 68 , fig. 9 ) .
In osmic acid preparations of the Tortoise , where the wall of a vesicle happens to be cut obliquely , lying outside the epithelium , is seen the nucleated membrane formed by the endothelial cells of the MR , E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE O THE THYROID GLAND , lymphatics , and on this are observed fine wavy striae , which are evidently due to a delicate layer of connective tissue interposed between the endothelium and epithelium in which the capillary blood-vessels ramify ( see Plate 68 , fig. 7 ) .
Judging from the appearance presented by this layer of connective tissue when examined from the surface , it is probable that it forms a continuous layer even at points where the lymphatics are not separated from the epithelium by capillaries , although in vertical sections I have not been able to trace this layer at these points .
I have not observed any other form of basement membrane , nor have I been able to detect by maceration in Muller 's fluid , any basement membrane resembling the Driisenkorbe " described by Boll .
III .
Contents of Vesicles .
Literature.\#151 ; Frey and Peremeschko describe the contents of the vesicles in the embryo as consisting of a finely granular substance in which cells and nuclei are embedded .
Peremeschko figures these cells and says that they differ from the epithelial cells by their round shape and smaller nuclei .
He finds that in larger embryos vesicles filled with colloid masses are met with here and there .
In young animals the greater part of the vesicles are filled with this mass , and finally in adult animals it is very rare to meet with vesicles without colloid .
Kolliker speaks of the contents of the vesicles in the healthy human thyroid gland as a clear , yellowish , somewhat tenacious fluid containing a large amount of albumen .
Boechat alludes to the cavities as being first partly filled with a fluid of viscid appearance in which float granules in more or less abundance .
Zeiss describes the small vesicles as being first filled with a clear fluid , soluble in water , which is related to albuminous substances in its chemical behaviour , and considers that it is not essentially different from the colloid masses , which often accompany , and subsequently replace it entirely .
Numerous ill-defined , granular disintegrating cells , remains of protoplasm and nuclei , are present in it , also fat granules , cholesterine and octohedral crystals of oxalate of lime .
Almost all observers allude to these contents of the vesicles being subsequently replaced partly or entirely by a substance to which the term of colloid is applied .
Colloid substance.\#151 ; With slight variations this body is described as a homogeneous , transparent , more or less yellow substance ( Virchow , Frey , Kolliker , Boechat ) , viscid in character ( Virchow , Kolliker , Boechat ) , and completely filling the vesicles in the adult state ( Frey ) .
Peremeschko finds that it usually fills the whole vesicle , but that in other cases it appears as smaller or larger transparent drops adhering to the wall of the vesicle ; in still other cases it appears as smaller or larger transparent granules ( sago-grains , Ecker ) suspended in a finely granular mass .
Amongst these granules ( according to Peremeschko ) are found occasionally , even in adult animals , the above-named cells , and stages of transformation of these into the transparent colloid granules may be observed .
Under the microscope the colloid substance is either quite amorphous and homogeneous , or amorphous and slightly granular ( Virchow ) , or it encloses cells , or debris of cells , and granules ( Virchow , Kolliker ) .
Boechat describes the appearance it presents when coagulated by re-agents , namely , that of hard masses of rounded shape with regular or jagged borders .
Zeiss observed true colloid masses in the smaller follicles , appearing in specimens prepared in Muller 's fluid as homogeneous , round , bean or egg-shaped masses , which are rarely granular , with a peculiar bluish or yellow tint , and often consisting of concentric layers .
He found that these are at first suspended in the clear fluid , but soon accumulate layer upon layer on their surface , until they completely fill the vesicle .
The colloid substance is considered by Henle and Kolliker as pathological in character , whilst Boeciiat and Peremeschko regard it as a physiological product .
Zeiss , although agreeing with the last-named observer in having found it present in all Mammals examined , expresses no opinion either way .
Leydig has also found it present in bony Fishes , Sharks and Rays , in Reptiles and Birds , and on that account he is not inclined to regard it as a pathological product when occurring in man .
Observations .
The following are the chief constituents of the contents of the vesicles which have been observed .
They are considered entirely from a morphological point of view , and are described as they appear in specimens which have been hardened in alcohol , unless the contrary is stated .
( Some of the specimens had been previously injected with Berlin blue or with nitrate of silver .
) ( a ) Homogeneous or granular material ( " Colloid " ) .
( b ) Red blood-corpuscles .
( c ) Colourless blood-corpuscles .
( d ) Rounded masses , which stain darkly with hsematoxylin or of a bright yellow colour with picrocarminate of ammonia .
( e ) Crystals and Pigment .
( a)Homogeneous or granular material.\#151 ; Dog.\#151 ; It will be convenient to describe first more fully the appearance of this substance in the Dog , and afterwards to mention its characters in other animals .
In my previous paper ( op .
cit. , p. 560 ) I described in the vesicles of the Dog 's thyroid gland a peculiar material , which in hardened specimens shrinks away from the walls of the vesicle and forms a solid mass in the centre .
In sections stained in picrocarminate of ammonia it appears as a finely granular substance , and stains of a more or less bright yellow hue .
In specimens coloured with hsematoxylin , on the other hand , it presents the appearance of an opaque , grey , or greyish-violet mass which is generally uniform , but sometimes finely granular in appearance .
This substance was present in all the Dogs ( 10 animals ) examined in MR. .
E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
the present research .
In the youngest Dog examined ( 5 weeks old ) the vesicles were almost filled with a granular material , with smooth outline , which assumed a grey tint on staining with hgematoxylin .
In the remaining Dogs the quantity present varied very much .
At one time the vesicles appeared completely filled with it , whereas at another time it formed a shrunken mass only occupying a small portion of the cavity .
The intensity with which this material took the haematoxylin or picro-carminate stain also varied much in different glands .
It may be conjectured that this variation in the amount present corresponded to different stales of functional activity of the gland .
A substance apparently similar was found in greater or less quantity in the thyroids of all the other Mammals examined .
It varied however greatly in amount .
Birds.\#151 ; A similar substance was observed in the thyroid glands of the Fowl and Pigeon .
The thyroid glands of two Hooks were examined ; in one of these Birds the vesicles in both glands were found almost filled with a homogeneous material staining more or less with haematoxylin .
In the second Hook , on the other hand , a very few vesicles contained this material , the great majority of them appearing either empty or much compressed .
In the thyroids of all the Tortoises examined ( 14 ) the vesicles were found almost or entirely filled with this homogeneous material .
In the Frog an apparently similar homogeneous material was invariably present .
Its outline was usually much indented .
Fishes.\#151 ; In the Conger Eel the vesicles contained a homogeneous material , often with indented edges .
In hsematoxylin specimens sometimes , whilst this material presented a yellow colour , its central portion , to a greater or less extent , was of a bright violet tint .
Hounded masses staining more or less with hsematoxylin were often found in the vesicles .
In the Skate in one instance the vesicles contained a comparatively small quantity of homogeneous material , which was much shrunk and contained numerous clear round spaces .
In other glands the contents of the vesicles consisted of coarsely granular masses or of globules of various sizes .
From the description just given there can be no doubt , I think , that , in adult animals at least , the homogeneous or granular material corresponds with the " colloid substance " of authors , and from its almost universal occurrence in the gland-vesicles of adult animals , I have no hesitation in regarding it as a normal product of the organ .
When this homogeneous material shrinks away from the walls of the vesicle its outline often presents an indented appearance , as if beset with pellucid drops ( see Plate 68 , figs. 10 and 11 , taken from the Tortoise , and Plate 68 , fig. 4 , from the Conger Eel ) .
These have been considered as drops of colloid adhering to the walls of the vesicle ( see above\#151 ; Peremeschko ) .
For my own part I regard this appearance merely as the result of contraction of the viscid material ( colloid ) contained in the vesicle , which probably takes place in the following manner:\#151 ; The vesicle being full of the viscid material is placed in the fresh state into alcohol .
This coagulates the viscid material and causes it to shrink .
When this takes place , however , it is necessary either that the walls of the vesicles should fall in , or that the space left between the epithelial wall and the coagulated content should be filled with some other fluid .
It is probable that a clear fluid exudes from the epithelial cells in the form of a drop from each cell , producing the indentations above mentioned .
This will also explain the occurrence of a pellucid appearance around the large round cells found in the viscid material in the Tortoise , which will be described further on ( see Plate 68 , fig. 11 ) .
For in the latter case when the viscid material contracts , fluid probably exudes from the large round cells , and as it escapes equally all round , in the case of one of these cells lying singly , the pellucid appearance is more or less spherical in shape , as shown in the figure .
I have seen no sign of this homogeneous substance consisting of " concentric layers , " or of its accumulating " layer upon layer , " as described by Zeiss .
( b ) Red blood-corpuscles.\#151 ; Fed blood-corpuscles are not uncommonly seen in the vesicles of the thyroid gland .
They have been observed in the glands of Dogs ( whose age ranged from 5 weeks to 7or 8 years ) , in the glands of several Tortoises , and in the Conger Eel .
The blood-corpuscles , which from their being situate in the homogeneous material ( colloid ) above described had beyond all doubt entered the vesicles during life , are sometimes few in number , but at other times they completely fill the reside .
They either appear collected ( or fused ) into a ball in the centre , or are scattered throughout the contents of the vesicle ( see Plate 68 , fig. 10 , from the Tortoise ) .
They are also frequently met with arranged in a layer close to the epithelial cells ( see Plate 68 , fig. 12 , from the Dog ) .
The corpuscles are observed in different stages of disintegration and decolonisation .
In some instances in the thyroid gland of the Dog the epithelial wall of a vesicle containing red blood-corpuscles was seen to be studded with a quantity of minute yellow granules , no doubt due to the absorption of the colouring matter of the escaped red blood-corpuscles by the epithelial cells or inter-cellular reticulum .
( Plate 69 , fig. 13 , 2 , 2 , \amp ; 3 , shows these granules in the epithelial wall of two vesicles containing red blood-corpuscles .
) Colourless blood-corpuscles are sometimes observed in the cavity of the vesicles mixed with the coloured ones .
In the ten Dogs examined , whose age varied from 5 weeks to 12 years , one or more vesicles containing red blood-corpuscles were found , with one exception , in instances either in one or both glands .
( These glands were all uninjected .
) The exception was that of a Dog ( female , aged 12 years ) in which appearances rendered it very probable that there had been an escape of red blood-corpuscles , but this could not be ascertained for certain .
In one gland of a Dog from this series ( female , aged 7 or 8 years ) a very large proportion of the vesicles contained red blood-corpuscles in greater or less number ( see MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
Plate 68 , fig. 12 ) .
The opposite gland of this Dog also contained numerous vesicles with red blood-corpuscles .
In the gland of another Dog ( male , nearly 2 years old ) numerous vesicles containing red blood-corpuscles were also present .
( In these two Dogs the red blood-corpuscles were more disintegrated and less distinct than in many others , but from a study of the changes which the red blood-corpuscles undergo in the vesicles , I think there can be no doubt of these being of this nature .
) From these observations it appears that in the Dog , at least , an escape of red blood-corpuscles is almost constantly taking place into a greater or less number of vesicles .
As only a few sections from each gland were examined , it is obvious that the number of vesicles containing red blood-corpuscles in all probability greatly exceeded that actually observed .
The frequency of the escape of red blood-corpuscles into the vesicles of the Dog , together with its occurrence in the glands of such different animals as the Tortoise and Conger Eel , I think , renders it very probable that the passage of red blood-corpuscles into the vesicles is a normal occurrence in the thyroid gland .
In the thyroid gland of a Seal ( Plioca vitulina ) which I obtained through the kindness of the late Professor A. H. Gakrod , F.B.S. , the epithelium of almost all the vesicles contained numerous dark red granules , which on close examination appeared to be minute crystals .
Arguing from the appearance above-described in the epithelium of the Dog , I attributed these to the absorption of colouring matter from blood effused into the cavity of the vesicles .
Subsequently also on careful examination I found that a large proportion , in some parts certainly the majority , of the vesicles contained structures which were very probably red blood-corpuscles , but , perhaps owing to the gland not being quite fresh , they could not be certainly identified with these .
In the thyroid gland of the Rook , also , in one instance , yellow granules , some of considerable size , were seen in the epithelial wall of almost all the vesicles of both glands ( see Plate 69 , fig. 14 ) , and yellow masses were found in the cavities of some of the vesicles which I was inclined to consider as fused red blood-corpuscles .
A careful examination of these glands led me to believe that in this Bird an extensive haemorrhage had taken place into the vesicles , and that the Bird was killed just as the colouring matter of the blood was being reabsorbed .
It is possible , of course , that the glands of the Book and the Seal just mentioned , as well as those of the two Dogs ( in which an extensive escape of red blood-corpuscles was observed ) , may be pathological in character , in which case considerable interest would also obviously attach to them .
These observations , however , I think at least render it very probable that normally , under certain circumstances , an escape of red blood-corpuscles takes place into a large proportion of the vesicles of the thyroid gland ; they certainly encourage to further research in this direction with a view , if possible , of throwing light on the function of the organ .
The blood which thus escapes into the vesicles contributes , no doubt , to a large extent to the formation of the " colloid " material which they contain , and it seems highly probable that this escape of red blood-corpuscles into the vesicles , with their subsequent disintegration , Has an important bearing both on the physiology and pathology of the gland.* I may mention that vesicles containing many red blood-corpuscles have also been observed in the thyroid gland of Man ( male aged 4 years , and adult Man ) .
The red blood-corpuscles in the vesicles have probably hitherto escaped detection in the physiological state of the gland , owing to the rapidity with which they become melted down , as it were , and thus rendered invisible .
From the fact also that the red blood-corpuscles in the vessels in these specimens often present no distinct structural characters , it is quite possible that red blood-corpuscles may be present in the vesicles at the time of death , although they are not distinguishable as such in sections of the hardened gland .
Although the following applies to a pathological state of the gland it is interesting , as showing that what I have described in the normal state has been already observed in abnormal conditions .
In speaking of vascular goitre ( " Gefasskropf " ) Kolliker ( op .
cit. , p. 482 ) says that in this disease , besides a hypersemic condition , there are numerous aneurysmal dilatations of the small blood-vessels which Ecker regards as arteries and coarse capillaries .
By the bursting of these dilatations apoplectic vesicles of different sizes are formed , which may become modified in various manners by the blood undergoing different changes , \amp ; c. ( c ) Colourless blood-corpuscles.\#151 ; On examining a section of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise , it is common to find in a large proportion of the vesicles , situate in the homogeneous material , a greater or less number of large round cells ( see Plate 68 , fig. 11 ) .
These cells when perfect are round in shape , and present a granular cell-substance .
They are each provided with a single , round , or oval-shaped nucleus .
Both the cells and nuclei are larger than those of the epithelium of the vesicle .
In this respect they differ from the cells described in the vesicles by Permeschko ( supra , p. 589 ) .
Their number in each vesicle often appears to be considerable , for in a section , which of course only includes a portion of the contents of a vesicle , it is not uncommon to find half-a-dozen or more of them .
As they have been found in greater or less number in all the glands of the Tortoise , which have been sufficiently well prepared , I conclude that their presence in the cavities of the gland-vesicles is a normal phenomenon in this animal .
It was first thought that these cells might be parenchymatous cells , such as I have * Amongst other suggestions which occur to one in this connexion , it is impossible to avoid conjecturing , whether rightly or wrongly , that the ancemia which so commonly accompanies certain forms of enlargement of the thyroid gland ( goitre ) may be due to an excessive destruction of red blood-corpuscles in the manner above-described [ see , for instance , Erichsen , ' Science and Art of Surgery , ' 5th ed. , vol. ii .
, p. 297 : " There is a remarkable connexion between tumors of the thyroid gland of this kind ( simple hypertrophy ) and a general anaemic condition of the system .
In London nothing is more common to find than a certain degree of bronchocele in pale and bloodless women and girls ; indeed , so frequent is the coincidence that it is impossible not to regard it in the light of cause and effect " !
MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
already described as passing into the vesicles of the Dog 's thyroid gland ; but from a comparison of them with the fresh blood of the Tortoise , and from the occurrence of very similar cells in the blood-vessels in sections of the hardened gland of the same animal , I think there can be no doubt that they are colourless blood-corpuscles .
It is scarcely necessary to mention that these cells can be easily distinguished from any post-mortem tailing in of the epithelial cells ; moreover , in these specimens the epithelium was usually intact .
In specimens prepared in osmic aGid these cells come out very clearly , and their cell-substance presents a coarsely-granular appearance .
Some of these Tortoises were killed by decapitation , after a ligature had been tightly tied round the neck , but the method of killing could have had no effect in causing the escape of these cells , for they were found equally in those killed by simple decapitation without ligature .
The appearances observed also left no doubt that they had entered the vesicles during the life of the animal .
A few large nucleated cells have been observed in the vesicles of the thyroid gland of the Rook , which were probably colourless blood-corpuscles .
In one thyroid gland of a Dog ( aged 9 weeks ) , many vesicles contained a quantity of cells with granular cell-substance and indistinct outline , both in their cavity and in the substance of the epithelial wall .
The nuclei of these cells were smaller , and stained more deeply with haematoxylin than those of the epithelial cells .
These cells , which I conclude were colourless blood-corpuscles , I am inclined to regard as a pathological appearance , as they were only seen in part of one gland of this Puppy .
Their occurrence in the vesicles cannot therefore be compared with the migration of colourless corpuscles into the vesicles of the Tortoise , which from its being constantly present is doubtless a normal phenomenon .
It appears , therefore , that a migration of colourless blood-corpuscles into the vesicles is a physiological occurrence in the thyroid gland of the Tortoise , but that it may also occur in other animals .
( d ) Rounded masses , embedded in the homogeneous material , have been observed in various animals .
These are usually homogeneous in character , with smooth , or sometimes jagged outline , and stain darkly with hsematoxylin ( more so than the surrounding homogeneous substance ) , or of a bright yellow colour with picrocarminate of ammonia .
They have been observed in the thyroids of Dog , Rook , Fowl , Pigeon , Conger Eel , and Skate .
In the latter they sometimes presented the following appearance .
The central portion was deeply stained with hsematoxylin , whilst the periphery remained almost colourless .
Whether these are pathological in character or not , and what relation they bear to the homogeneous contents of the vesicle , I am unable to say .
( e ) Crystals were found in the homogeneous material in the gland-vesicles of the Tortoise and Rook , the latter being the bird in which it was concluded ( as above-described , p. 593 ) that hcemorrhage had taken place into almost all the vesicles .
The crystals in this case were present in considerable numbers .
4 h 2 Pigment.\#151 ; Masses of brown pigment-granules were frequently seen in the homogeneous material in the thyroid glands of the Frog .
They are probably the result of an escape of red blood-corpuscles into the vesicles , but this point could not be ascertained for certain .
Numerous brown pigment granules wrere also sometimes seen in the homogeneous material in the vesicles of the Conger Eel .
IV .
Parenchyma .
In my previous paper on this subject ( op .
cit. , p. 563 ) I described and figured , as normal structures in the thyroid gland of the Dog , some large round cells provided with a single oval-shaped nucleus , to which I applied the term " parenchymatous cells .
" From the different appearances they present and their different positions in regard to the wall of the vesicle , I concluded that a migration of these cells takes place into the cavity of the vesicles by displacement and compression of the epithelial cells .
Zeiss ( the only observer , as far as I am aware , who has since written on the subject ) has been unable to observe any such migration of cells into the vesicles .
In order to see these cells well , it is of course necessary that the sections should be very thin .
To the description of these cells in the Dog , as given in the above paper , I have little to add .
I have since also observed them in the glands of young Dogs ( aged 5 and 9 weeks respectively ) .
Whilst still maintaining the view that these cells migrate into the cavity of the vesicles , I think it is quite possible that some of them may originate betwreen the epithelium of a vesicle and the capillaries , and from thence pass by compression or separation of the epithelial cells into the vesicle .
In the thyroid gland of the Cat , parenchymatous cells are also present in considerable numbers , although not nearly so numerous as in the Dog .
They resemble very much those seen in the latter animal , and appear to migrate into the vesicles in a similar manner .
A few cells , apparently of similar character , have also been seen in the thyroid of the Rabbit .
In the thyroid of the Pigeon large groups are frequently seen , consisting of cells , which are larger than the adjacent epithelial cells ( see Plate 69 , fig. 15 ) .
They are round or oval in shape , and are provided each with a single spherical or oval-shaped nucleus .
They resemble very much the parenchymatous cells seen in the Dog ; but whether they , like them , migrate into the vesicles I am unable to say , as I have not observed any of them in the substance of the epithelial walls .
Round cells were sometimes seen in the epithelium of the Skate , but the nature oi these could not be ascertained .
In the Conger Eel groups of cells somewhat rounded in form were found amongst the cylindrical epithelial cells , but in all probability these were connected with the origin of the small vesicles in the walls of larger ones , as above described .
MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
V. Lymphatics and their contents .
Literature.\#151 ; Lymphatics.\#151 ; I have already described p. 559 ) and figured in the thyroid gland of the Dog a dense system of lymphatics consisting of tymphatic vessels , spaces , and canals , traversing the gland in all directions .
In opposition to Frey ( quoted by Henle , loc. cit* ) , who I supposed was the last observer who had then studied these structures , I laid stress on their not ending in blind extremities , as described by that author , and on their being much more numerous than he supposed .
After the publication of my observations I became aware that in 1873 P. A. Boechat ( op .
cit. ) had described a very similar network of lymphatics in this organ .
Boechat ( p. 39 ) found that the lymphatics of the thyroid gland of the Dog form a vast hollow network , contained in the stroma of connective-tissue , which serves as framework of the organ .
The network is formed of lymphatic sinuses , which communicate with one another largely .
In its meshes are contained the thyroid cavities ( vesicles ) whose walls are at many points adherent to those of the lymphatics .
He studied them in specimens injected with nitrate of silver and with Prussian blue .
Peremeschko ( op .
cit. ) had also described in the thyroid of the Dog a rich network of lymphatics , which surrounds small groups of vesicles ; also large lymphatic canals , wdiich frequently surround the arteries like sheaths , and under the capsule a network of lymphatic spaces ( " Gang " ) .
Since the appearance of my paper Zeiss cit. , 1877 ) has given a description of these vessels , which agrees on the whole with that given by Boechat and myself .
He finds that the lymphatics form wide cavernous canals , which are not confined to the larger septa , but also as minute clefts ( always lined by the same endothelium ) encircle the follicles separately or in small groups of two , four , or six .
As regards the endothelium , he finds its cells elongated and with wavy borders , the margins of neighbouring cells either fitting accurately into one another or else leaving between them small round or oval areas of cement-substance , which become more darkly stained than the gelatine ( employed with the nitrate of silver in injecting ) and project somewhat above the level of the endothelial cells .
The lymphatic spaces frequently surround the arteries and veins for considerable distances .
Contents of lymphatics.\#151 ; In my former paper ( p. 562 ) I described the appearances presented by the contents of the lymphatics , namely , that of a homogeneous or granular mass , and argued in favour of its being during life of a viscid consistence .
I also drew attention to the close resemblance ( amounting , as I considered , to morphological identity ) between the coagulated contents of the lymphatics and those of the vesicles , and urged its importance as tending to show that the material which is formed in the vesicles is carried off by the lymphatics .
Zeiss has also noticed the coagulability of the contents of the lymphatics , but whilst admitting that they stain in similar * I have not been able to obtain the original article of Feet in the " Viertoljahrssclirift der Naturl'ors-ehenden Gesellschaft in Zurich , " viii .
, i. , 18G3 .
manner with colouring agents , he points out that the contents of the lymphatics show an entire absence of the phenomena of contraction observed in the contents of the vesicles .
Observations .
Mammalia.\#151 ; A system of lymphatics , resembling in its general characters that described in the Dog , has been observed in the thyroid glands of other animals ( Kitten , Horse , Rabbit ) by means of injections by the method of puncture .
The extent of distribution of the network and the minuteness of its ramifications appear to vary in different animals .
The homogeneous or granular contents of the lymphatics have been observed in the same vessels in the thyroids of other animals ( e.g. , Horse , Sheep ) .
This material occurs both in injected and in uninjected specimens .
The quantity varies much in different glands of the same species of animal , it being sometimes present in large quantities and at other times being apparently entirely absent .
With a view of ascertaining whether the occurrence of this material in the lymphatics was peculiar to either sex , or to any particular age , I examined the thyroids of Dogs of various ages in both sexes , but , as might be expected , without any definite result .
It appeared to be present or absent regardless of the sex or age of the animal .
The margins of the coagulated content of the lymphatics undoubtedly do not present the indented appearance seen in the vesicular contents , but this is , I imagine , simply due to the absence of epithelial cells , from which drops of clear fluid could exude ( see above , pages 591 and 592 ) .
Aves .
\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of Birds , on the contrary , I have been unable to inject any system of lymphatics .
My observations on this point are as follows :\#151 ; On injecting the thyroid gland of a Pigeon by the method of puncture with Berlin blue , it swells up , and the injection is seen running in the jugular vein with which the gland is in close apposition .
( It will be remembered that on injecting the Dog 's thyroid gland in a similar manner , the injection was seen emerging from the gland in lymphatic vessels , which ran to neighbouring lymphatic glands .
) Examination of sections of the Pigeon 's gland , thus injected , shows that the injecting fluid has entered vessels containing red blood-corpuscles .
The same vessels become filled on injecting in like manner with a solution of nitrate of silver .
To ascertain whether by the puncture-method the blood-vessels really become injected , another gland was injected with Berlin blue from the lower part of the carotid artery , the artery at the same time being secured above the gland .
In this case , in which the injection had entered the capillaries and veins , it was evident that these were the same system of vessels that had been injected by the method of puncture .
It may therefore be stated that on repeated injections of the thyroid gland of the Pigeon , both with Berlin blue and with nitrate of silver , by the method of puncture , I have been unable to inject any system of lymphatic vessels , but have always found the injection in the blood-vessels of the gland .
I he blood-vessels of the thyroid gland of the Pigeon also present the following pecu- MR , E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
liarities :\#151 ; The capillaries , as usual , form a network running between the individual gland-vesicles , but in proportion to the size of the vesicles they do not appear so minute or to have such complicated ramifications as in the case of other animals ( e.g. , Sheep or Tortoise ) , but resemble more in their distribution the lymphatics in some of the Mammalia ( see Plate 69 , fig. 1 7 ) .
The veins frequently surround either partially or entirely the arteries which they accompany ( see Plate 69 , fig. 18 ) .
Immediately under the surface of the capsule numerous large veins are seen , and in the fibrous capsule itself layers of red blood-corpuscles have been observed , which appear to be contained in blood-vessels communicating with the veins in the interior .
In a preliminary communication presented to the Society on this subject ( Proc. Royal Society , No. 185 , 1878 ) , I mentioned that once or twice I had noticed in the large veins on the surface of the gland ( under the capsule ) in addition to red blood-corpuscles , and perhaps coloured injection , a greater or less quantity of a material of homogeneous aspect , presenting an appearance similar to the material seen in the vesicles , also to that described above in the lymphatics of the Dog .
I do not , however , attach any importance to this , as the contents of the blood-vessels in the Dog , when coagulated , also sometimes present this homogeneous aspect .
In the thyroid gland of the Rook no system of lymphatics becomes injected by the method of puncture , but the blood-vessels , presenting an appearance very similar to those in the Pigeon , become filled .
Reptilia.\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of the Tortoise a network of lymphatics can be injected by the method of puncture , of which the smaller ramifications run between almost all individual vesicles .
In specimens injected with nitrate of silver the lymphatics are seen to be lined by a layer of endothelium , of which the cells are usually elongated and have a sinuous outline .
The areas , stained dark with nitrate of silver ( as described by Zeiss ; see above , p. 595 ) , are well seen in this animal ( see Plate 69 , fig. 16 ) .
They vary much in size and shape , and often appear to have a double contour .
Usually , though not always , they are situate on the boundary line separating two endothelial cells .
In the Tortoise the lymphatics have not usually any visible contents , but they sometimes contain a granular material which stains scarcely at all with hsematoxylin .
Pisces.\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of both Skate and Conger Eel an extensive system of vessels lined with endothelium becomes injected by the method of puncture .
( A considerable portion of the injection , however , also passes into the meshes of the connective-tissue .
) Being doubtful as to whether the vessels thus injected were of lymphatic or blood-vascular character , I injected the thyroid gland of a large Conger Eel with solution of Berlin blue from the blood-vessels ( dorsal aorta and efferent branchial trunks ) ; and from a comparison of the vessels injected in this case with those filled on injection by the puncture-method , I have been led to the conclusion that in the thyroid gland of the Conger Eel at least , as far as my observations extend , there is no evidence of any system of lymphatic vessels .
Large veins , filled with red GOO MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
blood-corpuscles , are frequently seen in this thyroid gland amongst the vesicles , and between these veins and the epithelial wall of the vesicles capillaries often ramify .
VI .
Blood-vessels .
Literature.\#151 ; The great richness of the thyroid gland in blood-vessels and the abundance of its capillaries , which form extensive ramifications on the surface of the vesicles , are generally acknowledged .
Zeiss ( op .
cit. , p. 34 ) describes , in specimens in which the blood-vessels are injected with Berlin blue , knotty dilatations forming dark blue drops situate laterally on the capillaries , or similar structures forming apparently the blind end of a capillary .
He observed these in the Babbit , Cat , and Bat , and says he was unable to observe these peculiar bulging or drop-like dilatations in uninjected specimens , although he speaks elsewhere of the capillaries in uninjected specimens being wedged in between the epithelial cells , and forming small projections towards the epithelial layer .
Zeiss considers that the presence in such great numbers of these nodules or dilatations on the capillaries may retard to a considerable extent the flow of blood through the vessels of the gland , thereby favouring any secretion from , or absorption into , the bloodvessels , which may take place either in connection with the vesicles or with the lymphatics .
Neither Boechat nor Peremeschko make any mention of these dilatations , and in the figure which the latter observer gives of the blood-vessels no sign of them is visible .
Observations.\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of the Tortoise I have frequently observed , in transverse sections of the epithelial walls of the vesicles ( in uninjected specimens ) , projections of the capillaries between the epithelial cells , towards the interior of the vesicles .
I have endeavoured repeatedly to show these by injections of the bloodvessels of the gland in this animal , but without much success , owing to a shrinking of the epithelial cells .
It appears very probable that it is through these projections of the capillaries that the escape of blood-corpuscles ( red or colourless ) takes place into the cavity of the vesicles .
In fact , in one specimen I could see in a vesicle , close to one of the capillary projections , some red and colourless blood-corpuscles which had apparently just escaped from a blood-vessel through this channel .
Some peculiarities of the blood-vessels in the thyroid glands of Birds have been alluded to under the head of lymphatics ( vide supra , p. 598 ) , and those of the Conger Eel have also been , referred to above ( p. 599 ) .
The relation of both large and capillary blood-vessels to the lymphatics has been discussed in considering the basement membrane ( vide , p. 588 ) .
VII .
Undeveloped portions .
In the thyroid gland of the Dog bodies of considerable size are frequently seen , which differ entirely in structure from the rest of the gland ( see Plate 69 , fig. 19 ) .
They are rounded or flattened in shape , usually situate on the surface of the organ , and MR. E. C. BARER OX THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
GO !
possess the following structure ( see Plate 69 , fig. 20 ) .
They consist of a solid mass of more or less cylindrical rows of cells ( Plate 69 , fig. 20 i , i , i ) which are much convoluted and interla.ee in all directions .
Between them run capillary blood-vessels and also probably some lymphatics .
These " cylinders " are composed of cells resembling epithelial cells , columnar or cubical in shape , those on the surface of the cylinder , next to the capillaries , being arranged at right angles to those vessels ( Plate 69 , fig. 20 , 3 ) .
Each cell is provided with a nucleus usually oval in shape .
In very few , if in any , of these cylinders have I been able to detect any central canal .
In Dogs aged three months and upwards I have usually observed these " undeveloped portions " as distinct bodies , not continuous with the normal gland-tissue , but separated from it by layers of connective tissue , and frequently lying in depressions on the surface of the gland ( see Plate 69 , fig. 19 ) .
They appear to be portions of gland whose development has become arrested at an early stage , and there was in these Dogs , usually , no evidence to show that these bodies were undergoing any further development .
Exceptions to this , however , occur ; for example , in a male Dog ( aged nearly 2 years ) an " undeveloped portion " was found which was not distinctly separated from the rest of the gland-tissue , and contained well-formed vesicles showing that it was undergoing further development .
In the Kitten similar undeveloped portions are seen , which are sometimes observed to be continuous with the ordinary gland-tissue .
In this case a formation of vesicles from the cylinders of cells appears to be taking place by the growth into them laterally of processes of connective-tissue with blood-vessels , and by their excavation into vesicles .
In the Kitten the cylinders are less convoluted than in the Dog , and throughout the gland the fully-formed vesicles frequently appear grouped in rows , which have a more or less parallel arrangement .
" Undeveloped portions " have also been observed in the thyroid glands of the Sheep , Seal , and Book .
In the Seal there was a large quantity of fibrous tissue between the cylinders , as well as between the vesicles in the ordinary gland-tissue .
Somewhat similar , but much shorter , cylinders of cells have been seen in the thyroid gland of the Pigeon scattered throughout the gland .
There can be no doubt that these bodies are portions of the gland of which the development has progressed no further than the stage described by W. Muller ( vide supra , p. 583 ) , in which the gland consists of a network of cylindrical tubes , at first irregular , but afterwards becoming more regular in character ; the tubes ( according to Muller ) being composed of short cylindrical epithelial cells , placed radially on the surface of the envelope and being at first solid , but subsequently provided with a lumen .
I have also observed these cylinders in the thyroid glands of foetal Pigs ( measuring about inches in length ) .
The occurrence of these undeveloped portions continuous with the ordinary gland-tissue in the thyroids of young animals of course merely indicates that a formation of gland-tissue is taking place in the manner described by W. Muller .
mdccclxxxi .
4 1 In the thyroid gland of the Dog , however , it is remarkable that although these bodies are of frequent occurrence , there is , usually , in Dogs aged three months and upwards no evidence to show that they are undergoing further development .
It is an interesting question whether the undeveloped portions , which are distinct from the gland , may not under certain circumstances become developed into true gland-tissue , and either give rise to the isolated lobes mentioned by various authors , or simply cause an increase in size of the gland itself .
Masses of lymphoid tissue have been observed in the thyroid glands of Kitten and Pigeon .
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS .
1 .
In the Frog , in opposition to the statements of several observers , the thyroid gland forms two small bodies situate , one on either side , on the ventral surface of the hyoid cartilage ( or bone ) usually but not always in direct contact with this structure .
They are placed either between the hyoid cartilage and the hyoglossus muscles , or else immediately to the outer side of the latter , just anterior to the point of their convergence .
2 .
In the thyroid gland of adult animals the vesicles form closed cavities which are not in communication with one another to any extent .
Branched vesicles , which may be present in the glands of adult animals , probably merely indicate that an increase in the number of vesicles is taking place by the growth into them of involutions of their walls .
In the Conger Eel small vesicles are frequently observed in the walls of larger ones , into which they appear sometimes to burst by causing a flattening of the epithelial walls .
3 .
Whilst the shape of the epithelial cells varies much in different animals , the general tendency of these cells throughout the Vertebrate series , as far as examined , is to the columnar form .
A delicate reticulum ( as described by Zeiss ) is found amongst the epithelial cells of the vesicles .
In a profile view of the epithelium club-shaped cells are also often seen , which are probably more or less branched cells situate in the swollen parts of the reticulum .
The only form of basement membrane observed has been a delicate layer of connective tissue between the epithelium and the endothelium of the lymphatics in which the blood-vessels ramify .
4 .
The following are the chief contents of the vesicles which have been observed in the microscopical examination of specimens hardened in alcohol .
( ?
) Homogeneous or granular material ( " colloid substance " of authors ) has been observed with slight variations in all classes of the Vertebrata , and is undoubtedly a normal product of the organ .
( ?
) Red blood-corpuscles are frequently found in the vesicles in greater or less number and in various stages of disintegration and decolorisation .
In the epithelial wall of vesicles containing red blood-corpuscles , granules of yellow MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE O THE THYROID GLAND .
pigment are sometimes seen , which appear to be due to the absorption by the epithelial cells or reticulum of the colouring matter of the effused blood .
Observations on the Dog lead to the inference that in this animal an escape of red blood-corpuscles is almost constantly taking place into a greater or less number of vesicles , and its occurrence in other animals also ( Man , Tortoise , Conger Eel ) renders it very probable that the 'passage of coloured blood-corpuscles into the vesicles is a normal occurrence the thyroid gland .
Further observations ( Dog , Book , Seal ) also render it very probable that normally under certain circumstances an escape of red blood-corpuscles takes place into a large proportion of the vesicles of the thyroid gland .
The blood thus effused contributes to a large extent to the formation of the " colloid " substance , and probably has an important bearing on the physiology and pathology of the organ .
( c ) Colourless blood-corpuscles are frequently found in the homogeneous material in the gland-vesicles of the Tortoise .
A migration of colourless corpuscles into the vesicles is a normal occurrence in the Tortoise , but it may also take place in other animals .
( d ) Rounded masses , staining darkly with hfematoxylin or of a bright yellow colour wdth picrocarminate of ammonia , are seen in the vesicles of many animals .
Crystals sometimes occur in the gland vesicles ( Tortoise and Book ) and brown pigment granules have been observed in the colloid material in the vesicles ( Frog and Conger Eel ) .
5 .
Parenchymatous cells , already described in the Dog , also occur in the glands of young Dogs and in less numbers in the Cat , in which animal they appear to migrate into the vesicles in the same manner as in the Dog .
Large groups of round or ovalshaped cells , provided with a single nucleus , frequently occur in the thyroid gland of the Pigeon .
6 .
A network of lymphatics resembling in its general characters that previously described in the Dog , though differing apparently in the extent of its ramifications , is also seen in some other Mammals .
The homogeneous or granular contents of the lymphatics in the Dog occur in both injected and in uninjected specimens and in very variable quantity ; the amount being apparently independent of the sex or age of the animal .
In the thyroid gland of Birds ( Pigeon ) no system of lymphatics is injected by the method of puncture , but the injecting fluid enters the blood-vessels of the gland , escaping by the jugular vein .
The thyroid gland of the Tortoise contains a network of lymphatics , of which the smaller ramifications run between almost all individual vesicles .
The endothelium of these lymphatics presents well marked areas of irregular size and shape , stained darkly with nitrate of silver .
In the thyroid gland of the Conger Eel no evidence of a system of lymphatics was obtained by injections .
7 .
The arteries are ensheathed more or less completely in their accompanying lymphatics ( Dog , Tortoise ) ; the capillaries , on the contrary , run between the epithelium of the vesicles and the smallest ramifications of the lymphatics ( Tortoise ) leaving intervals between them , where the lymphatic is not separated from the epithelium by blood-vessels .
Projections of the capillaries between the epithelial cells towards the cavity of the vesicles occur frequently in the Tortoise .
In the Pigeon the inter-vesicular ramifications of the blood-vessels are not so complicated or minute as in other animals ( Sheep , Tortoise ) but resemble more the distribution of lymphatics in some Mammals .
The veins , in the Pigeon , frequently surround either partially or entirely the arteries which they accompany .
8 .
Bodies consisting of portions of the gland of which the development has proceeded no further than the stage of convoluted " cylinders of cells " described by W. Muller are frequently seen in the thyroid gland .
The cylinders are composed of cubical or columnar cells , resembling epithelial cells , those on the surface of the cylinder being arranged at right angles to the capillaries , which ramify between the cylinders .
In Dogs aged three months and upwards these " undeveloped portions " usually form distinct bodies separated by layers of connective tissue from the rest of the gland .
In young animals , such as the Kitten , they are often continuous with the ordinary gland-tissue into which they are evidently developing .
In conclusion , I wish to offer my best thanks to Dr. Klein for his direction in this research , which has extended over a period of several years .
Explanation of the Plates .
PLATE 68 .
Fig. 1 .
Transverse section of a portion of the neck of a moderate sized Frog , on a level immediately anterior to the convergence of the hyoglossus muscles .
( Verick 's obj .
0 , oc .
I. All the lenses employed in these drawings were V^rick 's , except an obj .
F of Zeiss .
) 1 .
Hyoid cartilage .
2 .
2 .
Thyroid glands , situate directly on the ventral surface of the hyoid cartilage .
3 .
Hyoglossus muscles seen in transverse section .
Fig. 2 .
Outline of a branched vesicle from a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of a Puppy ( aged 5 weeks ) hardened in alcohol .
The section from which this was taken was purposely very thick , and the different portions of the vesicle , which are situate on different planes , can only be brought into view by repeatedly altering the focus .
The epithelium is semi-diagrammatic .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) Fig. 3 .
From a transverse section of the thyroid gland of a Dog ( aged 3 months ) hardened in alcohol .
Showing the outline of a branched gland-vesicle .
This body appears at first sight to be composed of three distinct vesicles , but on focussing the continuity of these three can be traced at i , i. ( Obj .
6 , oc .
1 .
) MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
605 Fig. 4 .
Transverse section of a portion of the wall of a large gland-vesicle from the thyroid gland of a Conger Eel , hardened in alcohol and stained with haema-toxylin .
( Obj .
6 , oc .
I. , tube half drawn out .
) 1 , Cavity of the large vesicle .
2 , 2 .
Its epithelial wall , of which the cells are represented semi-diagramatically .
3 , 3 .
Small vesicles , which are situate in the epithelial wall of the large vesicle and are separated by much flattened epithelial cells from the cavity of the latter .
4 , Another vesicle , separated by cells less flattened from the cavity of the large vesicle .
5 , 5 .
Vesicles distinctly outside the wall of the large vesicle , which appear to be growing outwards .
The homogeneous contents of the small vesicles are seen with their jagged outlines .
The vesicles represented in this drawing are not all quite on the same level .
Fig. 5 .
From a section of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise , hardened in a 1 per cent , solution of chromic acid ( 17 hours ) and subsequently in diluted and in strong alcohol , and stained with haematoxylin .
The intercellular reticulum is seen from the surface , but the intervening epithelial cells are not represented .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) Fig. 6 .
From a section of the thyroid gland of the Conger Eel , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin , giving a surface view of the epithelial cells amongst which are seen the branched nuclei of the club-shaped cells .
They are probably connected with the intercellular reticulum .
( Obj .
6 , oc .
I. , tube half drawn out .
) Fig. 7 .
From a section of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise prepared as follows : injected by the method of puncture with -g-th per cent , solution of osmic acid , hardened in a 1 per cent , solution of the same acid for five hours , and subsequently in alcohol , mounted in glycerine .
It shows ( at i ) the epithelial wall of a vesicle cut obliquely , beyond which there projects ( at 2 ) a membrane having delicate wavy striae on it .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) Fig. 8 .
From a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of a Kitten injected with nitrate of silver by the method of puncture , hardened in alcohol and stained with haematoxylin .
The drawing represents a portion of the wall of a vesicle seen from the surface .
By focussing from the interior of the vesicle , three layers can be distinguished .
First , the oval-shaped nuclei , at regular intervals , stained with haematoxylin ; secondly , a layer of dots and short striae , stained with nitrate of silver , only represented in the centre of the drawing ; and thirdly , the outlines of the endothelial cells of a lymphatic , also stained with silver ( 1 , 1 ) .
( Obj .
F , oc .
II .
) Fig. 9 .
From a section of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise ( injected with Berlin blue by the method of puncture , but the injection had not penetrated into this branch of the lymphatics ) , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsema-toxylin , showing a portion of the walls of two adjacent vesicles with the intervening structures seen in transverse section .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) 1 , l. Epithelial walls of two vesicles .
2 , 2 .
Cavities of ditto .
3 , 3 .
Small branch of lymphatic running between the two vesicles .
The nuclei of some of its endothelial cells are seen .
4 , 4 , 4 .
Capillaries situate between the lymphatic and the epithelial cells .
This drawing also shows certain points at which the lymphatics are not separated from the epithelial cells by capillaries .
Fig. 10 .
From a section of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise , uninjected , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin .
Section of a vesicle containing homogeneous material , with indented edges , embedded in which are nume : rous red blood-corpuscles partly separate and partly fused together to form a ball in the centre of the vesicle .
Epithelium drawn semi-diagrammatically .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) Fig. 11 .
Section of another vesicle from the same thyroid gland as the preceding , prepared in like manner .
The vesicle contains , embedded in the homogeneous material , several large round nucleated cells ( colourless blood-corpuscles ) .
Epithelium semi-diagrammatic .
( Obj .
8 , oc .
I. ) Fig. 12 .
From a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of a Dog ( female , aged 7 or 8 years ) , uninjected , hardened in alcohol and stained with picro-carminate of ammonia .
Numerous vesicles are seen in section , almost all of which contain in addition to the usual homogeneous material a greater or less number of partly disintegrated red blood-corpuscles .
The epithelium , which is somewhat flattened , probably from the effect of the re-agents , is represented diagrammatically .
( Obj .
6 , ocs .
I. and III .
) PLATE 69 .
Fig. 13 .
From a transverse section of the thyroid gland of a Dog ( male , aged 3 months ) , uniniected , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) 1 .
Epithelial wall of a vesicle , which at\#151 ; 2 .
2 .
Contains numerous yellow pigment granules .
At the right-hand lower corner the epithelium is cut somewhat obliquely , so that its inner margin is not well defined .
In the interior of the vesicle are seen numerous red blood-corpuscles .
3 .
Portion of the wall of an adjacent vesicle also containing many red blood-corpuscles .
In this epithelial wall are likewise seen numerous pigment granules .
MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
607 Fig. 14 .
From a transverse section of a thyroid gland of the Kook , uninjected , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin .
Representing the epithelial walls of several vesicles containing yellow pigment-granules of various sizes .
1 , i , i , i , i. Cavities of vesicles , whose contents are not represented .
2 .
Epithelial wall of a vesicle , seen from the surface , showing numerous pigment granules .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) Fig. 15 .
Large round cells from a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of the Pigeon , injected from the artery , hardened in alcohol and stained with picrocarminate of ammonia and with hsematoxylin .
( Obj .
8 , oc .
I. ) Fig. 16 .
From a section of the thyroid gland of the Tortoise , injected with per cent , solution of nitrate of silver by the method of puncture , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin .
Surface view of the endothelium of a large lymphatic , showing in addition to the endothelial markings areas of various size , stained darkly with nitrate of silver .
( Obj .
8 , oc .
I. ) Fig. 17 .
From a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of a Pigeon , injected by the method of puncture with j per cent , solution of nitrate of silver , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin .
1 , i , i. Small intervesicular blood-vessels , into which the nitrate of silver has run , containing red blood-corpuscles .
2 , 2 , 2 .
Walls of ditto stained with nitrate of silver .
3 , 3 , 3 .
Gland-vesicles stained with hsematoxylin .
In this specimen the blood-vessels also contain coagulated fibres which are not represented in the drawing .
( Obj .
6 , oc .
I , tube drawn out .
) Fig. 18 .
From a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of the Pigeon , injected by the method of puncture with Berlin blue , hardened in alcohol and stained with hsematoxylin .
1 , i , i. Gland-vesicles only represented in outline .
2 , 2 .
Two arteries seen in transverse or slightly oblique section .
3 , 3 .
Vein containing red blood-corpuscles and partly surrounding the arteries In addition to the blood-corpuscles the vein contains Berlin blue injection , and some homogeneous balls which are not represented in the figure .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) ( For explanation of these two figures see above , p. 598 .
) Fig. 19 .
From a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland of a dog ( male , aged 3 months ) , uninjected , hardened in alcohol .
Undeveloped portion seen in section lying in a depression on the surface of the gland .
i , i , i. Layers of connective tissue separating the undeveloped portion ( 2 ) from the ordinary gland-tissue , and also forming septa running into the interior of the gland .
The connective tissue is also seen to be continuous with the capsule of the gland .
Blood-vessels are seen in it in section .
MR. E. C. BABER ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THYROID GLAND .
2 Section of an " undeveloped portion , " with an indication of its convoluted cylinders .
* 3 , 3 , 3 .
Ordinary gland-tissue , the vesicles being represented diagrammatically and in outline .
( Obj .
O , oc .
I. ) Fig. 20 .
From the same gland .
Section of part of an " undeveloped portion " seen under a high power .
1 , i , i. " Cylinders of cells .
" 2 , 2 , 2 .
Septa of connective tissue and blood-vessels separating these .
3 , A " cylinder " from which the epithelial cells have partly fallen out .
( Obj .
F , oc .
I. ) i Hue ira/ rvs.lool .
OiS ^ / II g. 6 .
A # i , : ?
.\#166 ; . .
S .
f\#187 ; \#174 ; JL \#171 ; \#187 ; \#169 ; K\#174 ; sVt## \#166 ; % ; *m 'i*a ' Tig *\lt ; Fig.2 .
.\#163 ; \gt ; .
I r .-.\#171 ; *v , ?
v i \#166 ; \#163 ; .
\gt ; .\#171 ; ; ,4l ' .
\#166 ; ' .
'/ Fig. 7 .
# HI Fig 11 .
F.g 3 , JW , I / 'll \ \lt ; ?\lt ; .f j *\lt ; !\gt ; \lt ; ?* ' if , |$\gt ; '/ ft. #* / \gt ; n 3T rig .
5 .
Fiq .
8 .
t*.j f i p cy i o 4 .
Fi\lt ; 9 .
\gt ; 1 i V # -JpT*\#171 ; Vf if ' \#166 ; 1*1 Li\#174 ; Fig 12 .
j my .
xiwrvo.vuaaz Ficj .
16 .
' " V \ }\ \ v / M ; u./ !
j \ IV , L ' % k r lA/ iJC#- .
N*\gt ; W\#187 ; \amp ; C f 7* \gt ; \gt ; \#187 ;

