]\gt ; Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the 1869 .
On some indications of a Daily Periodicity in the Functions of Man . .
1873 .
On the Hours of Maximum No ] tality in Acute and Chronic Diseases . .
1874 .
The Autho Folin ( L. de ) L. Pe'rier Voyage Scientifique de la Fre'gate 'Valorouf dans les Mers Arctiques ; revu par Gwyn Jeffreys . .
Bordeau 1877 .
J. Gwyn Jeffreys , F.R. Gillman ( H. ) The Ancisnt Men of the Greftt Lakes . .
1875 .
The Autho Guthrie ( F. ) , F.B.S. Letters on the Sugar-Cane and on Suga .
Jfauritius 1863 .
A Examination of some of Waters of Mauritius . .
1865 .
Ths Autho Hill ( G. W. ) On the part of the Motion of the Lumar Psrigee which a function of the mean motions of the Sun and Moon .
bridge [ U.S. ] 1877 .
Ths Autho Murchison ( Dr. ) , F.B.S. Clinic{l Lectures on of the Live Jamldice , and Abdominal Dropsy .
1877 .
The Autho Noble ( A. ) et F. A. Abel Recherches sur les Substances Explosive Combustion de la Poudre .
Traduit par Aloncle et Hedon . .
Par 1877 .
The French Inspector-General of illerl Reade ( T. M. ) On Geological Time . .
Liverpool 1877 .
The Autho Magnetic Needle of pure Nickel , made by Joseph Wharton , Philadelphi The Autho \mdash ; On the Hindoo Division of the Octave , with some Addition to the Theoryof Systems of the Higher Order .
By H. BOSANQUET , Fellow of St. John 's College , Oxford .
Commul nicated by Prof. HENRY J. S. F.R.S. , Savilian Pro fessor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
Receive January 5 , 1877 .
Read February 8 My attention has been recently to some ] tions which appear to afford information concerning the interval Some time after the paper was , the author 's attention was called to M. Fetis ' work , a reference to which is eInbodied in the paper .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. .
p. 540 .
Hindoo Division of the Octave .
use among the Hindoos * .
In parbicular it appears that the foundation their system is a division of the into 22 intervals , which are Jled S'rutis .
I propose to discuss this system in the light of the theory rmerly communicated to the lioyal Society ; it is one rhat have called the higher , and the theory of such systems has not sufficiently deyeloped , I take the opportunity of addin what is cessary for the , discussion , and practical treatment of the :incipal systems of this charactel .
Some light may be on the object of ) ilper b the ( lotation from the of Fetis before referred to .
After exhaustive eatment of the various accessible scales , \amp ; c. , from the artistic oint of , he sums up in the :\mdash ; " " D'nilieurs , pour etablir d'une la usique indienne de nos jonrs , il qu'ellc sir les eux par un nusicien posscdant unle issance c de et de science , ce qui n'a pas eu lieu .
Cette ctude our etre bien faite , non seulement le chmque , bservateur de tout syst ) ) .
Dans ces conditions eulement , on determiner exactitude la de ln des de Inde modern , , ni .
Ouseley , ni lVillard , ni .
Jones ; ) ' ions c sujet n'ont pas la rigoureuse ision q indiellsttIlo les echerches de ce gemre The oint of the prescnt paper , so far il to music , is until mcans of ) ystems as are ] to be ith cnts fixed tones .
the halmonium ) , and of ) snch tems } acts , lve can have no inty as to the tht in prescnt tate of musical tion .
Fetis employs the principle of rvals v ith meant semitones , hich is the ) of fhods ; but le uses it only for the purpose of ) on eeIl 'he Hindoo stem of 2 ) , or of use of the method onsonances h that the vina historic } is coItcords , completc is snough of itself to of 1 the stem of The Hindoo scitle has for ) indu M nsic , I. , : 8chool , \amp ; c. Felis , ' de Proc. Roy .
Soc. , 1 An Treatise on rvals nerament ' ( lfacmillan , 1876 ) .
Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the of the writers , and seems accepted as fundamental , is represented con monly as follows , S'rutis bein such that 22 of them make an octave:rutis .
Hindoo names .
European names .
The above scale is called the Shadia Grama .
Another form called Madhyama Grama is precisely similar to the except that the intervals Pa-Dha and Dha-Ni are inverted ; so that have Pa There is a third principal form , the constitution of which appears ur celtain ; but the two above given are suggestive , and ars enough to make clear to us the general nature of the ngement .
In fact , if we Huppose for a moment that the fifths and thirds of thi scale are perfect , which is not exactly true , we see that the first form Shadja Grama , is the form we should give to the scale in just intonatior when we wish to retain the ordinary second of the key , and raise th sixth of the key , so as to form a good fifth v-ith the second .
in th key of should raise to , so as to get the good fifth , ) .
Th other form , Madhyama Grama , corresponds to the diatonic scale as ordi narily given .
Are the S'rutis all equal in value ?
The nativs writers about this , but the European ones for the most part suggest that they an not .
For instance , an English recently wrote , ' A S'ruti is quarter tone or a third of a tons according to its position in the scnle .
This appears to be a misapprehension arising from the modern idea thal ench interval of a tone in the scftle is necessarily the same .
But th ' language in which the different forms of the scale is described indicates that a note rises or falls it gains or loses a S'ruti ; sequently we infer the S'rutis are intended to be equal in sort of , probably without any very great precision .
We shall now show that the iifths and thirds , produced by a ision Hindoo Division of the Octave .
the octave into 22 equal intervtLls , do not deviate very widely from the intervals , which are the foundation of the diatonic scale .
For this purpose we shall only need to recall the values of the perfect fth and third in terms of equal temperament semitones of 12 to the chve .
A simple calculation will give us the values of the correspouding rvals of the system .
The perfect fifth is semitones , or nearly .
The perfect third is semitones , nearly .
To find the interval in semitones mitde by.r units of the system of 22 , ve have or Hence we obtain the following yalues : of 22 .
No of Interval in ] Intel. .
in semitolles .
Maior third . . . . . . . .
7 ifth . . . . . . . . . . . .
13 Hence the fifth of the system of 22 is sharp nbout of a comma very nearly .
The maior third is flat by 045 , or of a commn nearly .
( Comma of The system of 22 possesses , then , remarkable ) ropertlcs ; it has both flfths and thirds considerably better than any othel cydical stem hnving so low a of notes .
The only obiec.tion , far as the concords to its practical employment for our own purposes lies in the fifths ; these lie just the limit of hat is iu the case of instruments with continuous tones .
( The mean tontl stem is regarded the extreme limit ; this has fifths of comma ) the rposes of the Hindoos , where no stress is 1 on the nlony , is already so perfect that improvement could bo cted .
It is thus wrong to suppose that the system of neaed tempering to bring its concords into tune .
These are quite as rough and poorly toned strnments of .
But although the consouimce error of hird is ] ] , it is far Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the otherwise with the deviations of the other intervals of the scale from th values to which Europeans accustomed .
of 22 .
Interval .
Differenoe of Units .
Interval .
Exact interva Fourth . . . . . . . . . .
9 Major tone . . . . . .
4 Minor tone . . . . . .
3 Major 2 lIinor third . . . . . .
6 lfinor semitone . . . .
1 5454 .4067 regarding these numbers must remelnber that , far peam musicians are concerned , the tion from equal temperament is the most important thing in a melodic point of view ; and this is expressed in every case by the notation adopted for the intervals .
Intervals which deviate widely from equal meant sound out of tune to the European ear ; and , as is not employed , the justification hich derivation from perfect coucords is felt to in harmony has no opportunity of asserting ilself .
only lnethod by hich it be possible to make reliable investitions on the inter ) practically used in India be to provide some instrument suitable for manipulating the system of 22 divisions in the octave , and then to compnre its intervals with those } by the Indian musicians .
will thus be pohsib ] to find is the extent of the , if any , they employ .
The education of the Enropean ear is as yet so imperfect that no of ] be placed on tions of intervals , other ]lumbers of tempernment semitones , if made by ear only , with skilled habit of fractions of by ear is completely uncultiv{ted among us ; and the value to be on the dicttt of Etlropean o is in sequence little or Hindoo ivision of the Octave .
I shall presently indicate the mode in -hich the prillciples of the keyboard permit us to construct an instrument that will deal My with this system of 22 , and exhibit in manner the sinular laws of harmony to whioh its notes are snbject .
of the Let us recall what is meant by the } de } of systcm .
( The lstters .
are used bbrcviation f " " equal temperament The E.T. fifth is 7 semitones ; the is 12 semitolles .
12 E.T. fifths octaves semitones .
The perfect fifth , on the other hand , is Derfect fifths And in other systems there is smttll differejlce b even 1 fifths and octaves .
the simplest in which this cau be is to make this small difference the unit of the ) ysteJn .
this is the system is said to be of the order .
But sometimes this small difference is more one : if it is divided into two units , lve that the system is of , second ; if into three , of the third , and so on .
The forms of ement info scales and rmony of fifths and thirds depend primarily upon the orders of stems .
for the details of the to llly ious c } munication cited , I recall only that he ) of ench proceed by differences of 12 , and ' the first three orders they as Ordet. .
1 .
29 I 34 I18 3 .
10The accompanying illustration ( 1 ) ) is meant by the of ) is of thd The numbers the arncteristic n ) arrallged in order of .
of being always ouf .
arful .
of represented dir Then the circle of 1 fifths ) in systems of tiths ils terminal nlifs { l .
In the tion see the the ) nolc ] is introduced Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the DIAGRAM I. Characteristic numbers of system of 22 in order of fifths .
a cfl Pormation of Thirds may be formed either by the notes of the circle of fifths with which ws start , or by the notes of another circle any number of unit above or more generadly below the first .
In the system of 22 we have seen that he third is 7 units .
Lookinl at the circle of fifths , the third by 4 fifths up is 8 units .
We may form the to anynote therefore by ascending through 4 fifths of the serie and then descending one unit ; .
the is formed in the circle : fifths one unit below that which contains the This mode of formation has not been previously considered .
It to the following observation , which is important in the practical employ meant of the systems : \mdash ; Modulation through a third , in systems of this character , cannot generally treated as equivalent to modulation through any number o$ fifths .
We proceed to a further classification of the higher systems , based on this property .
By definition , the interval between the two ends of the circle of fifths is units .
Let circles of fifths be placed in juxtaposition , so that corresponding pairs of notes are all one unit apart , and consider the third formed with the starting point of the uppermost series .
Then we shall define a system as being of class , when the third Jies in the series below the upper one .
In the system of 22 , the third ( 7 ) to lies one series below that in which is , so that we may define the properties of the system of 22 by saying that it is of order 2 and class 1 .
The simplest systems of higher orders are those which form their thirds Hindoo Division of the Octave .
ither by 4 fifths uP or 8 fifths down in the same series ; these may bs poken of as of order class , and order class respectirely .
Both been considered in my paper already referred to .
I proceed to indicate shortly the general expressions by means of which ystems can be discussed .
The departure of the third formed by 4 fifths up is In system of class , the bhird is uuits lowel\ldquo ; and its departure is .
( i ) And this has to be compared the departure of the perfect third , nearly .
So that for a determination of the class of any system of the order , we have the approximate condition nearly . . . . .
The formulae ( i ) and ( ii ) are sufficient for any required discussion ; they present no difficulty , and I confine myself to statement of of the principal results .
The departure of the third of all systems of class 1 is sented by The system of 34 , of order 2 class 1 , presents both fifths and of exceptional excellence .
This system be of inferest for modern purposes .
Systems of the third order and first class have equal-temperament thirds ; for ( i ) vanishes when : or , more system has E.T. thirds when the number of the class is of the Svstems of order class hich m need not be considered , as their thirds ttre sharper than E.T. In the third order , class 2 , there is good of 8 In the fourth order , class 2 , there is a good system Neither of these are likely to be of st. actical A In the light of the foregoing we see that he keyboard , { hitherto constructed , is of limited .
il is pabl Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the of controlling only systems which form their thirds by either 4 fifths or 8 fifths .
The systems included by these condihons are all of the first order , positive and negative , and all systems of order class or class .
These embrace all that likely to be interestin with reference to European harmonious music , with the possible exceptio .
of the system of 34 above alluded to .
The principles of position on which the keyboard is founded are , how ever , pplicable to all higher systems ; and I shall presently investigat its transformations .
The keyboard of the second order thus obtain will afford of a enient nner , systems the first that order , and dealing ncility with either th Hindoo system of 22 , or the system of 34 above mentioned .
But before proceeding to discuss ) eseal'rangements , it is desirable provido the extension of our notation , which is necessary for with systems of the order and classes other than and jneralized Noiation .
The notation which I have hitherfo employed has ] } assumed the tion , or rture , due to a circle of 12 fifths is identical with one unit of the system Thus represented both the departure of 12 fifths the smallesl , or unit , of the system .
In non-cyclical systems , in of the first order , this tion is consistent and satisfactory ; but in systenls of higher orders these ollceptions derge .
The departure of 12 fifths the unit of the system no longer be represented by the same symbol .
The choice we will make is , that the symbol of elev{tion or depression shall represent primarily one unit of the system .
Thus will always represent the ullit , but will ouly represent the departure of 12 fifths in systems of the first order .
will be the departure of velve fifths in systems of the second order ; in systems of the third order , and so on .
It follows that , in a colltinuous series of fifths , at the point here series of the notation joiIl , the difference of the , on the two notes which constitute the ffith , will be Thus the ving n fifths which the mmarked series to that next above In the 1st order , 2nd , , , 3rd , , , and so on .
We now quire only to find the thirds .
Introducing the condition that the system be of class , we find the third its :\mdash ; Pass up four steps in the series of fifths , and then .
units Hindoo Division of the Octave .
Example.\mdash ; Order 2 , Class 1 .
1 Third to : 4 steps up give 1 unit down , which is the required third .
Third to : 4 steps up give / 1 unit down which is the third .
Whence , in order 2 class 1 , of the memoria-technica vord ) form thirds by one notes by one Iown .
Similarly , in a system of order class \ldquo ; form thirds ith up , and all the remaining notes sformations of It is only necessary to require , in the construction of the 1eyboard , that all the keys shall equally fit the ) , to render it ossible to produce any position tenl 1 ith sufHcienl ]lumber the ordinary keys .
This requirement hns becll attended to in the for the sftke of simplification ; tho important results which flow from it were not seen .
it is found that unless the attention of the maker is to , the nature of the finishing processes does not secure the result i11 qucstion ; thsre is , however , no dilficulty securing it it The distance of the end of the key on the plnn ( 1 ) tion on horizontal plane ) from a lin of reference from to lcft determines the form of the L-ey completely .
There are 12 such positions ; that ) ribe the pattern of any key completely as fumction of serics of nbers rlnning from 1 to12 .
After 12 the same pallerl ith rcf'erence to standard line , such that the old the positiolt f the The ordinary arrangement of a series of 1 fifths ' be simply exhibited by writing under each note of the selies the of its pattern is a function .
Direct ) 12 3 4 5 I1 1 ] Increase of the numbers denotes :t$ distance from the front ; so to his .
meant , rise on the fo risc in Before the \ldquo ; it , malter f.or it Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the DIAGRAN U. Hindoo Division of the Octave .
fifths correspond to ] on the keyboard , and vice wrsa .
It is a question manipulatio1l ; the antages are in some cases rather evenly balanced , md it is very desirable to exnmine this arrangement ally .
The first example of Transformation will bear upon this problem:\mdash ; It is possible to converb a generalized of the\ldquo ; arrangenent\ldquo ; bove described into an " " inverted one\ldquo ; by rearrangiug the keys .
Inverted board .
To complete this transformation in extremely ctical manner , only to determine the condition that white black notes shall emain the same .
Looking at the keyboard of an ordiuary hich presents the rder of white and black , we see , as fn colour is concerned , it is ymmetrical nbout two points , and } ) .
Portions of keyboard , there:.ore , which terminate in these poinfs , or equidistttnt on oppo ; ite sides from either , present , iverted from to left , the equence of black and as before .
The most convel for this purpose consists of comp keys from to , any number of included .
When inverted , .
when the Jlote on the extreme right is placed in the same row on the extreme left , and so on , such an nrrangemeut presents the same of and as belorc .
The becomes a , and the se ol ' tterns is that of an series .
of th , Systems of the order in the ends of ths cirde of 12 fifths include uuits of the stem .
the keyboard of the order may be defined as that Ilit i notes ) in the ] tho of a of 1 fifths .
It is easy to the condition of fhc ooeneral case .
The difference of level of the ends of the ries of 1 fifI }moullt steps by course of tifths , and to ) uuits .
Consequently whole difference of level of ends of erJes of fifths must be made up of ] ) steps made ) the ; each step in course of fifths must be of ) steps , each step in course of mits m be made up of .
In this manner , with a sufficient lpply of of ized keyboard of any order be ) Although systems of an be in manner , ill not case ( illl bo ) } common factor of ) be ided ) it is ) necessary that the two sses of steps should be to eaoh us 12 : VOL. XXVI .
Mr. H. C. Sorby on some Optical [ June 2 ] with facility\mdash ; simply becauss the large space coversd by related cannot be , in the general case , brought within reach of the hand .
any system can be demonstrated in this manner .
Keyboard of the Second Order .
The keyboard of the second lrnishes results of some interes It can be easily arranged according to the oing rules .
The liarity in the result is , that performance on a complete system of tl second order and first class , by means of it , is nearly as easy as perforn ance on systems of the first order by means of the keyboard former constructed .
The problem of representation and performance is solved both for the Hindoo system of 22 and for the system of 34 , tt interest of which has been already indicated .
Diagram II .
( p. 382 ) represents a portion of the keyboard of the secon order .
is a major ; whence the major thirds are better situate for the finger than on the first-order keyboard with positive systems ; the presencs of continuous rows of keys in all twelve divisions is som ' what less advantageous than in that arrangement .
is the minor triad .
In the general transformation of the order , transformation wit regard to colour ( white or black ) is not generally practicable .
Fc the most general purposes it would be necessary to have a sufficier supply of keys of both colours for every pattern ; for any particular cas the requirements are more limited .
June 21 , 1877 ( continued ) .
IX .
' On some hitherto Undescribed Optical Properties of Doubl !
Crystals.\ldquo ; \mdash ; Preliminary Notice .
By H. President of the Royal Microscopical and the Mineralogical Societies .
Received June 1877 .
In the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( vol. xxiv .
p. 393 ) Dr Royston-Pigott described a new refractometer to determine the inde ] of refraction of liquids and other substances by means of the displace meant of the focal point of an object seen through them a lov magnifying-power .
Another paper on the subject was communicated by him to the Royal Microscopical Society , and subsequently publishd

