Certain Results of Drying Non-sporing Bacteria .
127 present only in minute amounts .
Urease , by determining the resolution of the urea in an abnormal direction therefore serves a most important purpose .
In studying the phenomena , the mistake has been made hitherto of treating the changes attending the formation and destruction of urea from a point of view which has involved under-rating their complexity .
We venture to think that the peculiarities to which we call attention are not only noteworthy but should serve as a warning against the danger attending the attempt to formulate conclusions as to the nature of chemical changes without giving due weight to chemical considerations\#151 ; a practice too frequently followed in these days .
It is proposed to extend the inquiry .
[ The cost of this investigation has been in part met by a grant for which I am indebted to the Government Grant Fund of the Royal Society.\#151 ; H. E. A. ] Certain Results of Drying Non-spori Bacteria in a Charcoal Liquid Air Vacuum .
By S. G. Shattock , F.R.C.S. , and L. S. Dudgeon , F.R.C.P. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read March 14 , 1912 .
) The following experiments were undertaken with the object of ascertaining whether non-sporing bacteria , dried in vacuo and kept vacuo , would survive those dried in and kept in the air , or , on the contrary , whether they would die more rapidly .
The action of sunlight and of heat was tested , moreover , upon bacteria dried in vacuo and kept in vacuo , with a view of discovering how far such agencies might be lethal upon dried bacteria , if the latter were supposed present in a free state in interplanetary space .
In carrying out the work , we have had the invaluable advantage of Sir James Dewar 's help , for of the several methods of drying vacuo , by far the most efficient is that devised by him .
This method is so well known to physicists that it will be enough to state here , that after the air of the vessel is exhausted by means of an air pump , the glass connection with the pump is sealed off in the blowpipe flame , and the exhausted chamber is deprived of its remaining gases through a second outlet communicating with a bulb containing cocoanut charcoal ( previously freed from gases ) , 128 Messrs. S , G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Feb. 20 , which is submerged and kept in a Dewar vacuum flask of liquid air .
The use of mercury was avoided in producing the initial vacuum , in order to exclude the presence of mercury vapour , which might in various ways invalidate the results of the experiments .
The apparatus was stored in a dark room to eliminate the action of light , and for the same purpose metal foil was wrapped around the tubes during the process of exhaustion with the pump .
The charcoal at the temperature of liquid air has a remarkable capacity for gas absorption .
The action of this substance was maintained sometimes for three days , sometimes for five , during which time the vapour of water distilled continuously , and was condensed on the walls of the condenser at \#151 ; 195 ' C. whilst the gases were absorbed by the charcoal .
The way connecting the tube with the bulb of charcoal was then sealed off in the blowpipe flame , and the tubes were stored in light-tight photographic bags in a metal box , which was , furthermore , kept in a closed cupboard .
The possible ways in which the vacuum may suffer are ( 1 ) in sealing off the side outlet , by the evolution ' of gas from the heated glass ; ( 2 ) owing to the presence of microscopic fissures at the junctions of the apparatus , especially if many chambers are connected up with the same charcoal receptacle ; ( 3 ) by reason of the fact that glass is hygroscopic , and that even after a prolonged period of high exhaustion , water might fail to be removed , at the ordinary temperature , from the inner surface of the vacuum tube or from the glass slip inoculated with the organic film of peptone containing the micro-organism .
The vacuum tubes employed were stout test-tubes of soft glass , furnished with a side channel by means of which they were connected ( 1 ) with the exhaust pump , and ( 2 ) with the bulb of charcoal .
( See figure .
) The inoculations were made upon rectangular slips of thin glass ( No. 2 microscopic cover ) by means of a large platinum loop , the slips having been previously heated for one hour at 150 ' C. , in the Petri dish in which they were Fig. 1.\#151 ; A. Open end of test-tube , sealed off after the insertion of the inoculated slip .
B. Side tube , connected with exhaust pump , and also with glass bulb containing charcoal , etc. This is eventually sealed off in the blowpipe flame .
C. Slip of thin glass with dried bacterial film .
1912 .
] Certain Results of Drying Non-sporing 129 afterwards inoculated .
The immediate drying of the slips after the inoculation was carried out in the incubator at 37 ' C. , in which they were kept for about 15 minutes .
Some of the slips were , within the course of an hour or so , transferred to the tubes , from which the air was thereupon exhausted ; the rest were stored in the Petri dish in the dark .
The bacterial suspensions first used were made by adding boiled water to a recent agar or jelly slope culture ; all the later suspensions were cultures in peptone water ( with 1-per-cent , sodium chloride ) .
In order to test the vitality of the bacilli after drying , whether vacuo or in the air in the Petri dish , the slips were transferred to test-tubes of litmus glucose broth , and incubated for many days at 37 ' C. The broth tubes were proved to be sterile before use , by a preliminary incubation .
We may now proceed to detail the observations , and afterwards to comment on the results .
Bacillus coli .
\lt ; The first experiments were made upon this bacillus , on October 14 , 1910 .
One vacuum tube was sealed off after three full days ' connection with the charcoal tube , i.e. on the fourth day ; and a second on the 6th day , the vitality of the micro-organism being tested as above described .
In both cases it was dead .
The control air-dried film was also found to be dead on the 4th day .
Bacillus typhosus .
Vacuum tubes were sealed off on the 4th day and on the 6th .
The bacillus in both proved to be dead .
The control air-dried films were likewise dead on the 4th day .
The exact day on which the air-dried microorganism dies can be , of course , readily determined by transferring an inoculated slip daily to the broth medium .
Different strains or samples of the same bacillus vary within certain limits .
In an observation so made , using for the inoculation a suspension of B. typhosus in water from an agar slant of 24 hours ' growth , the bacillus died on the 4th day .
In four experiments made with a 24 hours ' growth in peptone water of B. typhosus , the micro-organism died , in one case , on the first day ( i.e. within 24 hours ) ; in two cases , on the 4th day ; and in the fourth case on the 5th day .
Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus .
This is more resistent to desiccation , both in vacuo and in the air , than either of the preceding .
In one experiment vacuum tubes were sealed off on VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. K 130 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Feb. 20 , the 4th day , and on the 6th .
The staphylococcus grew abundantly in both cases within 2.4 hours .
The control air-dried slips prepared at the same time grew equally rapidly after the same periods ; further controls proved to be alive on the 16th and 23rd days , but when again tested on the 40th day the microbe was dead .
By means of a second series of observations the survival of the staphylococcus in vacuo on the 4th and 6th days was confirmed , the control slips in this case- being likewise alive on the same days .
As it was thus clear that the staphylococcus would survive drying five days in vacuo , and also in the air , we proceeded to test its vitality for longer periods .
Vacuum tubes were sealed off after five days ' treatment with the charcoal and liquid air , and stored in the dark .
The micro-organism from the tubes proved to be alive on the 33rd day , and so was the control .
Further control slips were tested at different periods , and proved to be alive at nine weeks , four days ; death had occurred at twelve weeks , four days , the microbe having died at some date in the interval .
As the control was now dead , a vacuum tube was tested 21 days later ; the film proved to be sterile .
In this experiment the air-dried slips died at some date between 9 and 12 weeks ; those from the vacuum tubes died between 4 and 15 weeks .
( Two further vacuum tubes were^ tested at periods of 10 and 14 months ; the slips from both were sterile .
) Bacillus pyo The results obtained with this bacillus are particularly interesting .
Films of the micro-organism , prepared as usual from a 24 hours ' peptone water culture , proved to be alive on the 4th and 6th day when removed from vacuum tubes treated for these periods with charcoal and liquid air .
Control air-dried slips were likewise alive at the same dates .
The vitality was next tested for longer periods .
December 9 , 1910.\#151 ; A series of glass slips were inoculated .
One slip was transferred to each of three tubes , which were thereupon exhausted , and sealed off after five days ' treatment with charcoal and liquid air .
A control slip proved to be alive on the 6th day .
One vacuum tube was opened on the 46th day\#151 ; the bacillus proved to be alive ; a control film was at this date dead .
A second vacuum tube was opened on the 116th day ; the bacillus was still alive .
The third of the tubes was opened on June 30 ( seven months and seven days ) ; within 48 hours an abundant growth of the bacillus ( as confirmed by sub-culture ) had occurred .
1912.1 Certain Results of Drying Bacteria .
131 In confirmation of this remarkable longevity in vacuo , in a second set of observations , B. pyocyaneus was found to have remained alive from May 26 , 1911 , to December 16,1911 ; a period of exactly the same length as the above .
One slip was tested on June 1 , 1911 , and was found alive .
The growth obtained from the slip on December 16 was in every way characteristic .
Within 48 hours , the litmus glucose broth was uniformly turbid , and was decolorised except for a zone at the free surface , which retained a violet tint ; the top of the fluid was covered with a thin , unwrinkled , faintly greenish looking scum or zoogloea .
Sub-cultures carried to peptone water on December 18 showed within 24 hours general turbidity , and a delicate but well marked green coloration ; a sub-culture from this carried to an agar slant gave within 24 hours a full growth , which within 48 hours had produced a typical green pigmentation of the medium in the neighbourhood of the culture .
The longevity of this bacillus in vacuo is the more remarkable since the micro-organism somewhat rapidly dies in air-dried films .
Under the latter circumstances the date of death ( as tested by daily transferring a slip to a broth tube ) varies within certain limits ; but we have never found the microbe alive after the 9th day , Remarks .
Taking the results obtained by complete drying , two obvious conclusions will appear .
In the first place it is clear that the vulnerability of different bacteria varies within wide limits .
And in the second , as the vitality of B. pyocyaneus in vacuo is notably prolonged beyond that of air-dried slips , the prolongation can only be due to the absence of chemical changes which obtain in the air , but are absent in the vacuum .
In regard to the first of these two results we may provisionally hold that it implies a difference in the composition , or the molecular construction of the protoplasm .
It has a parallel in the difference of resistance to heat .
The thermophilic bacteria thrive at a temperature of 70 ' C. , whilst the common death point of other ( non-sporing ) forms , when suspended in fluid , ranges close about 60 ' C. The different resistance of different bacteria to drying in vacuo , and to\gt ; heat , indicates that the chemical constitution , or the molecular construction , of the protoplasm varies ; that protoplasm is not a definite chemical substance , but one of varying range .
The selection of particular body-cells by particular poisons is one proof of such a difference in the same organism .
It is probably correct , indeed , to hold that every functional difference amongst cells implies a protoplasmic k 2 132 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Feb. 20 , one .
Quot actiones tot protoplasmata .
And the same of bacteria , physiologically considered .
How long B.pyocyaneus will live in the dried state in vacuo is an interesting question , and we have a series of vacuum tubes sealed off to keep ( excluded from the light ) for protracted periods , with a view of testing it .
In the air-dried state B. pyocyaneus presents ho particular longevity .
Its death under these circumstances cannot be ascribed simply to its drying .
The film may absorb moisture at intervals according to the saturation of the atmosphere , and the bacillus may be killed by a recurrent process of oxidation .
Or dissociation may occur in some of the less stable constituents of the protoplasm .
In the vacuum tube oxidation would be excluded , but dissociation or autolysis might occur , and eventually prove fatal .
In the case of Staphylococcus pyogenes , which survives some weeks in vacuo and then dies , something of the latter kind may be assumed , by way of exclusion , to take place .
It may be pointed out that these differences in resistance to drying in vacuo cannot be ascribed to the chemical differences indicated by Gram 's staining reaction .
Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus ( Gram positive ) is , it is true , more resistent than B. coli or B. typhosus ( both Gram negative ) but the most resistent of all , B. pyocyaneus , is , like the least , Gram negative .
, The ordinary microscopic examination does not reveal any recognisable change in bacilli which have been long dried .
A dried peptone-water film of B. pyocyaneus , made November 26 , 1910 , and stored in the dark , in a Petri dish , showed , when stained with carbol fuchsin , and examined Jwith 1/ 12 immersion , on June 15 , 1911 , nothing in which it would differ from a recently made preparation .
And the same is true of Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus .
, A similar film of B. pyocyaneus made in July , 1911 , was examined in January , 1912 , in a hanging drop , which was prepared by wetting the dry film with germ-free distilled water , and transferring a loop of the suspension to a cover-glass .
The bacilli after imbibition of water were of full size , and perfectly normal in form .
' The Persistence of Vitality in Bacteria in the Dried State in vacuo , and the Question of their Resistance in this Condition to Physical Agencies .
The most fascinating problem in connection with the vitality of bacteria in vacuo is the possibility of their interplanetary life .
That certain bacteria can survive in a fully dried state in vacuo is as important a fact in this connection as that so many may be frozen at the temperature of liquid air ( \#151 ; 190 ' C. ) without being killed .
1912 .
] Certain Results of Drying Non-sporing Bacteria .
133 Particulate life , whether microscopic or ultra-microscopic , if free under interstellar conditions , would exist in vacuo , and , either in a dried state , or impregnated with water , it would be cooled at a temperature certainly as low as that of liquid air .
The external agencies adverse to life in such circumstances resolve themselves into the action of the solar rays : heat , light , ultra-violet , and the corpuscular radiations .
Heat .
If the inoculated slips of B. pyocyaneus in sealed vacuum tubes be submitted to the action of heat , the vulnerability of the bacillus to this agency is not found to be lessened .
It has long since been established that many bacteria , even of the non-sporing kinds , withstand a higher temperature in the dry state than in the wet .
Suspended in a fluid medium , B. pyocyaneus is killed by a temperature of 60 ' C. after an hour 's exposure .
In testing the effect of heat upon this bacillus in the dried state , we commenced with a temperature which is lethal to all non-sporing pathogenic bacteria , in order to ascertain whether its resistance vacuo , if exalted , was exalted in a pronounced degree .
July 20 , 1911.\#151 ; A vacuum tube containing an inoculated slip of B. pyocyaneus which had been sealed off on July 17 and kept in the dark was baked in the hot-air oven for'three hours , between 102 ' and 104 ' C. No growth occurred from the slip when transferred to litmus glucose broth and incubated at 37 ' C. A control slip , prepared on July 20 , and baked simultaneously for the same time in a test-tube , over which a second larger tube was inverted , for protection , likewise proved to be sterile .
\gt ; - In the following experiment , the air-dried films of were subjected to a temperature of 100 ' G. in a water bath , for considerably shorter periods .
January 6 , 1912.\#151 ; A series of slips were prepared from a 24 hours old peptone water culture of B. pyocyaneus in the usual manner .
Three were then transferred , each to a long sterilised test-tube of thick glass ; the tubes were thereupon sealed in the blowpipe flame by heating each at a considerable distance below the open end .
The three tubes were , in the next place , submerged by means of strips of lead in a vessel of warm water and boiled for 15 , 30 , and 60 minutes .
One end of the tube was cut off with a file , and the slip transferred to a tube of litmus glucose broth , and incubated at 37 ' C. After this , a control slip from the Petri dish was placed into another tube Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Feb. 20 , of the same medium and incubated with the rest .
No growth ensued in the case of any of the three heated slips ; the control gave a full growth of B. pyocyaneus within 48 hours .
January 13 , 1912.\#151 ; It being thus clear that the air-dried film of B. pyocyaneus is killed by 15 minutes ' heating at 100 ' C. , a vacuum tube containing a slip of this bacillus , which had been sealed off August 1 , 1911 , after the usual treatment , was boiled for 45 minutes .
The time selected was triple that of the minimum which had been found lethal in the case of the air-dried film .
The purpose of this was to ensure that the film was raised to the temperature of 100 ' C. , seeing that its heating in vacuo would be delayed , owing to the absence of gas convection , and could occur only by radiation , and conduction from the heated tube to the edges of the glass slip in contact with its inner surface .
After being boiled for 45 minutes , the tube was opened with the usual precautions , and the slip transferred to litmus glucose broth , and incubated at 37 ' C. A second vacuum tube was then opened as a control , and the contained slip transferred to another tube of the same medium ; the vacuum tube was one of four which had been sealed off at the same time , viz. , August 1 , 1911 ; the slips in these four tubes had been inoculated from the same peptone water culture of B. pyocyaneus .
The slip from the boiled tube proved to be sterile ; that from the control tube gave an abundant growth within 48 hours , which was identified by sub-culture as B. pyocyaneus .
Proceeding with temperatures lower than 100 ' C. , air-dried slips of B. pyocyaneus ( prepared as in all other cases , for the immediate occasion ) were treated in sealed tubes by submersion in water at 80 ' C. , after having been warmed for 15 minutes at the innocuous temperature of 40 ' C. One slip was heated for 30 minutes , one for 60 .
Both proved to be sterile .
The air-dried , unheated , control slip , which was transferred to broth after the completion of the heating of the others , gave a full growth .
By the same method it was found that temperatures of 76 ' C. and of 65 ' C. are lethal when maintained for an hour .
The results show that in the case of B. pyocyaneus the lethal temperature is practically the same , whether the micro-organism is subjected to it in the wet state or the dry .
.We terminated these observations , by heating a vacuum tube containing a slip of B. pyocyaneust sealed off August 1 , 1911 , for three hours at 65 ' C. in a water bath .
The film proved to be dead .
The control , unheated , film in another vacuum tube of the same batch ( August 1 , 1911 ) , tested on the same day , gave a typical and abundant growth within 48 hours .
It appears plainly , therefore , from these observations that the resistance of 1912 .
] Certain Results of Drying Non-scoring .
13 5 B. pyocyaneus to the action of heat is not heightened when the micro-organism is exposed to this agency in the dried state in vacuo .
Sunlight and TJltra-mold Rays .
The lethal agent of first importance , however , in connection with a supposititious interplanetary life in a free or unincluded condition , is sunlight .
As this reaches the deeper strata of the atmosphere , the ultra-violet rays are filtered out of it .
Notwithstanding this , its lethal properties in regard to bacteria have been long established ; even endospores are killed by it .
Is the dried B. pyocyaneus killed , in vacuo , by the action of sunlight ?
This question must be answered in the affirmative .
In the following observations the action of the sun 's heat was eliminated by submerging the tubes in a large shallow glass dish of water , by means of strips of lead wrapped round their ends .
The glass dish was raised some way from the ground by allowing its two ends to rest upon the edges of two stools .
The apparatus was exposed on a roof during the unusually bright weather of July and August , 1911 .
The inoculated glass slip was displaced by tilting the tube , to the centre of the latter , and in such a way that the flat surface lay upwards .
July 22 , 1911.\#151 ; A vacuum tube containing a slip of B. pyocyaneus , which had been sealed off on July 17 , 1911 , after three days ' treatment of the vacuum by means of charcoal and liquid air , was exposed , as described , from 11.15 a.m. for six hours , the sunlight being intense and not at any time interrupted .
The^ube was then opened , and the slip transferred to a tube of litmus dextrose broth .
No growth ensued .
July 20.\#151 ; A second vacuum tube , sealed off on July 17 , was exposed , as detailed , from 1 p.m. for four hours .
For portions of the time the sun was behind clouds .
July 21.\#151 ; The tube was a second time exposed ( after being stored in the dark ) from 11 a.m. for six hours , the sunlight being on this occasion intense and uninterrupted .
The slip was then removed and transferred to litmus glucose broth .
No growth ensued .
A control tube made by inserting an air-dried slip prepared from a peptone water culture on the morning of the experiment , July 20 , into a test-tube of stout glass and sealing the end in the blowpipe flame , was exposed for the same two occasions in the same dish of water : the slip , on being transferred to a tube of the same medium , viz. , litmus glucose broth , proved sterile .
Another control tube was exposed on July 20 for four hours ( sunshine interrupted ) , and the slip of B. pyocyaneus then transferred to a tube of litmus glucose broth ; it gave a characteristic growth .
136 Messrs. S. Gr .
Sha/ ttock and L. S. Dudgeon .
\#163 ; Feb. 20 As a comparable test of the action of sunlight upon pyocy emeus in the moist state , an agar slant from which the water of expression had gone , was inoculated , without disturbing the surface , with a 24 hours ' growth of the bacillus in peptone water .
The end of the tube was sealed in the blowpipe flame , and the tube was exposed on July 20 , in the same dish of water as used on that day for certain of the observations already recorded , for four hours ' sunshine ( interrupted ) .
The end of the tube was then removed , and the agar medium covered by pouring in litmus glucose broth ; the tube was thereupon plugged with sterilised wool .
A growth of the bacillus ( identified by sub-culture ) followed in this case as in that of the dried film exposed for the same time on the same day .
A second control made in precisely the same way upon an agar slant , from a 24 hours ' growth in peptone water , and exposed on July 21 for five and a-half hours ' uninterrupted sunshine ( from 11.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. ) , proved sterile , like the dried slip from the vacuum tube exposed to uninterrupted sunlight for six hours .
It is thus abundantly clear that bright sunlight is lethal within six hours to B. pyocyaneus in the dried state , in vacuo , and that the resistance of the dried bacillus to this agency is not materially exalted , if it is increased at all , .under the condition last stated .
The results show , in passing , that the view sometimes taken of the lethal .effect of sunlight upon bacterial cultures , viz. , that it is due to chemical decomposition of the medium on or in which the micro-organism is growing , is unnecessary to explain the result .
9 This being so , it was , perhaps , hardly necessary to test the lethal action of the short wave-lengthed ultra-violet rays upon the dried bacillus , except for the sake of confirming an obvious deduction by actual demonstration .
In the following experiment , the action of the ultra-violet rays was tested upon B. pyocyaneu8 , which had been dried in vacuo , but upon the slip after its removal from the vacuum tube , and in an atmosphere of nitrogen .
It may be noted here that the intense light generated by the apparatus is per se also lethal , but not within the same time .
This admits of being demonstrated by intercepting the passage of the ultra-violet rays by means of mica .
May 26 , 1911.\#151 ; A set of slips were inoculated with a 24 hours ' growth of B. pyocyaneus in peptone water .
A slip was transferred to each of four tubes , which were then exhausted , etc. , and kept for five days , connected with the bulb of charcoal surrounded with liquid air .
May 31.\#151 ; One of the tubes was opened , and the slip removed and exposed in an atmosphere of nitrogen for 15 minutes to the action of the ultra-violet 1912 .
] Certain Results of Drying Non-sporing .
137 rays The slip was then transferred to a tube of litmus dextrose broth , and incubated at 37 ' C. as usual .
The object of carrying out the exposure in nitrogen is to prevent the formation of ozone from the atmospheric oxygen , which would per se be lethal .
A second vacuum tube was then opened , the slip removed , and exposed in the same way to the rays for 30 minutes , after which it was transferred to a tube of litmus dextrose broth .
No growth occurred in either tube , proving that the action of the ultra-violet rays in an atmosphere of nitrogen had been lethal .
June 1.\#151 ; Another of the same batch of vacuum tubes was opened , and the slip transferred to litmus dextrose broth .
A growth of B. had occurred within 24 hours .
The details of the technique employed , which were devised by Sir James Dewar , were as follows : The air admitted to the vacuum tube , after being sealed off , was air which had been dried and deprived of particulate material , by passing it through a U-tube containing cotton-wool , immersed in liquid air .
The slip was transferred , with the film uppermost , to a capsule of German silver , into which , near the bottom , a side tube was soldered , this being connected with leaden tubing to a Dewar vessel containing liquid nitrogen , from which the gas was regularly discharged by slow ebullition throughout the experiment .
The German silver capsule was fitted with a lid of quartz , and placed in a beaker of pounded ice .
The lid of quartz was made to fit fairly tightly inside the upper part of the metal capsule , so that the nitrogen could only slowly escape from the chamber .
After two or three minutes to allow of the replacement of the air by the nitrogen , the ultra-violet rays were switched on .
The distance from the horizontal quartz tube , whence the rays were emitted from the arc passing between two mercury poles , to the top of the capsule was about 2 inches .
May 26.\#151 ; This observation was repeated in all details , upon slips of Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , which had been dried in vacuo for the five preceding days , the connection with the bulb of charcoal , etc. , being maintained throughout .
Four tubes were sealed off , and on the same day two were opened , the slips removed , and subjected , with the prepared side upwards , to the rays , for 15 and 30 minutes respectively .
After the exposure , each slip was transferred to a tube of litmus dextrose broth .
No growth took place in either tube .
June 1.\#151 ; A control vacuum tube sealed off on May 26 , after five days ' connection with the bulb of charcoal and liquid air , was opened , and the 138 .
Mr. C.-Russ .
Improved [ Feb. 21 , slip transferred to a tube of litmus dextrose broth .
G-rowth occurred within 24 hours .
So far as the possibility of interplanetary bacterial life is concerned , then , it is evident that bacteria in the fully dried state , if free in the interplanetary vacuum , would be killed by the solar light and ultra-violet rays .
And , as Sir James Dewar 's experiments have demonstrated that the ultra-violet rays will kill undried bacteria whilst in the frozen condition , at the temperature of liquid air ( \#151 ; 190 ' C. ) , there is little to support the hypothesis that the living protoplasm on the earth originally immigrated from interplanetary space in a free or unincluded condition\#151 ; that free , particulate life has entered the earth 's atmosphere as a result of light propulsion , from extra-mundane space .
An Improved Method for Opsonic Index Estimations , involving the Separation of Red and White Human Blood Corpuscles .
By Charles Buss , M.B. Bond .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.B.S. Eeceived February 21 , \#151 ; Bead March 14 , 1912 .
) Opsonin is the name given by Sir A. E. Wright to the substance in human blood which mainly influences phagocytosis .
In order to measure the opsonin , equal volumes of normal serum , of a bacterial emulsion , and of leucocytes are incubated to promote phagocytosis , and the number of bacteria visible in a random sample are counted in a stained film preparation .
By repeating the experiment with a pathological serum , a ratio is obtained which is known as the opsonic index .
The method , however , has been found inaccurate , and consequently fallen almost into disuse .
Drs. Greenwood and White pointed out the error of random sampling and , after elaborate mathematical analysis , adjudged the " liability to error " on a single count to occasionally exceed 20 per cent , from the mean or true figure .
Clearly , when the counts from two films are contrasted , the liability to error may be doubled .
This liability to error is due to the variation in content of different leucocytes in the same film ranging from 0 to 25 bacteria , and the resulting total in 50 leucocytes will vary according to the field in which the operator happens to make his count , i.e. , one rich in high or low contents .

