1874 .
] White Lines in the Solar Spectrum .
III .
" On White Lines in the Solar Spectrum/ * By J. H. N. Hennessey , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received December 8 , 1873 .
Extract from a Letter from Mr. Hennessey to Professor StoTces .
Mussoorie , Nov. 12 , 1873 .
" My dear Sir , \#151 ; As I cannot account for what is described and drawn in enclosed , I hasten to place the same before you , intending to look for the white linas in question so soon as I move down to a lower altitude .
Amongst others , no doubt KirchhofE closely examined the region in question , without notice of the lines ; and this only adds to my perplexity , unless what I see here is due ( 1 ) to altitude , or ( 2 ) is instrumental .
In the latter case I cannot account for the absence of the white lines at Dehra , where I examined the spectrum generally several times ; I must , however , add that without close examination and some experience , the lines might easily be passed over .
But if instrumental , to what are they due ?
I very much regret that the old spectroscope is not available at present [ it had been temporarily sent elsewhere for a special object ] to enable me to verify the phenomena ... ... ..* [ In the drawing sent by Mr. Hennessey , the intervals between the dark lines are coloured green , except in the place of the two white lines .
To transfer this distinction to a woodcut , an additional horizontal band has been added below , in which only those parts of the drawing which are left white appear as white , while in the upper part the white of the woodcut represents the white or green , as the case may be , of the original.\#151 ; Gr .
Gr .
S. ] Part of Solar Spectrum , drawn to Kirchobserved at N. W.Provinces , India , Lot .
N. 30 ' 28 ' , Long. E. 78 ' 4 ' ; Height 6700 feet above sea ( about ) , with the Spectroscope belonging to the Royal Society .
b On White Lines in the Solar Spectrum .
[ Feb. 26 , Note for diagram.-\#151 ; In course of studying the solar spectrum for atmospheric lines , with an excellent 3-prism ( new ) spectroscope belonging to the Royal Society , I gradually extended my search , begun at the red end , until on arrival at the region about b my attention was attracted by the fact that K 1657*1 by no means appeared as the strong line depicted in Kirchhoff 's map , Plate II .
On examining this region carefully , I was surprised to find the colourless lines shown in the diagram ; these lines , from want of a Inore appropriate name , I shall call white lines ( or spaces ) ; they cannot absolutely be described as bright lines , yet they closely resemble threads of white floss silk held in the light .
The spectroscope in use , with the most convenient highest-power eyepiece , presents images of about two thirds to seven ninths of those drawn in the diagram ; the former are exaggerated by reckoning to agree with Kirchhoffs millimetre scale ; it will therefore be readily understood that the white lines do not present striking objects in the spectroscope , especially about the time of sunset , when I happened first to notice them ; they are best seen about noon , when their resemblance to threads of white floss silk is very close ; but once seen , the lines in question can always be readily detected .
So far as my instrumental means permit , the wider line extends between K 1657*1 and K 1658*3 ; more accurately speaking , it falls short of the latter and rather underlies the former ; the narrower white line is underneath K 1650*3 , sensibly more of the'former appearing beyond the edge towards violet of the latter , which presents the quaint look of a black line on a white surface enclosed in a green band .
These are the only white lines in the spectrum from extreme red to F ; they are not bright ( or reversed lines ) , so far as I have had opportunity to judge .
Were they bright lines , the question would arise , why these alone should be reversed at 6700 feet above sea .
Like the black lines the white lines grow dim and disappear with the slit opened wide .
As seen here , K 1657 1 is sensibly weaker than K 1667*4 , whereas Kirchhoff assigns 5 to the former and only 3 a to the latter .
A Photograph of the Moon , sent by the Rev. Dr. Robinson , F.R.S. , taken with the Great Melbourne Equatorial , was exhibited ; also a lithograph of the Nebula in Argo , made from eye-observations with the same instrument .

