]\gt ; Prof. G. G. Stokes .
Discussion of the Results ( 8 .
) Another , better , method was used .
Two frogs , whose had been destroyed as before , were taken , and into the dorsal phatic sac of each a small drop of 5 per cent. strychnine was A minute afterwards only .
centim. of 10 per cent. ( 3 was injected into one frog ( A ) , the other ( B ) remaining as before .
After fifteen minutes ( A ) gave no signs of strychnine while ( B ) gave distinct signs .
After twenty minutes ( A ) gave very faint reflex action ; but ( B ) , on being touched , went into tetanus .
After thirty minutes ( A ) gave no signs of reflex while ( B ) went into strong tetanic convuIsions on simply touching table .
These results lasted over an hour ; then into ( B ) of 10 per cent. lutidine was injected , and in ten minutes the of the strychnine began to pass off , and in thirty minutes was gone , the fro not even giving signs of reflex action .
Again , in some experiments strychnine was injected into one ( prepared as before ) , and strychnine with lutidine into nother .
After twemty-four hours the first went into strong tetanic convulsions on touching , but never the latter ; that of the former after the injecbion of the alkaloid .
From our experiments we hope we have made it clear that lutidine causes a distinct increase in the tonicity of both cardiac and voluntary muscular tissue , also a slowing in the rate of the heart 's beat , and that it arrests the inhibitory power of the vagus .
That by its action upon the nerve cells of the spinal cord , it , in the place , lengthens the time of reflex action , and then arrests that function ; finally , that it is successfully antagonistic to strychnine in its action upon the spinal cord .
In conclusion , we feel much pleasure in acknowledging our grateful thanks to Dr. Michael Foster , both for his kind help and happy suggestions , which have been of great assistance to us in our investi .
gations .
II .
" " Discussion of the Results of some Experiments with Whirled Anemometers By Professor G. G. STOKIIS , Sec. R.S. Received Apri126 , 1881 .
In the course of the year 1872 , Mr. R. H. Scott , F.R.S. , suggested to the MeteoroIogical Committee the desirability of carrying out a series of experiments on anemometers of diflerent patterns .
This suggestion was approved by the Committee , and in the course of same year a grant was obtained by Mr. Scott from the Government Grant administered by the Royal Society , for the purpose of defraying.ths expenses of the investigation .
The experiments were not , however , 1881 .
] of some Experiments with Whirted Anemometers .
arried out by Mr. Scott himself , but were entrusted to Mr. Jeffsry , then Superintendent of the Kew Observatory , and YlIr .
G. M. Whipple , then First Assistant , the present Superintendent .
The results have never hitherto been published , and I was not aware of their nature till on making a suggestion an anemometer of the Kew standard pattern should be whirled in the open air , with a view of trying that mode of determining its proper factor , Mr. Scott informed me of what had already been done , and wrote to Whipple , requesting him to place in my hands the results of the most complete of the experiments , namely , those carried on at the Crystal Palace , which I accordingly obta , ined from him .
The progress of the enquiry may be gathered from the following extract from Mr. Scott 's report in returning the unexpended balance of the grant .
" " The comparisons of the instruments tested were first instituted in the garden of the Kew Ob@ervatory .
This locality was found to ffiord an insufficient exposure .
" " A piece of ground was then rented and enclosed within the Old Deer Park .
The experiments here showed that there was a considerable difference in the indications of anemometers of different sizes , but it was not possible to obtain a sufficient range of velocities to furnish a sahsfactory comparison of the instruments .
Hixperiments were finally made with a rotating apparatus , a merry-go-round , at the Crystal Palace , which led to some results similar to thoso obtained by exposure in the Deer Park .
" " The subject has , however , been taken up so much more thoroughly by Drs. Dohrandt and Thiesen ( vide Repertorium fur Meteorologie vols .
iv and v ) and by Dr. Robinson in Dublin , that it seems unlikely the balance would ever be expended by me .
I , therefore , return it with many thanks to the Government Grant Committee .
" " The results obtained by me were hardly of sufficient value to be communicated to the Soeiety On examining the records , it seemed to me that they were well deserving of publication , more especially as no other experiments of the same kind have , so far as I know , been executed on an anemometer of the Kew standard pattern .
In 1860 Nfr .
Glaisher made experiments with an anemometer whirled round in the open air at the end of a long horizontal pole , the anemometer was of the pattern employed at the Royal Observatory , with hemispheres of inches diameter and arms of ) inches , measured axis to the centre of a cup , and so -was considerably smaller than the Kew pattern .
The experiments of Dr. Dohrandt and Dr. Robinson * ' Greenwich hIagnetical and Meteorological qervations ) .
li .
172 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
Discussion of the Resulfs were made in a building , which has the advantage of sheltering anemometer from wind , which is always more or less fitful , but disadvantage of creating an eddying vorticose movement in the mass of air operated on ; whereas in the ordinary employment of aneznometer the eddies it forms are carried away by the wind , and same is the case to a very great extent when an anemometer whirled in the open air in a gentle breeze .
though Dr. Robinson employed among others an anemometer of the Kew pattern , his experiments and those of Mr. Jeffery are not duplicates of each other , even independently of the fact that the axis of the anemometer was vertical in Mr. Jeffery 's and horizontal in Dr. experi .
ments ; so that the greater completeness of the latter does not cause them to supersede the former .
In Mr. Jeffery 's experiments the amemometers operated on were mounted a little beyond and above the outer edge of one of the steam merry-go-rounds in the grounds of the Crystal Palace , so as to be as far as practicable out the way of any vortex which it might create .
The distance of the axis of the anemometer from the axis of the " " merry\ldquo ; being known , and the number of revolutions ( n ) of the latter during an experiment counted , the total space traversed by the anemometer was known .
The number of apparent revolutions of the anemometer , that is , the number of revolutions relatively to the merry , was recorded on a attached to the neter , which was read at the beginning and end of each experiment .
As the machine would only go round one way , the cups had be taken off and replaced in a reverse position , in order to reverse the direction of revolution of the anemometer .
The true number of revolutions of the anemometer was , of course , , or , according as the rotations of the anemometer and the machine were in the same or ) osite directions .
The horizontal motion of the over the whirling machine during any experiment was determined from observations of a dial anemometer with -inch cups on 8-inch arms , which was fixed on a wooden stand in the same horizontal plane as that in which the cups of the experimental instrument revolved , at a distance estimated at about 30 feet from the outside of he whirling frame .
The motion of the centres of the cups was deduced from the readings of the dial of the fixed anemometer at the beginning and end of each experiment , the motion of the air being assumed as usual to be three times that of the cups .
The experiments were naturally made on fairly calm days , still the effect of the wind , though small , is not insensible .
In defauIt of further ormation , we must take its velocity as equal to the eau velocity during the experiment .
Let V be the velocity of the anemometer ( i.e. , of its that of the wind , the angle between the direction of motion of the of some Experiments with Whirted Anemometers .
and that of the wind .
Then the velocity of the anemorelatively to the wind will be\mdash ; mean effect of the wind in a revolution of the merry will be according as we suppose the moment of inertia of the very small or very great .
If we suppose it very small , the anemometer may be supposed to be moving at any moment at the rate due to the relative velocity at that moment , and therefore the mean velocity of rotation of the cups in one revolution of the merry will be that corresponding to the mean relative velocity of the anemometer and the air .
If , as is practically the case , be small as compared with V , we may expand ( a ) in a series according to ascending powers of W. All the odd powers will disappear in taking the mean , and if we neglect the fourth and higher powers we shall have for the mean so that is the small correction to be added to the measured velocity of the anemometer in order to correct for the wind .
On the other hand , if the moment of inertia of the emometer be taken as very great , the rate of rotation of the cups during a revolution of the merry will be sensibly constant .
If be the ocity of the anemometer relatively to the air , the velocity of the centre of one of the cups , and if we suppose the rotation of the anemometer resisted by a force of which the moment is , then , according to Dr. Robinson 's researches , we have approximately In the present case friction is not taken into account , and instead of we must take the moment of the effective moving force .
Furthermore , it appears from the experiments of ) .
Robinson , in Dublin , that the observations were almost as well satisfied by taking the first two terms only of the above expression for as by taking all three , and this simplification may be employed with abundantly sufficient accuracy in making the small correction for the wind .
We have , therefore\mdash ; where V ' is given by .
In order that the anemometer may be neither accelerated nor retarded from one revolution of the merry to another , the mean effective force must be nil ; and taking the eans of both sides of the above equation , observing that , in conseuence of the supposed largeness of the moment of inertia , is 174 Prof. G. .
Stokes .
liis of the Results sensibly constant during one revolution of the merry , we have the approximate value of the mean of V ' or ( a ) used\mdash ; But if be the constant velocity of air relatively to the anemometer which would make the cups turn round at the same rate , we have similarly\mdash ; Eliminating BvfA , between these two equations we get\mdash ; , and as the fourth and higher powers of been neglected all along , we get from the last\mdash ; ( ) , so that , on this supposition , the mean correction for the wind is , or three times the correction of the former supposition .
The mean value of the ladical ( a ) is given by an elliptic function ; but even in an extreme case among the experiments , when the ratio of the velocity of the wind to that of the anemometer is as great as 3 to 5 , the error of the approximate expression amounts only to mile an hour , which may be quite disr garded .
The error in for the determination of instead of ( v ) is of about similar amount .
Three anemometers were tried , namely , one of the old Kew andard pattern , one by Adie , and Kraft 's portable anemometer .
Their dimensions will be found at the heads of the respective tables below .
With each anemometer the experiments were made in three groups , with high , moderate , and low velocities respectively , averaging about 28 miles an hour for the high , 14 for the moderate , and 7 for the low .
JDach group again was divided into two subordinate groups , according as the cups were direct , in which case the directions of rotation of the merry and of the anemometer were opposite , or reversed , in which case the directions of the two rotations were the same .
The data furnished by each experiment were : the time occupied the experiment , the number of revolutions of the merry , the number of apparent revolutions of the anemometer , given by the difference of of the dial at the beginning and end of the experiment , and the space@ passed over by the wind , deduced from the difference of readings of the fixed anemometer at the beginning and end of the experiment .
Experiments with Tt hirled Anemometers .
of the experiment was , of course , to compare the mean velocity of the centres of the cups with the mean velocity of the air relatively to the anemometer .
It would have saved some numerical calculation to have mpared merely the spaces passed through during the experiment ; but it seemed better to exhibit the velocities in miles per hour , so as to experiments more readily comparable with one another , and with those of other experimentalists .
In the reductions I 4-figure logarithms , so that the last decimal in in the tables cannot quite be trusted , but it is retained to match the correction for , which it seemed desirable to exhibit to mile .
On reducing the experiments with the low velocities , I found the results extremely irregular .
I was subsequently informed by Mr. Whipple , that the machine could not be regulated at these low velocities , for which it was never intended , and that it sometimes went round fast , sometimes very slowly .
He considered that the experiments in this group were of little , if any , value , and that they ought to be rejected .
They were besides barely half as numerous as those of the moderate group .
I have accordingly thought it best to omit them ether .
In the following tables the first column gives the group , for high velocities , for moderate ; the subordinate group , \mdash ; standing for rotation of the anemometer opposite to that of the machine , rotations in the same direction , and lastly the reference number of the experiment in each subordinate group .
gives the duration of the experiment in minutes ; the number of revolutions of the machine ; the number of apparent revolutions of the anemometer ; the space passed over by the natural wind , in miles .
These form the data .
From them are calculated : , the velocity of the anemometer , in miles per hour ; , the velocity of the wind ; the mean of the two corrections to be added to V on account of the wind , according as we adopt one or other of the extreme hypotheses as to the moment of inertia of the anemometer , namely , that it is very small or very large .
The actual correction will be half the number in this column on the first supposition , and once and -half on the second .
denote the velocity of the anemometer , or , in other words , of the artificial wind , corrected for the natural wind on these two ) ositions respectively , so tLat the last two columns glve 100 times the ratio of the velocity to the true velocity , or registered as a percentage of the true , the velocity meaning that dduceil from the velocity of the cups oa employing the factor 3 .
The dials of the first two anemometers read only to 10 which is the reason why all the numbers end with a The mean errors exhibited in the above table show no great difference according as we suppose the moment of inertia of the anemometer small or large in correcting for the wind .
There appears to be a slight indication , beyond what may be merely casual , that the errors are a little greater on the latter supposition than on the former , which is what we should rather expect ; for an anemometer would get pretty well under way in a fraction of a revolution of the whirling instrument .
However , the difference is so small that it will suffice to take the mean of the two as the mean error belonging to the particular anemometer , class of velocity , and character of rotation under consideration .
From the mean errors we may calculate nearly enough , by the usual formulae , the probable errors of the various mean percentages for rotations opposite and alike .
The probable errors of these mean percentages come out as follows:\mdash ; Kew , for high velocities ; for moderate velocities .
Adie , , , , , , , Kraft , , , , , \ldquo ; These probable errors are so small that it appears that for the high and even for the moderate velocities the experiments are extremely trustworthy , except in so far as they may be affected by syslematic sources of error .
If we compare the registered percentages of the true velocity of It may be noliced that the difference is greatest for the Kew , in which the ratio of to is greatest , denoting the radius of the arm of the anemometer , and the distance of i\eth ; C axis from the axis of revolution of the machine , and appears to be least ( when allowance is made for the two anomalous experiments in the group " " Adie for the Kraft , for which is least .
In the Kraft , indeed , the differences are roughly equal to the probable errors of the means .
In these whirling experiments is taken small , and we might expect the correction to be made on account of the finiteness of to be expressible in a rapidly converging series according to powers of , say\mdash ; We may , in imagination , pass from the case of -otations opposite to that of rotations alike , by supposing taken larger and larger in successlve experiments , altering the angular velocity of olution so as to preserve the same linear velocity for the anemometer , and supposthe increase continued until changes sign in passing through infinity , and is ultimately reduced in magnitude to what it was at first .
The ideal case of is wha6 we aim at , in order to represent the motion of a fixed anemometer acted on by perfectly uniform wind by that of an anemometer uniformly impelled in a rectilinear direction in perfectly still air .
We may judge of the magnitude of the leading term in the above correction , provided it be of an odd order , by that of the difference of the results for the two directions of rotation .
Unless , therefore , we had reason to believe that were or at least very small compared with , we should infer that the whole correction for the finiteness is very small , and that it is practically eliminated by taking the mean of the resuIts for rotationti opposite and rotations alike .
of some Experiments with Whirled Anemometers .
We may accept , therefore , the mean as not only pretty well from casual irregularites which would disappear in the mean of infinite number of experiments , but also , most probably , from the of the representation of a ilinear motion of the by mohon in a ircle of the magnitude actually employed the experiments .
Before discussing further the conclusions to be drawn from the obtained , it will be well to consider the possible influence of sources of error .
1 .
Friction.\mdash ; No measure was taken of the amount of friction .
nor any special appliances used to reduce it ; the anemometers were in the merry just as they are used in actual istration .
Friction arising from the weight is guarded against as far as may be in the ordinary mounting , and what remains of it would act alike in the ordinary use of the instrument and in the experiments , and as far as this goes , therefore , the experiments would faithfully represent the instrument as it is in actual use .
But tho bearin of am anemometer have ] to sustain the lateral pressure of the wind , which in a wind is very considerable ; and the construction of the bearing has to be attended to in order that this may not produce too much friction .
So far the whirled instrument is in the same condition as the fixed .
But besides the friction arising from the pressure of the artificial wind , apressure which acts in a direction tangential to the circular path of the whirled anemometer , there is the pressure arising from the centrifngal force .
The highest velocity in the experiments was about 30 miles an hour , and at this rate the centrifugal force would be about three the weight of the anemometer .
This pressure would considerably exceed the former , at right angles to which it acts , and the two would compound into , one equal to the square root of the sum of their squares .
The resulting ction would exceed a good deal that arising from the pressure of the wind in a fixed anemometer with the same velocity of wind ( natural or artificial ) , and would sensiblv reduce the velocity registered , and accordingly raise the coefficient which Dr. Robinson denotes by , the ratio , namely , of the velocj of the wind to the velocity of the centres of the cups .
It may be noticed that the collected in the table on p. 179 , are very distinctly lower for the moderate yel cities than for the high velocities .
Such an effect would be produced by friction ; but how far the result would be modified if the extra friction due the centrifugal force were got rid of , and the whirled anemometer thus assimilated to a fixed anemometer , I have not the means of judging , nor again how far the percentages would be still further raised if friction were got rid of altogether .
Perhaps the best way of diminishing friction in the suppOrt of an anemometer is that devised and employed by Dr. Robinson , in which Prof. G. G. Stokes .
Discussion of the Results the anemometer is supported near the top on a set of sphsres of metal contained in a box with a horizontal bottom and vertical which supports and confines tbem .
For vertical support , this to leave nothing to be desired , but when a strong lateral pressure to be supported as well as the weight of the instrument , it seems me that a slight modification of the mode of support of the balls be adopted with advantage .
When a ball presses on the bottom vertical side of its box , and is at the same time pressed down by horizontal disk attached to the shaft of the anemometer which on the balls , it revolves so that the instantaneous axis is the joining the points of contact with the fixed box .
But if the force of the wind presses the shaft against the ball , the ball simply roll as the anemometer turns round , but there is a amount of rubbing .
This , however , may be obviated by giving the surfaces where ball is in contact other than a vertical or horizontal direction .
Let AB be a portion of the cylindrical shaft of an anemometer ; , the axis of the shaft ; EFGHI , a section of the fixed box or containing the balls ; LMN , a section of a conical surface fixed to shaft , by which the anemometer rests on its balls ; FIKIsI , a section one of the balls ; , the points of contact of the ball with the box ; NI , the point of contact with the supporting cone ; , the point contact or all but contact of the ball with the shaft .
The ball is supposed to be of such size that when the anemometer simply rests on the balls by its own weight , being turned perhaps by a gentle wind , there are contacts at the points , while at the ball and shaft are separated by a space which may be deemed infinitesimal .
ateraJ pressure from a stronger wind will now bring the shaft into contact with the ball at the point also , so that the box on one hand and the shaft with its appendage on the other , will bear on the ball at four points .
The surface of the box as well as that on the cone LN being supposed to be one of ution round , those four points will be of some Experiments with Whirled .
183 in a plane through , which will pass of course through centre of the ball .
If the ball rolls without rubbing at any no of the four ints as the anemomeler turns round , its lnstantaneous axis must be line the points of contact , , with the fixed box .
But at and likewise there is nothing but rolling , the instantaneous motion of the ball may be thought of as one in which it moves as if it were rigidly connected with the shaft and its appemdage , combined with a rotation LNAB supposed fixed .
For the two latter motions the instantaneous axes are , respectively .
Let MK produced cut CD in O. Then sincs the instantaneous motion is compounded of rotations roun wo axes pass ng two axes assing through , the instantaneous axis must pass through O. But this axis is ere ore , .
Theref FI must pass through O. Hence the two lines FI , intersect the axis of the shaft in the same point , which is the condition to be satisfied in that the ball may roll without rubbing , even though impelled laterally by a force sufficient to cause the side of the shaft to bear on it .
The size of the balls and the inclinations of the surfaces admit of considerable latitude subject to the above condition .
The arrangement might suitably be chosen something like that in the figure .
It to me that a ring of balls constructed on the above principle would form a very effective upper upport for an anemometer whirled with its axis vertical .
PossibJy the balls might get crowded together on the outer side by the effect of centrifugal force .
This objection , should it be found to be an objection , would not of course apply to the proposed system of mounting in the case of a fixed anemometer .
Below , the shaft would only require to be protected from lateral motion , which oould be done either by friction wheels or by a ring of balls constructed in the usual manner , as there would be only three points of contact .
2 .
Influence on the Anemometer of its own \mdash ; By this I do not mean the influence which one cup experiences from the wake of its predecessor , for this occurs in the whirling in almost exactly same way as in the normal use of the instrumenl , but the mobion of the air which remains at any point of the coul .
of the anemometer 111 consequence of the disturbance of air by the anemometer when it was in that neighbourhood in the next preceding and the still earliel revoIutions of the whirling instrument .
It seems to me that in the open air where the air impelled by the cups is free to move into expanse of the iustead of being confined by the walls of a building , this must be but small , more especially as the wake would tend to be carried away by what little wind there might be at the time .
On making some enquiries from Mr. Whipple as to a possible vorticose movement created in the through which the )lemometer passed , he wrote as follows : \mdash ; ' ' I feel VOL. XXXII .
184 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
Discussion of the Results [ May confident that under the circumstances the tangential motion of the at the level of the cups was so small as not to need consideration the disctlssion of the results .
As in one or two points of its the anemometer passed close by some smau trees in full leaf , should have observed any eddies or artfficial wind had it existed , I am sure we did not 3 .
Influence of the riation of the Wind ; first , rvhich are not Rapid.\mdash ; During the 20 or 30 minutos that an lasted , there would of course ) numerous fluctuations in the of the wind , the mean result of which is alone recorded .
The of the changes ( by which expression it is not intended to assert they were in any sense regularly periodic ) , might be a good greater than that of the melry , or might be comparatively short .
the high velocities , at any rate , in which one revolution took three or four seconds , the supposition that the period of the was large compared with one revolution is probably a good nearer the truth than the supposition that it is small .
On the former supposition , the correction for the wind during or three revoIutions of the merry would be giveu by the already employed , taking for its value at the time .
Consequently the total correction ] be given by the formulae already used , if substitute the mean of for the square of mean W. The former necessarily greater than the latter ; but how mucb , we cannot without knowing the actu variations .
We should probably make estimate of the effect of the variations , if we supposed velocity of the wind twice the mean velocity during ] the duration of the experiment , and nothing at all during the remainder .
On supposition , the mean of would be twice the square of mean and the correchion for tho wind would be doubled .
At the high velocities of revolution , the whole correction for the wind is so very , that the uncertainty arising from variation as above explained is of little tance , and even for the moderate velocities it is not rious .
4 .
fluence of Rapid Variafi , ons of the Wind .
Variations of which the period is a good deal less that of the revolutions of the whirling instrument act in a very different nner .
The smallness of the corrections for the wind hitherto employed depends on the circumstance that with uniform wind , or even with )xiable wind , when the period of variation is a good deal than that of revolution of the merry , the tel.ms depending on the first power of , which letter is here used to denote the momentary velocity of the wind , disappear in the mean of a revolution .
This is not the oase when a particular velocity of wind belongs only to a particular part of circle described by the anemometer in ono revolution .
In this case there will in general be an ontstanding eifect depending on the first power of of some Experiments with hirled Anemometers .
185 will be considerably larger than that depending on .
Thus the velocity of whirling to be 30 miles an hour , and the velocity of the wind 3 miles an hour ; the correction for wind supposed uniform , or if variable , then with not very rapid will be comparable with 1 per cent. of the whole ; whereas , rapid variations , the effect in any one revolution may be comwith 10 per cent. There is , however , this impoltant difference the two : that whereas the correction depending on the square a positive residue , however many experiments be made , the depending on the first power tends uItimately to disappear , there be some cause tending to make the average velocity of the different for one azimuth of the instrument from what is for another .
Thisleads to the consideration of the following consource of error .
5 .
Influence of Shelter of the Instrume the merry-go-round at the Crystal Palace , I found it mostly by trees coming pretty near it , but in one direction it was by a broad open walk .
The consequence is , that the may have been unequally sheltered in different parts of ular course , and the circumstances of partial shelter may have according to the direction of the .
This would be liable leave an uncompensated effect depending on the first power of W. do not think it probable that any large error was thus introduced , it seemed necessary to point out that an error of the kind may existed .
The eifect in question would be eliminated in the long run if the instrument were capable of reversion , and the experiments made alterrIately with the in one direction , and the For then , at any particular point of the course at which the was more exposed to wind than on the average , the wind tend to increase the velocity of rotation of the anemometer for direction of revolntion of the whirling instrument just as much , as to diminish it for the other .
Mere reversion of the has no tendency to eliminate the error arising from unequal exin different parts of the course .
And even when the whirlino is capable of reversion , it is only very slowly that the arising from partial shelter is eliminated compared with that of in the wind ; of those irregularities , that is to say , which on the first power of W. For these irregularities go changes a very great number of times in the course of an exlasting perf ) half an hour ; whereas , the effect of partial acts the same way all through one experiment .
It is very therefore , that in any whirling experiments carried on in the air , the condition of the whirling instrument as to exposure or should be the same all round .
186 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
Discusnion of the Results The trees , though taller than the merry when I visited the last year , were but young , and must have been a good the time that the experiments were made .
Mr. Whipple does think that any serious error is to be apprehended from exposure of anemometer during one part of its course and shelter during From a discussion of the foregoing experiments , it seems to me the following conclusions may be drawn:\mdash ; 1 .
That , at least for high winds , the mothod of obtainin the for an anemometer , which consists in whirling the instrument in open air is capable , with proper precautions , of yielding very resuIts .
2 .
That the factor varies materially with the pattern of the meter .
Among those tried , the anemometers with the larger registered the most wind , or in other words required the lowest to give a correct result .
3 .
That with the large Kew pattern , which is the one adopted the Meteorological Office , the register gives about 120 per cent. of truth , requiring a factor of about , instead of 3 .
Even is bably a little too high , as friction would be introduced by the fugal force , beyond what occurs in the normal use of the instrument .
4 .
That the factor is probably higher for moderate than for velocities ; but whether this is solely due to friction , the do not allow us to decide .
Qualiatively considered , these results agree well with those of experimentalists .
As the facto depends so much on the pattern anemometel , it is not easy to find other results with which to the actual numbers obtained , except in the case of the Kew The results obtained by Dr. Robinson , by rotating an anemometer this pattern without friction purposely applied , are given at pp. and 799 of the " " Phil. Trans for 1878 .
The mean of a few with velocities of about 27 miles an hour in still air a , instead of , as deduced from Mr. Jeffery 's experimenffi .
special antifriction appliances were used by Dr. Robinson , the in Mr. Jeffery 's experiments was probably a little .
If were the case , the factor ought to come out a little higher } in Bobinson 's experiments , which is just what it does .
As the of the experiments were widely different with respcct to vorticose motion of the air produced by the action of the meter in it , we may I think conclude that no very serious error is be apprehended on this account .
In a later paper Phil. Trans for 1880 , p. 1055 ) , Dr. has determined the factor for an anemometer among of Kew pattern by a totally diflerent method , and has obtain considerably larger than those given by the former method .
the limiting value of the factor corresponding to very of some Experiments with Whirled mometers .
is given at p. 1063 as , whereas the limiting value obby the { ormer method was only .
Dr. Robinson has a preference for the later resuIts .
I confess I have always disposed to place greater reliance on the resuIts of the Dublin which were carried ont by a far more direct method , in I cannot see any flaw likely to account so great a difference .
be interesting to try the second method in a more favourlocality .
I take this opportunity of putting out some considerations respectthe general formula of the anemometer , which may perhaps not devoid of interest .
The problem of the anemometer may be stated to be as follows : \mdash ; a uniform wind with velocity act on a cup anemometer of glven causing the cups to revolve with a velocity , referred to the of the cups , the motion of the cups being retarded by a force of ; it is required to as a function of and having any value from , corresponding to the ideal case of a frictionanemometer , to some limit , which is just sufficient to keep the from turning .
I will refer to my appendix to the former of Robinson 's papers Phil. Trans for 1878 , p. 818 ) , for the for that is equal to multiplied by a function .
Let if we regard and as rectangular co-ordinates , we have to determine the form of the curve , lying within the positive quadrant , which is defined by those co-ordinates .
We may egard the problem as included in the more general pro- xperiments with Whirled Anemometers .
blem of determining as a function of V and , where is but may be of any magnitude and sign , and therefore , V Negative values of meau , of course , that the cups instead of retarded by friction , are acted on by an impeJling force ming go faster than in a frictionless anemometer , and values greater imply a force sufficient to send them round with the concave foremost .
Suppose now to be so large , positive or negative , as to make great that may be neglected in comparison with it , then we think of the cups as whirled round in quiescent air in the positive usual direction when is negative , in the negative direction when is greater than .
When is sufficientIy large the resistance may taken to vary as .
For equal velocities it is much greater the concave side goes foremost , than when the rotation is the way .
For air impinging perpendicularly on a hemispherical Dr. Bobinson found that the resistance was as nearly as possibly times as great when the concave side was directed to the wind when the convex side was turned in that direction .
When the is at rest and the cups are whirled round , some little difference be made by the wake of each cup aflecting the one that Still we cannot be very far wrong by supposing the same 4 to 1 , to hold good in this case .
When is large enough negative , may be taken to vary as , say to be equal to Similarly , when is large enough and positive , may be taken to , where in accordance with the experiment referred to , be about equal to .
Hence we have nearly\mdash ; , when is positive and very large ; , , negave Hence if we draw the semi-parabola OAB corresponding to the tion in the quadrant , and the semi-paraboIa OCD a latus lectum four times as great in the quadrant , our at a greab distance from the origin must follow the OAB in the quadrant , and the parabola OCD in the , and between the two it will have some flowing form such PNMK .
There must be a point of inflexion somewhere between and , not improbably within the positive quadrant .
In urhood of this point the curve NM would hardly differ a straight line .
Perhaps this may be the reason Dr. experiments in the paper published in the " " Phil. Trans for were so nearly represented by a straight line .
course must be supposed not to be so large as to be comparable with velocity of sound , sinoe then the resistance to a body impelled through air , or air impinging on it , no longer varies as the square of velocity .
" " Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy vol. xxu ,

