165 The Mobilities of the Ions produced by Rontgen Rays Gases and Vapours .
Bv E. M. Wellisch , M.A. ( Sydney ) , Emmanuel College , Cambridge ; Barker Graduate Scholar of the University of Sydney .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 19 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 21 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) The velocities of the positive and negative ions produced by Rontgen rays in 4 gases and 15 vapours have been measured at normal temperatures over a wide range of pressures and under different electric intensities .
Langevin 's direct null method was employed throughout .
For a constant pressure the velocity of the ion was found to vary as the electric intensity .
It was found that , in general , the mobility ( k ) of the ion varied inversely as the pressure ( p ) .
In the case of nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide there was a slight tendency for the product to increase both for the positive and negative ions as the pressure was reduced below about 7 cm .
of mercury .
In the case of ethyl chloride there was a marked tendency for the product pk to decrease as the vapour approached the saturated state ; there is reason to believe that this tendency for pk to decrease would appear in the case of all the vapours in the neighbourhood of the saturated state .
In the case of vapours there was , in general , little difference in the values of the positive and negative mobilities .
The mobility of the positive ion was found greater than that of the negative for aldehyde , ethyl alcohol , aceton , sulphur dioxide , ethyl chloride , pentane , ethyl acetate , methyl bromide , and ethyl iodide .
There appeared to be no direct relation between mobilities and molecular weights ; the smaller mobilities invariably belonged to gases possessing high critical temperatures ( the vapours ) ; the larger mobilities to gases with low critical temperatures .
From the kinetic theory of gases an expression has been deduced for the mobility of an ion moving through a gaseous medium under the influence of an electric field .
This expression takes into account the effect of the charge carried by the ion on its mean free path and involves only known physical -constants of the gas .
As a result of the theoretical considerations , it appears that the N 2 Prof. H. J. Strutt .
The Leakage of [ Dec. 30 , experimental values of the mobilities in the different gases at various pressures , as well as certain observed deviations from the law connecting the mobility and gaseous pressure , can be explained approximately on the supposition that the ion consists of a single molecule of the gas with which is associated a charge equal to that carried by the monovalent ion in electrolysis .
The Leakage of Helium from Radio-active Minerals .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received December 30 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 21 , 1909 .
) In a paper published in ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 ( 1908 ) , p. 272 , I showed that phosphatised bones and similar materials were notably radioactive , and that helium could be detected in them .
The quantity of helium found was not , however , uniformly greater in the geologically older materials than in younger ones of equal activity .
This was hypothetically attributed to escape of helium in certain cases .
I desired if possible to obtain direct experimental confirmation of this conjecture .
It would clearly be impossible to detect leakage of helium from materials such as the mineralised bones , even in a lifetime .
For any chance of success it was necessary to have recourse to the ores of uranium and thorium , in which the quantity of helium is something like 100,000 times greater .
The method of experimenting was to place a considerable quantity of the ore ( usually a kilo or more ) in a bottle provided with an exit tube and stopcock and connected to a mercury pump .
The bottle was exhausted and the stopcock closed .
After the lapse of a definite interval of time , usually a day or more , a small quantity of oxygen was admitted to the bottle and then collected through the pump , carrying with it any helium which had come off ' from the mineral .
The oxygen was absorbed with melted phosphorus , leaving a small residue of helium , ' together with impurities .
Any hydrogen present in the original gas , which may have been liberated by radio-active decomposition of traces of moisture , was burnt along with the phosphorus , and thus got rid of .
The residue was transferred to an apparatus consisting of a McLeod gauge in connection with a reservoir containing charcoal .
On cooling the charcoal with liquid air , helium was isolated , and the quantity could be measured .
As a test of purity , the spectrum could be examined in the capillary measuring tube of the gauge , using external tinfoil electrodes .

