166 Further Consideration of the Stability of the Pear-shaped Figure of a Rotating Mass of Liquid .
By Sir Gr .
H. Darwin , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , Plumian Professor of Astronomy , and Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Received October 29 , \#151 ; Read December 12 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) In vol. 17 , No. 3 ( 1905 ) , of the ' Memoirs of the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg/ M. Liapounofif has published an abstract of his work on figures of \#166 ; equilibrium of rotating liquid under the title " Sir un Probl\amp ; me de Tchebychef .
" In this paper he explains how he has obtained a rigorous solution for the figure and stability of the pear-shaped figure , and he pronounces it to be unstable .
In my paper in the ' Philosphical Transactions ' * I had arrived at an opposite conclusion .
The stability or instability depends , in fact , on whether the sign of a certain function , which M. Liapounoff calls A , is negative or positive .
M. Liapounoff tells us that , after having seen my conclusion , he repeated all his computations and confirmed his former result .
He attributes the disagreement between us to the fact that I have only computed portion of an infinite series , and only used approximate forms for the elliptic integrals involved in the several terms .
He believes that the inclusion of the neglected residue of the infinite series would lead to an opposite conclusion .
In my computation the critical function is decisively negative , whilst M. Liapounoff is equally clear that it is positive .
The inclusion of the neglected residue of the series , which forms part of the function , undoubtedly tends to make the whole function positive , but after making the revision , explained in the present paper , it remains incredible , to me at least , that the neglected residue should amount to the total needed to invert the sign .
The analysis of my former investigation has been carefully re-examined throughout , and I have , besides , applied the same method to the investigation of Maclaurin 's spheroid , where the solution can be verified by the known exact result.f As a further check , the formulae of the former paper have been examined on the hypothesis that the ellipsoid of reference reduces to a sphere .
The * A , Vol. 200 , pp. 251\#151 ; 314 . .
+ \#171 ; Amer .
Math. Soc. Trans./ 1903 , vol. 4 , p. 113 , on " The Approximate Determination of the Form of Maclaurin 's Spheroid , " and a further note on the same subject , recently sent to the same society .
Pear-shaped Figure of a Rotating Mass of Liquid .
167 several terms correctly reproduce the analogous terms in the paper on Maclaurin 's spheroid .
Dissent from so distinguished a mathematician as M. Liapounoff is not to be undertaken lightly , and I have , as explained , taken especial pains to insure correctness Having made my revision , and completed the computations , I feel a conviction that the source of our disagreement will be found in some matter of principle , and not in the neglected residue of this series .
I can now only express a hope that someone else will take up the question .
In the revision of the computations , the methods now used are much better than the old ones .
In as far as this paper is a mere repetition of the former work with improved methods , the results are only stated in outline , but I now show how any of the ellipsoidal harmonic functions may be computed without approximation , and also how the functions of the second kind may be found rigorously .
The Cambridge University Press is engaged in bringing out a collection of my mathematical papers , and when we come to the paper on the " Stability of the Pear-shaped Figure , " the new methods of computation will be substituted for the old .

