130 Sir W. Huggins and Lady Huggins .
Spectrum [ Dec. 12 , m* taken at intervals during the day .
The small waves in the portion of the curve drawn to 10 times the scale are the result of friction in the meter , in consequence of which the governor was in constant motion .
I must express my indebtedness to Messrs. Griffin and Sons , of Sardinia Street , who made a trial instrument for me when I was away in South Africa , and therefore out of reach .
They have carried out my instructions accurately , and to my entire satisfaction .
On the Spectrum of the Spontaneous Luminous Radiation of Radium .
Part IY.\#151 ; Extension of the Glow .
By Sir William Huggins , K.C.B. , O.M. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. ; and Lady Huggins , Hon. Mem. R.A.S. ( Received December 12 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) In our second paper* we suggest " whether the / 3-rays , which are analogous to the cathode corpuscles , may not be mainly operative in exciting the radium glow .
On this surmise it would be reasonable to expect some little extension of the glow outside the limit of the solid radium itself .
We are unable to detect any halo of luminosity outside the limit of the solid radium bromide ; the glow appears to end with sudden abruptness at the boundary surface of the radium .
" We omitted to state that this conclusion was arrived at by eye observations .
The radium was observed in the dark with a lens , and with a low-power microscope .
The earlier photographs of the spectrum of the glow were taken , for the purpose of comparison spectra , with the height of the slit reduced by shutters so as to be within the width of the exposed radium bromide , and , therefore , these photographs would not show whether the bright bands of nitrogen extend into the air beyond the radium .
Subsequently photographs were taken with the whole height of the slit , and on these we find that all the bands of nitrogen do extend to some little distance outside the radium salt .
Our attention at the time being directed to other phenomena of the glow , we did not examine the photographs to see if the nitrogen bands extended beyond the radium .
In a paper , dated August 22 , 1905 , F. Himstedt and G. Meyerf state that * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 410 ( 1903 ) .
t F. Himstedt and G. Meyer , 'Ber .
d. Nat. Gesells .
Freiburg , ' vol. 16 , pp. 13\#151 ; 17 .
1905 .
] of the Spontaneous Luminous Radiation of Radium .
131 in their photographs of the spectrum of RaBr2 , the four nitrogen bands , 3577 , 3371 , about 3300 , and 3159 , extend beyond the radium salt , while the other less refrangible bands are not traceable outside the radium .
In our photographs all the nitrogen bands project beyond the radium salt ; the relative distance to which the extension can be detected in the case of each band being , as might be expected , in proportion to the strength of the impression of that band upon the photographic plate .
B. Walter and R. Pohl , in a paper , dated September , 1905 , * give an account of experiments made with the help of screens , which show that for a distance of up to about 2 cm .
, the air surrounding radium bromide has an action on a photographic plate .
On re-examining an early photograph , taken in 1903 for another purpose , which is described in our second paper , f in which the RaBr2 was enclosed in a very narrow tube of thin glass , we find that the bands of nitrogen , which are strong within the tube , show no trace of extension on the plate beyond the tube .
The exposure of this plate was seven days .
This experiment , which we have repeated recently with an exposure of 14 days , shows that the luminosity of nitrogen in the near neighbourhood of radium bromide is not due to the cathode-like / 3-radiation , for this passes freely through glass .
Two explanations may be suggested : first , that the active cause is the a-rays ; j or secondly , that the nitrogen molecules which encounter those molecules of the radium which are undergoing active changes are broken up into ions , which are projected outwards , and give rise to the glow of luminous nitrogen .
S * B. Walter and R. Pohl , 'Ann .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 18 , p. 406 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 412 .
j B. Walter , July , 1905 , showed by means of absorption screens that the radiation from radio-tellurium can produce the ultra-violet light of nitrogen ( ' Anu .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 17 , p. 367 ) .
S The experiments described in our last paper showed that probably the / 3-rays are not the operative cause of the nitrogen glow ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 76 , p. 488 ) .
VOL. LXXVI1.\#151 ; A. L

