On the Recovery of Iron from Overstrain .
\#171 ; On the Recovery of Iron from Overstrain .
" By James Mum , B.Sc. , Trinity College , Cambridge ( 1851 Exhibition Science Research Scholar , Glasgow University ) .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.R.S. Received January 25 , \#151 ; Read February 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) It has long been known that iron which has been overstrained in tension\#151 ; that is to say , strained beyond the yield-point , so that it suffers a permanent stretch\#151 ; possesses very different elastic properties from the same iron in its primitive condition .
The material is said to he " hardened " by stretching , * since the ultimate effect of such treatment is to raise the elastic limit , and reduce the ductility of the material .
More recently attention has been called to the fact that , primarily , the result of tensile overstrain is to make iron assume a semi-plastic state ; so that the elastic limit instead of being raised by stretching is first of all lowered , it may be , to zero.f This plasticity may be shown by applying a comparatively small load to a bar of iron or steel which has just been overstrained by the application and removal of a large stretching load .
When the small load is put on , the bar will be found to elongate further than it would had the material been in its primitive state ; and a slight-continued elongation\#151 ; a " creeping"\#151 ; may occur after the small load has been applied .
If this load be withdrawn a quite appreciable permanent , or semi-permanent , set will be fouud to have been produced ; a set which diminishes slightly and , if small , may vanish provided time be allowed for backward creeping to take effect .
It may also be shown that if the reapplied load be increased the elongation produced will increase in a greater proportion .
Thus if a stress-strain curve be obtained from a recently overstrained bar of iron or steel , it will show even for small loads a marked falling away from the straight line which would indicate obedience to Hooke 's law .
It is the recovery from this semi-plastic state induced by overstrain to a condition of perfect or nearly perfect elasticity , with raised elastic limit , that is referred to in the title of the paper of which this is an abstract .
Such recovery is known to be effected by mere lapse of time , f and the object of the experiments described in the paper and * Ewing , " On certain Effects of Stress , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 205 , 1880 .
+ Bauschinger , ' Civilingenieur , ' 1881 , or 4 Mittheilungen aus deni Mech. Tech .
Laboratorium in Miinchen .
' An Account of Bauschinger 's work is given in Unwin 's book on ' Testing of Materials of Construction .
' Ewing , " On Measurements of Small Strains in the Testing of Materials and Structures , " 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 58 , April , 1895 .
X Bauschinger , ' Dingier 's Journal , ' vol. 224 , p. 5 ; or ' Mittheilungen aus dem Mech. Tech .
Laboratorium in Munchen .
' Ewing , both papers already cited .
Mr. J. Muir .
summarised here , is to show the effect of moderate temperature , of mechanical vibration , and of magnetic agitation on this slow return to the elastic state ; and further to illustrate this recovery by means of compression tests .
One section of the paper deals with the phenomenon of hysteresis in the relation of extension to stress which is exhibited in a marked degree by iron in the overstrained state .
Incidentally attention is called to subsidiary points of interest .
The experiments were carried out in the Engineering Laboratory of Cambridge University , and were the outcome of suggestions by Professor Ewing .
It was on his suggestion that the effect of moderate temperature on recovery from overstrain was tried , and the result of that trial led to much of the work incorporated in the paper .
The straining and testing were done by means of the laboratory 50-ton testing machine , the specimens employed for the most part being taken from steel rods one inch in diameter , of a quality which may be described as semi-mild .
The small strains of extension were measured by Professor Ewing 's extensometer.* After referring to the apparatus and the material employed , and describing the method of experimenting , there are first given in the paper examples of the slow recovery of elasticity with lapse of time .
These examples are illustrated by stress-strain curves obtained , at succeeding intervals of time , from extensometer readings similar to those tabulated by Professor Ewing in his paper , referred to above , " On Measurements of Small Strains in the Testing of Materials and Structures .
" Recovery is shown to be at first comparatively rapid but latterly very slow progress is made , and weeks or months may be required before an approximately perfect restoration of elasticity is effected .
When this is brought about , the specimen may be subjected to a stress a few tons per square inch higher than that at which the virgin material yielded , before a yield-point is passed and the material once more brought into a semi-plastic state .
If sufficient time be allowed to elapse after passing this second yield-point , an elastic state will again be assumed , and a third yield-point may be obtained about as far above the second yield-point as the second was above the first .
In this manner four or five yield-points may be obtained with the same specimen before fracture occurs .
A specimen broken in this manner shows greater ultimate strength , but less ultimate elongation than would have been obtained had fracture been brought about in the usual fashion , that is , without allowing intermediate recoveries of elasticity to take place .
Reference might also be made to Ford Kelvin 's discovery of the effect of a Sunday s rest on wires which had been subjected to torsional vibrations throughout the preceding week .
* For description see paper already cited , " On Measurements of Small Strains , \amp ; c. , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 58 , April , 1895 .
On the Recovery of Iron from Overstrain .
339 The question of recovery of elasticity under stress is next considered in the paper , and it is shown that the process of recovery proceeds at practically the same rate whether the material is kept stressed or is allowed to rest free from load .
A slight difference , however , is shown in the two cases , as restoration of elasticity takes place about the position of continued stress .
After this , the phenomenon of hysteresis in the relation of extension to stress is considered , and a closed cycle is shown , having features analogous to those exhibited by a magnetic hysteresis cycle.* The effect of moderate temperature on recovery from overstrain is next treated of , and it is shown that a slight increase in temperature hastens the restoration of elasticity to a remarkable extent .
Three or four minutes at 100 ' C. proved to be more efficient than a fortnight 's rest at the normal atmospheric temperature .
The effect of various temperatures below 100 ' C. is then investigated , and so moderate a temperature as 50 ' C. is shown to have a large influence in hastening recovery from overstrain .
The manner in which recovery proceeds with time when the specimen is kept at a constant temperature is shown in the paper by means of curves .
These curves show that at first\#151 ; that is , before elasticity is fairly well restored\#151 ; the amount of recovery , measured by the diminution in the elongation produced by a maximum load , is proportional to the square root of the time .
For example , the effect produced by , say , four minutes at 80 ' C. was approximately double of that produced by one minute at the same temperature .
By subjecting an overstrained specimen to temperatures above 100 ' C. , no effect ( other than the recovery from the temporary effect of overstrain ) was found to be produced until a red heat was almost attained .
When the specimen had been subjected to an annealing temperature , of course the whole effect of overstrain was removed , and the material assumed its virgin state . !
After the effect of temperature is discussed , that of mechanical vibration is next recorded in the paper ; and it is shown that by striking a recently overstrained specimen with a hammer , so as to make it ring , the material of the specimen is made less elastic .
That is , the effect of mechanical vibration is opposite to that of increase of temperature ; recovery of elasticity is not hastened , but the material becomes more semi-plastic after mechanical vibration than it was before .
The influence of magnetic agitation is next described .
A recently overstrained specimen was subjected to magnetic reversals by means of a coil giving a field strength of 140 C.G.S. units at its centre , but no * Ewing , " Experimental Researches in Magnetism , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1885 , or book on ' Magnetic Induction in Iron and other Metals .
' t See paper by Unwin , " On the Yield-point of Iron and Steel , and the Effect of repeated Straining and Annealing , " ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 57 , 1895 .
VOL. LXIV .
2 D Dr. W. C. Sturgis .
A Bacillus change whatever was detected in the elastic condition of the material .
the process of recovery seemed to be neither accelerated nor retarded .
For the compression experiments described in the paper , an instrument , specially designed by Professor Ewing , was employed to measure the small compressional strains .
By the aid of this instrument , the semi-plasticity of recently overstrained iron was readily observed , and the effect of moderate temperature in restoring elasticity was demonstrated by means of compression tests .
The lowering of the compression yield-point which accompanies the raising of the tension one ( due to tensile overstrain ) was also clearly shown .
This lowering , however , was not found to be such as to keep the total range of elasticity for the material constant ; that is , the lowering of the compression yield-point Avas not found to be equal to the raising of the tension one .
In conclusion , the characteristics of overstrained iron are considered as illustrating Maxwell 's views on the " Constitution of Bodies , " as set forth by him in the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica .
' " A Soil Bacillus of the Type of De Bary 's B. " By W. 0 .
Sturgis , M.A. , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.B.S. Received January 27 , \#151 ; Bead February 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The organism A\diich forms the subject of these investigations was isolated from clayey and gravelly soil , at a depth of about an inch below the surface .
It is a straight , or slightly curved bacillus of rather large size , measuring 3-4\#151 ; 7'7/ x x P2\#151 ; l'5y , and occurs either as isolated rods or in the form of long chains .
Its peculiar interest lies in the fact of its marked predilection for acid media , and its behaviour in the presence of carbohydrates .
It also offers peculiar advantages for the study , by direct observation in hanging drops , of the formation and germination of the spores , the formation of gelatinous sheaths , the-co-existence of motile and non-motile stages , and the rejm^enescence of so-called involution forms , the former process especially being Arery rapid under suitable conditions .
The organism forms on solid , acid media , such as saccharose-gelatine , large , domed , translucent drops , consisting of chains of rods provided with thick , firm , and gelatinous sheaths .
The latter character is exhibited only in media containing carbohydrates , especially cane sugar ; in media devoid of carbohydrates the colonies are slimy rather than gelatinous , and consist of almost naked rods and chains .
Moreover , even in the presence of sugar , the formation of an iirvesting sheath is largely dependent upon the age of the culture , the Augour of the

