]\gt ; rofs .
J. A. Fleming and J. .
On the the Dielectric Constant of Li and By J. A. FLEMING , M.A. , D.Sc .
, , Professor of Electrical Engineering in University ColIege , London , and , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution , \amp ; c. Received December 8 , \mdash ; Read December 17 , 1896 .
The exceedingly high insulating propertics of liquid oxygen and iqnid air indicate that these bodies are dielectrics , and possess a dielectric constant or specific inductive capacily which it is necessary to determine .
We have , therefore , lately made some measurements have enabled us to assign a number representing , in probability , a close approximation to these constants .
The remarkable non-conducting quality of liquid gases for electricity enabled us to employ a method which ] , generally speaking , is not applicable to liquids othel than those of very high specific resistance , or insulating power .
The method used by us in these experiments consists in the employment of a small condenser composed of metal ates which can be beneath the surface of the liquid gas , and the capacity of this condenser measured when the dielectric between the plates is first gaseous air at ordinary temperature and pressure , and is next replaced by the liquid oxygen or liquid air .
In order to determine the capacity of this condenser , which is necessarily small and of the order of microfarad , we adopted the well-known device of charging the small condenser with a potential ( 100 volts ) and then discharging it into a much vell insulated mica condenser , having a capacity of about microfarad .
This process was repeated ten times , and the larger condenser was then discharged tbrough a standardised ballistic galvanometer .
A specially ucted and highly insulated key was employed to charge the small cotldenser by means of a battery of fifty small lithanode sccondary cells : and then to discharge it into the larger condenser .
The success of method depends entirely on the absence of sensible leakage in the condensers , and it is essential to show that the small ] condenser Ioses no sensible portion of its charge by or conduction the interval which elapses between disconnecting it the battery and connecting it to the large condenser , which acts as a reservoir .
In these experiments the small condenser consisted of seventeen plates of carefully flattened alnminium , about 1 mm. in thickness ; each plate being 5 cm .
vids by 15 cm .
loug .
In order to separate the plates , small distance pieces of crown.lass were oyed , Dielectric Constant of Liquid Oxygen and Liquid Air .
359 each fragment being about 3 mm. square and 1 mm. thick .
Four of these mentso were affixed to each metal plate with a of shellac at the four COl.ners and one fixed in the middle .
The seventeen then ) iled one on the other , glass fragments acting as separators , and the alternate plates were connected ether by wires soldered to each series .
A metal clamp all the plates in position .
The condenser so formed consisted of seventeen plates , igbt positive , and nine the ncgative surfaces .
The distnncc pieces had a total stlrface very nearly 1 per .
of the total opposed surface of the plates .
The condenser so formed had a capacity of of a microfarad when OllS air at C. and formed the dielecbric .
If such a condensel a capacity is to a potential and then times in succession into a ]arger condenser of , it is easy to show that at the end of the the qualltity Qined in the large colldensel is given by the series , here ) Hcnce we ] ) .
The capacity of the small be cousidered to be made up of two parts ; a part is liquid oxygen is ) stituted f gaseous oxygell or air on the condenser , and which thereby becomes increased .
If is constant of liquid , referred to that of seous oxygen at C. as unity ; and if is the capacity of this val'iable of the condensel ' the dielectric is gaseous en , then is its capncity when liquid is substituted the gaseous oxygen at same temperature .
In the next place there is a small palt of the whole capacity duc the scparators .
These , as a whole , have a surface equal to 1 ) cent. of the whele surface of metal tes , dielectric , as below , cooled to C. , of ) it hat parb of the whole capacity of denser is duc to the glass , may bc ' nearly by parb of racticall .
condenser is lifted out of liquid into the cold , COtlS lying nbove if , which is at ncarly same ] ) ) , put into it , as .
as the condenser is vory the temperature in the two COll itions .
Profs .
J. A Fleming and J. Dewar .
On the Hence , when the small condenser is under the surface of liquid oxygen its capacity , as a whole , is and the whole quantity of electricity , , given up to the resel.voir condenser after charges of the small one , charged to potential have been put into it , is where and .
Again , when the small condenselj is lifted ont of the liquid oxygen into the g.aseous oxygen lying on the surface , its capacity becomes , and the whole quantity stored up in the reservoir , after charges a potential , is where and .
If in each case the reservoir condenser is discharged through a ballistic galvanometer , the " " throw\ldquo ; or of which is proportional to the quantity of electl'icity sent through it , and if and are the throws produced by the quantities and , we have The ratio is given from the observations .
To solve this equation completely and determine would be difficult , since the quantity is a somewhat complicatedunction of K. We know , however , that the ratio of cannot be very far unity .
A ough experiment had shown that was a number in the neighbourhood of , and a calculation shows that when ten discharges of the small condenser are made in each into the condenser , and if the large condenser has a capacity of microfarad , and the small one a capacity of nearly microfarad , that the ratio 1030/ 1019 nearly .
Hence comes in as a correcting factor of about 1 per cent. in value .
Before relyin on the above method , it was necessary to prove that the loss of charge of the small condensel ' was negligible during the time elapsing between the end of the charge and the end of the discbarge of the small condensel .
ielectric Cof Liqnid } ' en We found trial that although the small condenser had a of only microfarad , it held its ] when with 100 volts , and placed benenth the of liquid in the most inal. .
The test insulation as follows:\mdash ; The small condenscl was with 100 , and the nometer instantly .
The was 95 scale The condenser was thench .
and allowed to stand ten minutes then discharged and the ) ) was scalc ions .
In like it was and for forty-seven nutes , and the tlow was then divisions .
The boYC { that of the hnlall t , olldcnser rleclensed only by abont 1 ccnt .
of placed beueath ]iquid air , hence the loss of -tenth of a was eciabl The same remarkable is the small is held in cold above the lliquid low tempcrature of C. prevents any sible 1 acl .
OSS the list .
picccs , also inc cific r of the glass As furthcr of of wo mention ) the small cotldellser when in liquid ttir with lluchine , ins/ rting the condenbo a moments , closed the the condensel by .
Hlnall spark was seen at We thus constructed a little cyden , the dielectric of whelJ w liquid air , and the tings plntes .
This liquid Leyden jar held its tisfied ourselves in this mannel that the immersed in liquid air no tion of its the fraction ( about ouc-tenth ) of a second in which ischarge key was its co ntacts , we proceeded to periment in the nlanner .
The condcnser was in very vacuun } voFisel , two litres of liquid and it was as , and dischal.g.ed into a good by , which exce ] ] insulation .
of and ten times pied , perhaps , two hese figures do of } ) of rsion of oxygcn moUbly the small glass ) tors , , as 11 ] an ndcnt increased the resistivity }( . .
The of itsclf exceeedingly Profs .
J. A. Fleming and J. Dewar .
On the The resultant charge been measured on the ballistic galvanometer , the condenser was lifbed , into the cold gaseons oxygen lying on the surface of the oxygen , and before the condenser had time to alter its form by rising in ature , the same process was repeated with the dielectric changed to gaseous oxygen at C. The oWing Table I shows the observed ballistic throws , all reduced to their equivalents at one common charging pressure of 100 volts :\mdash ; Table I.\mdash ; Observations to Deterlnine the Dielectri Constant of Liquid Oxygen .
Me.an ballistic in oxygen .
Mean ballistic throw in liquid oxygen Dielectric } of Liquid and Liquid .
363 It will be seen the meall galvanometer throw , when the condenser was immerHed in liquid oxygen , was centims. , and the mean throw , when raised into the gascous oxygen , centims. hich we felt it important to examine , was ether there was any colrection needed the change in the dielcctric constant of the glass rators with temperature .
ince these ) sepnrators had a total surface of nearIy 1 per cent. of the of the lnetal plates , the condenser may be regarded .
of two condensers joined parallel , one of a dielectric condenser ving an effective surface of 1 , and the other a condenser haYiug a liquid or ascous oxygen diclectric area of 99 .
In the course of these experiments we have the effect of low temperatuI'e upon the dielcctric constants of glass , paraffined paper , and micn .
We find that on bodieH ) C. they exporience a marked reduction in dielectric .
The dielectric constant of a certain specimen of was reduced by .
cent. by cooling to the temperature of liquid air to C. The dielectric conof paraffined ) was reduced by per cent. under same circumstance aged in a ttic examination of the infiuence of low on the dielectric constants and specific resistances of the principal dielectric bodies .
The crown lass used as in the construction of our small condenscr spccific inductivo city of at ordin tempel .
R , and this the low telnperatnre educed to nearly ) Hence iu ting tcity of the colldenser , as constructed , there comes in as wo seeu a ection f the presence of .
We selected glass in ] the first instance rather than or HulpLur , as we thought it probable should use the same conclenser in determining other constauts , and we wished to onstruct the separatol .
S of a matel.ial which was very rigid and not casiJy cted upon ) oils or other king the formula above given , deduce frolll the ults tcquired c ' hencc substjtu tcrved ratio ' we find * By another lnetllod } found for the glass of a ) lcbt-tubc the dielectric constant per ccllt .
by cooling to turc of liquid air .
Undcr same cilcumstances a certain ) ccimen of mica only per ccnt .
in dielectric Profs .
J. A. Fleming and J. Dowal .
On the as the dielectric constant of liquid oxygen referred to that of the overlying gaseous oxygen at C. as unity .
Since the aluminium condenser is at the same temperature when the two measurents are made , no correction is necessary for any change of forril of the condenser .
To determine the dielectric constant of liquid oxygen iu terms of that of a vacuum taken as unity , we require to know the dielectric constant of the gaseous oxygen lying on the surface of the liquid oxygen referred to the same unit .
Boltzmann and Klemencic have shown that true dielectric constant of air at a temperature of C. and 760 mm. is of oxygen gas at the same telnperature and pressure is not very different .
If value of K-l for gases varies directly as the , and if temperature per se makes no difference , then the dieloctfic constant of the gaseous oxygen lying on the surface of the liquid oxygcn , and has a temperature of C. nearly , and a about 'three times that of the gas at C. , is not far from .
Hence the factor to be applied to the above value of the dieleotric constant of the liquid is at the most and the true dielectric constant of liquid oxygen at C. and under a pressure of 760 mm. is 1lot far from We intend to examine this correction more closely .
As a matter of fact , we were not able to detect any difference between the capacity of the small condensel when held in air at ordinary ture pressure , and in the cold gaseous oxygen at C. lying on the surface of the liquid oxygen .
Until we are able to make a better determination we may take the above number , , therefore , as representing in all probability a close approximation to the constant of liquid The eresting question then arises how far does liquid oxygen obey Maxwell 's law , by which the product of the dielectric constant and the netic permeabillty should be equal to the square of the refiacbive index for waves of infinite wave-lengbh The are at hand for making this comparison , as we have solves just dotermined the magnetic permeability of liquid oxygen , and find it to bo and the refractive index ofliquid oxygen has been deterlnined by Living and Dewar for several different Fleming and Dewar , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc December , lS96 , vol. 60 , p. 283 , " " On the Magnetic Permeability of Liquid Oxygen and Liquid Air Living and Dewar , 'Phil .
Mag Sept. , 1895 , p. 269 , " " On the Refraction and Dispel.sion of Liquid Oxygen and the Absorption Spectrum of Diquid Air See also Liveiug and Dewar " " On the Refractive Index of Liquid Oxygen 'Phil .
Mag August , 1892 , " " On the Spectrum of Liquid Oxygen and on the Refractive Indices of Liquid Nitrous Oxide and Ethylene also Living and Dewar , 'PlIil .
Dielectric Constant of and Liquid Air .
Professors Living and Dewar determined the refractive indiceb corresponding to certain wave-lengths ( h ) for the following lengths:\mdash ; From lines in ) spectrum of Cadmium . . . .
to Thallium . . . . . . . .
, , Lithium . . . . . .
670 , , Sodium. . . . . . . . .
, , state that they consider the best resuIts given ) the tirf ) two observations .
Taking these wave-lcngths 4416 and 6438 , the refractive indices to them , 1Ye have calculated from them , by the formula the refracve index for and found it to be follows:\mdash ; square of tlIisnumbe is this , thel.efol .
O , is the value of of the refracti in dex for waves of infinite wave-length in liquid oxygen .
the product of the constant , , as detc.rmined , that of the magnctic pel'meability , L00287 , as previously oblained by us , wo find that this product is , and hence that there is therefore a very fairly close agl.eement betweeu the numbel representing the square of the refractive index for waves of infinite and the above product .
The difference amounts to about two-thirds of one per cent. Hence liquid oxygen is a substance which very closely obeys 's law .
We have applied the same apparatus to the determination of constant of liquid air obtained in exactly the same mannel and Table II below gives the esults of the observations taken in liquid .
The observed resuIts , when corrected as above described , for the dielectric constant of liquid air the number , which is slightly that of the liquid oxygen .
As , however , by the time experiment was complete the liquid air had become liquid oxyg.en owing to the nearly complete evaporatiolt of the nitx.ogen , the coincidence of the two results is only what was to be expected .
Mag October , 1893 , " " On the Refrnctive Indices of Liquid Nitrogen and Air also Living and Dewar , 'Phil .
Mag Sept. , 1888 , ' On Absorption Spectrum ( lumiuous and -violet ) of large Masses of Oxygen Profs .
J. A. leming and J. Dewar .
On the The II below gives the observational results in the case of the liquid air\mdash ; really , however , of liquid oxygen .
Table I.\mdash ; Dielectric Constant of Liquid Air ( practically iquid Oxygen ) .
In iquid Air .
Ballistic throw for condenser charged to 100 olts .
9.5 9.6 9.4 Mean In cold Gaseous Air .
Ballistic throw for condenser charged to 100 volts .
6.51 6.51 Mean Dielectric constant ] With to the above-determined dielectric constants for liquid oxygen and liquid , it may be remarked that these numbers are smaller than those which have been obtained for almost any other solid or liquid substance of which we have been able to find the measured results .
It has been already pointed out that large dielectric constant genorally accompanies small specific resistance in a dielectric , and vice versed .
Hence , as the specific of the liquid oxygen is very large\mdash ; it being a very finc insnlator\mdash ; it is not to find the dielectric constant very small .
As above mentioned , at a very low temperature , the lectric constant of some other solid ] ectrics has been found by us t be very much reduced , and hence an interesting field of research is opened out for the examination of the change produced by low temperatures on the dielectric constants of other wellknown solid , such as paraffin , ebonite , -percha , mica , sulphur , spermaceti , and various frozen liquid insulators , such as the numerous hydrocarbon oils , carbon disulphide , ice , \amp ; c. * We hope to .
W. Cassie , M.A. , 'Phil .
Trans vol. 46 , 1889 , has given the of measurements on the chnnges produced the dielectric constants of various insulators by heating them .
As far as we can see , our initial results low tures for and paraffin are consistent with his .
lt will be interesting to see how this relatively small dielectric constant of liquid oxygen compares with that of other dielectrics when these last are cooled to the same temperature .
liielectric Constant Liquid an Air .
be in it position to furnish further information on this point , and , also , if possible , to say whether the fall cons is accompanied by a reduction in ; that is to say , Maxwell 's law is obeyed at low atures .
We that we have already ( ievlsed a method by which it will be possible to cons , a condenser ithout the above-described hence to the resulting measurement from the distance plcces , an enc small , perhaps , to about 1 per cent.\mdash ; which may affect the -given esults , and comes consequencc of doubt existing as to the exacb of the separa- tors , and also the exact dielectric ronstant of the at the tcmpcraturc .
It is interesting to observe that the numbers which we have found ve for the dielectric constant of liquid oxygen and liquid air are not very different in ordel , thongh somewhat smaller than the tric constant as already determined for some other liquid , such as nitlous oxide and carbon dioxide .
In concIusion , we may add that have been again much indebted to .
J. .
Petavel .
his kind ashistance in the abovedescribed obscrvations and llleasurcments .
Notc aclded connection with the abovo invcstigation , it is esting to notc one ence ee the gnetic susceptibility of oxygen in the liquid and in the gaseous state .
The mnss of 1 .
of gaseous oxyge taken at C. and 7 mm. , is gramme .
The nlass of 1 c.c. of liquid -ygen , taken at C. mm. , as determined by one of us ( J. Dewar ) , is } anlme .
Hence of the dezlsity of liquid oxygen to of to 1 .
msgnetic susceptibility of gaseous en at C. and 760 mm. , obtaioed from the figures given by Faraday and E. ] , per unit of volume , whilst the magnetic susceptibility the liquid state is , as nave .
Hen ce the atio of the susccptibility of liquid to that of gaseous oxygcn for olumes is 1594 to 1 .
In other vords , the etic susceptibility of liquid oxygen is nearly twice as great as of gaseous oxygen equal masscs .
The inferenco is that netic susceptibility is not met.ely a property of the molecule per , but is ) ction of the state of regation .
iude , do siquc , ' ol .
5 , , p. 413 , " " On ] ) Diclectric of Liquid xscs Sec eming and Dewa ] .
, ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 60 , ) .
Mr. S. Bidwell .
On )Phenomena Note added Decenlbcr 18 .
In addition to arrangements above described for mining the capacity of small condenser , we have also employed the wellknow1l method of chalging and ging the small condenser through a galvanometer by means of a contact-maker drive ] ] at a speed of s1xty contacts per second by an electrically controlled -fork .
By this means a steady deflection of the galvanometer is obtained due to the passage of the rapidly discharges ough it .
Preliminary observations with this apparatus have confirmed the above-given for the dielectric constant of liquid oxygen , and by a modification of it we hope shortly to make a very reful r-determination of the " " On Subjective Colour Phenomena attending sudden Changes of Illumination By SHELFORD , LL. B. , Beceived December 10 , \mdash ; Read December 17 , 1896 .
The inveshgation which forms the subject of this paper originated in an attempt to account satisfactorily for the colour pheno:nena exhibited by Mr. C. E. Benham 's " " Artificial Spectrum Top which , when it was brought before the public , about years ago , excited considerable interest .
The top consists of a disk of cardboard about in .
in diameter , mounted upon a spindle .
One oi the disk is painted black ; upon the white ground of the other half are four successivs groups of three black lines , having the form of concentric arcs of , which are at different distances from the centre , as shown in the annexed figure ; the thickness of the lines is about in .
( 1 mm When the disk rotates , each group of black lines generally appears to assume a different colour .
The natul'e of the colours thus developed depends upon the speed of the rotation , and upon the quality and intensity of the illumination .
After several trials , I found that no better results , on the whole , could be obtained than when the disk was illuminated by a -candIe power incandescent lamp , with a ground glass bulb , at a distance of about 6 in .
( 15 cm and was caused to turn about five times in a second .
These , therefore , were adopted as the standard conditions for my experiments , the disk being mounted upon a horizontal axis , driven by an electro-motor , and the speed regulated by comparison with the ticks of an ordinary watch .
When the disk rotates under the specified conditions and in the direction by arrow in the figure , the inner group of

