422 Messrs. D. Herman and F. Rntley .
[ June 18 , by the darkening in the yellow portion of what otherwise would he a continuous spectrum .
The calcium phosphorescent spectrum by itself is continuous , with no break , lines , or bands in it .
The Anomalous Line rj 2693 .
On several occasions I have spoken of an orange line , 2693 , which by its brilliancy and sharpness is a prominent object in most of the samarium-yttrium spectra .
" With pure samaric sulphate it is exceeding faint .
With samaria containing 5 per cent , of yttria it is very little brighter ; with 10 per cent , of yttria it gains a little ; with 15 per cent , it is brighter still , and with a mixture of 80 parts samaria and 20 parts yttria it is at its maximum intensity .
It continues to be the most striking feature in the spectra of the various mixtures of samaria and yttria until the proportion becomes samaria 3 , yttria 97 , when it begins to get less bright , and only when pure yttria is reached does it altogether vanish .
It is noteworthy that so long as this bright line is a component of the spectrum , the other bands manifest decidedly less intensity , and many of them are suppressed .
The profound modification in the spectra of samaria and yttria developed by their mixture is , I believe , without precedent in spectrum analysis .
It is difficult to realise the character of the modification which converts somewhat faint diffused bands into one intensely sharp and brilliant line .
One important lesson taught by the many anomalies unearthed in these researches is , that inferences drawn from spectrum analysis per se are liable to grave doubt , unless at every step the spectroscopist goes hand in hand with the chemist .
Spectroscopy may give valuable indications , but chemistry must after all be the court of final appeal .
YI .
" On the Microscopic Characters of some Specimens of Devitrified Glass ; with Notes on certain analogous Structures in Rocks .
" By Douglas Herman and Frank Rutley .
Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received May 28 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) This paper relates first to the changes brought about in glass solids bounded by plane surfaces , by exposure to high temperatures , the main object of the paper being to elucidate the changes which have taken place in vitreous , and once vitreous , rocks by comparing the phenomena of natural devitrification with similar phenomena effected 1885.1 Microscopic Characters of Glasses .
423 by artificial means .
The first case considered is that of a piece of thick plate glass which has been totally devitrified under conditions described in detail in the paper .
In the roughly broken specimen the fractured surface sufficiently reveals the fact that crystallisation has taken place throughout the mass , while other specimens subsequently described by the authors demonstrate beyond question that the crystallisation has started at the surfaces and has travelled inwards .
In this particular specimen the crystallisation has advanced from the different surfaces until the various sets of crystals have arrested one another in very definite planes , whose traces are clearly perceptible on a fractured surface .
A figure showing this has recently been published in Prof. Bonney 's Presidential Address to the Geological Society , the drawing having been made from a chip taken from part of the same plate of glass now in the Museum of Practical Geology .
An examination of a section cut in one direction from the specimen now described , showed little more than has already been stated , except that the crystals were seen to occur in bundles of divergent prisms , the centres of divergence being at or near the surfaces of the plate of glass .
An inspection of a ground surface of the plate showed a curious reticulation , in some places very well marked , and it therefore seemed desirable to examine another section taken parallel to this surface , and at right angles to the former section .
This was done , and it then became apparent that a third section must be cut , so as to traverse two directions of crystallisation disposed at right angles to each other before any sound interpretation of the phenomena could be arrived at .
This third section traversed one of the triangular areas , or rather wedges formed by arrest , on the shorter side of the plate , at a little distance from the thin end of the wedge , and , beyond this area , it passed parallel to the adjacent directions of crystallisation .
In this section the bundles of crystals lying normal to the plane of section were seen exactly to resemble those visible in the second section taken parallel to one of the broad surfaces of the plate , while the others were identical with those already seen in the first section .
It then became clear that a system of prismatic jointing had been developed , presumably due to strain around separate centres of crystallisation from which the divergent fasciculi emanated , while from the first and third sections it was evident that this jointing extended from the surface inwards , until the development of one set of crystalline bundles was arrested by another set .
In sections taken parallel to these fasciculi there is a curious wavy brindling , which is apparently due to structure analogous to that seen in " cone in cone " ironstone and some other minerals , the marked character of the phenomena when viewed by transmitted light being probably due to want of coincidence in the direction of the minute prisms or fibres composing the overlapping divergent groups .
In order to ascertain more fully the conditions 424 Alicroscopic Characters of Devitrified Glasses .
[ June 18 under which , this mode of devitrification would hold good , glass solids of definite geometrical forms were partially and completely devitrified , and it was seen that in each case the crystalline bundles , Separated by joint planes , extended from the surface of the solids inwards in directions normal to the surfaces .
In a trigonal prism it was found that there was an apparent departure from this rule , certain sets of crystals emanating from lines within the prism , and extending outwards towards the surfaces of the solids , although they did not reach those surfaces .
This anomalous procedure was referred to the presence of flaws , and to demonstrate this two fresh specimens were devitrified .
One was another trigonal prism free from any flaw , in which devitrification extended uniformly from the surfaces until three straight lines of arrest resulted , meeting in the axis of the prism .
The other specimen was a thick piece of flat plate glass .
On this a short line was ruled with a diamond , and a tap being administered , a crack was developed from this line , extending rather more than half way through the plate .
The plate was then completely devitrified .
The result was precisely similar to that seen in the specimen first described , but it was found that the crack emanating from the diamond scratch had acted as a fresh surface , devitrification having taken place at right angles to this crack as far as the median line of arrest , while on the ; other side of that line , and from the extremity of the crack , a radiating crystalline structure was developed , resulting in a structure analogous to that of a hemisphere , but of course extending the whole length of the crack .
The remainder of the paper touches upon the incipient development and formation of spherules and crystallites , with other points of interest in connexion with superficial devitrification .
The spherules in their most rudimentary stage sometimes appear to consist of nebular segregations of globulites .
Instances are also cited in which partial and complete devitrification of a glass plate is brought about by the development of spherules in the interior of the plate in conjunction with the formation of an enveloping crust , which extends to variable distances from the surfaces of the plate , according to the period of devitrification , and also , more especially , according to the chemical composition of the glass .
Some notes are also given on the relation of the phenomena here described to similar ones met with in naturally devitrified rocks , the paper being intended as the forerunner of others , in which it is hoped that the petrological bearings of the subject may be more fully discussed .

