Observations on the singular Figure of the Planet Saturn .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read June 20 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 272 .
] Notwithstanding the variety of extraordinary phenomena already observed respecting the planet Saturn , there remains , Dr. Herschel says , a singularity which distinguishes the figure of Saturn from that of all the other planets .
He had , in the year 1776 , observed that the body of Saturn was not exactly round , and had found in the year 1781 that it was flattened at the poled , at least as much as Jupiter .
In the year 1789 he measured the equatorial and polar diameters , and supposing there could be no other particularity in the figure of the planet , ascribed a certain irregularity he perceived in other parts of the body , to the interference of the ring .
Dr. Herschel now relates a series of observations made in the months of April , May , and June , of the present year , of which the following are the most remarkable .
April 12.-The flattening of the polar regions appeared not so gradual as in Jupiter , and seemed not to begin till at a high latitude .
April 18.-The situation of the four points of the greatest curvature was measured with Dr. Herschel 's angular micrometer , power 527 .
Their latitude was found to be 46ยง 38 ' ; but as neither of the cross wires could be in the parallel , no great accuracy , Dr. Herschel says , could be expected .
April 19.-Ten-feet reflector , power 400 .
The figure of Saturn was somewhat like a parallelogram , with the four corners rounded off deeply .
A measure of the position of the four poilnts of the greatest curvature , taken this night , gave their latitude 450 44f.5 .
May the 5th , 12th , and 13th.-Ten-feet reflector , with different powers .
Jupiter and Saturn were viewed alternately , and compared .
A greater curvature was evident at the polar and equatorial regions of Jupiter than at those regions in Saturn .
These alternate observations were many times repeated , and the oftener the planets were compared , the more striking appeared the difference in their shape .
May 26.-Ten-feet reflector , power 400 .
The difference in the tliree diameters of Saturn was evident without measurement .
That which passes through the points of the greatest curvature being the largest ; the equatorial diameter the next ; and the polar diameter the smallest .
June 1.-Two measures of the latitude of the greatest curvature were taken , by setting the fixed thread of the micrometer to the direction of the ring .
The mean of these was 430 20 ' .
June 2nd.-The two planets were viewed alternately , with powers of 300 , of 200 , and of 160 ; and even with the lowest of these , the difference in the figure of the planets was very evident .
The telescopic appearance of Saturn was then compared with a figure drawn from the measures Dr. Herschel had taken , combined with the proportion between the equatorial and polar diameters determined in the year 1789 .
From these a corrected figure was formed , of which an exact copy is given .
The dimensions of it , in proportional parts , are , Diameter of the greatest curvature ... ... ... ... 36 Equatorial diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 35 Polar diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 32 Latitude of the longest diameter ... ... ... . .
430 20 ' These observations , Dr. Herschel thinks , may tend , in some measure , to ascertain the quantity of matter in the ring and its solidity ; they also afford a new instance of the effect of gravitation on the figure of planets ; for in the present case the opposite influence of two centripetal , and two centrifugal forces , must be considered .

