I. " Tables of the Weights of the Human Body and the Internal Organs in the Sane and Insane of both Sexes at various Ages .
" By ROBEIT BOYD , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Physician to the County Somerset Lunatic Asylum .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPE Y , Sec. 1R.S .
Received February 7 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) These Tables have been compiled from notes of 2086 examinations made at St. Marylebone Infirmary between 1839 and 1847 , and of 528 examinations in cases of insanity made at the Somerset Lunatic Asylum , between 1848 and the end of December 1860 , comprehending , in all , a period of twenty-one years .
The Tables are submitted with the hope that they may aid in forming a standard of the weight of the human organs at different stages of life from early infancy to old age .
The cases are distributed under eighteen periods of life , and the Tables show the height and weight of the body , and the weight of the encephalon and its several parts , the right and left lung , the heart and all the abdominal organs ; giving the maximum , minimum and average in each period .
In the second series of cases , namely those from the lunatic asylum , the measurement of the head , and the weight of the spinal cord are also stated .
The assigned causes of death are given in the margin , also the deviations in weight of the lungs , heart and liver , occasioned by disease .
The following general results may be deduced from the first series of cases , namely , those occurring among the Poor of the Parish of Marylebone .
With few exceptions the body and internal organs arrived at their full size in both sexes between twenty and thirty years .
In children especially , the body was attenuated from disease : for example , one scrofulous female child , aged three years , weighed only 84 lbs. , and the numbers about that age were insufficient to counterbalance the effect of such cases on the mean result , and form a standard of comparison for children of the same age under more favourable circumstances .
The average weight of the males was greatest at from 70 to 80 years , which is to be accounted for by the large proportion cut off at earlier periods by pulmonary phthisis .
The mean weight of the male brain was , at all periods , above that of the female , which was the probable cause of the large number of stillborn male infants as compared with females , 51 to 32 , and the necessity of resorting to craniotomy in five instances of the former only .
The highest average weight of the brain in both sexes was from 14 to 20 years ; the next highest was in the males from 30 to 40 , and in the females from 20 to 30 years ; but it will be observed that the cases were much fewer in number in these than in other later periods .
The weight of the lungs was so much , and so frequently increased by disease , that healthy lungs were exceptions : it therefore appeared advisable to introduce in the margin their weights in various states , also the weights of the heart and liver , which were subject to great variations .
The " Thymus gland , " an organ which disappears with infancy , was so large in the foetus in fourteen cases , that it appeared to have formed a fatal impediment to respiration .
The abdominal organs were generally heavier in the male than in the female ; the spleen in both was subject to considerable variations in size , and the mean weight of the left kidney was generally found greater than that of the right .
The general results obtained from a review of the second series of cases are stated by the author as follows : The average height of the adult male varied from 67'8 to 65 inches , of the female from 63'2 to 61'6 inches ; while the mean weight of the former varied from 112'12 to 91 5 lbs. , and of the latter from 95'2 to 76'9 lbs. , showing a preponderance of the insane male of 6 lbs. , and of the insane female of 8 lbs. , as compared with the sane adults dying at the same period of life .
The average weight of the right cerebral hemisphere varied in the males from 20'89 oz. to 18'97 oz. , and in the females from 19'21 oz. to 17'20 oz. ; the left varied in the males from 21'05 oz. to 18'62 oz. , and from 19'51 oz. to 17'39 oz. in the females .
It is a singular fact , confirmed by the examination of nearly 200 cases at St. Marylebone , in which the hemispheres were weighed separately , that almost invariably the average weight of the left exceeded that of the right by at least the eighth of an ounce .
In the Med. Chir .
Trans. vol. xxxix .
, several cases of inequalities of the cerebral hemispheres which came under my notice are given .
The average weight of the cerebellum varied in the males from 5'42 oz. to 5'06 oz. , and from 5 to 4'74 oz. in the females ; that of the pons Varolii and medulla in the male from 1'15 oz. to 1'02 oz. , and from 1'05 oz. to *95 oz. in the females ; and that of the encephalon in males from 48'17 oz. to 43'87 oz. , and in females from 44'55 oz. to 40'55 oz. ; in the sane , at the same period of life , the average varied in the male from 48'2 oz. to 45'34 oz. , and in the female from 43*7 oz. to 39'77 oz. The general average weight of the lungs is shown in the Table , and the exceptions in the margin .
The average weight of the heart did not reach its maximum until an advanced period of life .
In the abdominal organs nothing was observed differing essentially from those in Table No. 1 .

