67 On the Presence of Hcem-agglutinin and Hcemolysins in the Blood obtained from Infectious and Infectionis Diseases in Man .
( Report .
) By Leonard S. Dudgeon , F.R.C.P. Lond. , and H. A. F. Wilson .
( Communicated by Dr. F. W. Mott , F.R.S. Received September 11 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratories , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) The further investigations on this subject which form the basis of this paper have been mainly directed towards phagocytosis and the specific haem-agglutinins and haemolysins present in the blood of apparently healthy people and those suffering from acute and chronic infections .
To these we may possibly add a note on the susceptibility of the red blood corpuscles in various diseases to water containing graduated percentages of sodium chloride .
Normal Blood .
It is stated in a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' by one of , us ( L. S. D. ) , * that while auto-agglutination of the red blood corpuscles does not occur , iso-agglutination is met with in a certain proportion of cases .
The samples of blood used in these experiments have been obtained from workers in these laboratories and others apparently in the best of health .
The technique was similar to that referred to in the preliminary report . !
Some samples of normal sera have the power of agglutinating almost all specimens of normal and abnormal red cells presented to them , and often the agglutination is of the haemolytic type\#151 ; blood presenting these changes has been obtained from apparently perfectly healthy men , but in no case was auto-agglutination or auto-haemolysis met with .
The haem-agglutinating properties of " pooled " serum were tested in the manner about to be recorded .
Several samples of sera in equal proportions were allowed to interact at 37 ' C. , and then tested with various suspensions of red blood corpuscles which had previously been treated with the sera individually .
The results of these experiments may be briefly summarised .
It was found that when a serum caused agglutination of certain red cells , agglutination still occurred in the pooled mixture , but to a less degree owing to dilution ; but if no agglutination * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , p. 207 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 80 , p. 531 .
68 Messrs. Dudgeon and Wilson .
On the Presence of [ Sept. 11 , of the suspension of red blood corpuscles had taken place in any of the individual sera before pooling , no effect was noted when the pooled serum was added to the red cells .
In a certain proportion of the samples of normal blood examined for agglutinative properties a negative result was obtained ; but some specimens , while not exhibiting true agglutination of the individual chromocytes , showed a definite clumping of rouleaux .
The appearance of this type of agglutination was extremely rapid , and could be watched under the microscope immediately after the specimen had been prepared .
In another series of experiments the mixtures of the respective sera and red cells were tested under special conditions of temperature ; the blood was collected in citrated saline at 37 ' C. and kept at that temperature ; the cells were washed with saline also at 37 ' C. , and the suspension of red cells was made up in this warm saline , but these precautions did not appear to influence the results in any way .
Undiluted Red Cells.\#151 ; After the red cells had been washed in saline and the supernatant fluid pipetted off , a mixture of one volume of serum and one volume of undiluted red cells was made .
In one series of experiments the 5-per-cent , suspension of red cells gave no reaction with the appropriate serum , but when tested by this method perfect agglutination occurred instantaneously .
This experiment was the only instance in which such a phenomenon was noted .
In all other cases when negative results were obtained by the 5-per-cent , red-cell suspension , similar results were obtained by using the undiluted red cells .
Hcem-agglutinins In the series of cases concerning this investigation no instance of true auto-agglutination has been met with .
It has been shown that frequently the serum or red cells of a patient suffering from a disease may agglutinate or be agglutinated by the red cells or serum of a patient suffering from the same disease .
In many instances it was found that , by heating a serum at 60 ' C. for 15 minutes and thereby destroying its haemolytic property , the agglutinative action was rendered much more obvious than previously , and this was especially the case in those examples where the haemolytic action was very intense .
In one series of experiments on haem-agglutination neutral fluid was used ( 08 per cent. , sodium chloride and 002 per cent , calcium chloride ) , but no advantage appeared to occur by employing a 5-per-cent , suspension of red cells in this fluid .
Further attempts were made to extract hypothetical agglutinins from the red cells themselves .
The contents of a tube containing serum and Hcem-agglutinins , etc. , in the Blood .
1909 .
] unwashed red cells were pounded in a mortar with fine glass and then allowed to stand all night .
The red fluid obtained after centrifugalisation was completed was then tested on samples of red cells which the untreated serum had failed to agglutinate , but negative results occurred in every instance .
Specific Agglutinins .
The technique adopted for these investigations has been similar to that referred to in detail in the previous reports .
The experiments connected with specificity have so far been of a confirmatory nature , that is , if a serum is saturated with suitable red cells , the agglutinative property of the serum is removed for those red cells , but remains for other red cells which were agglutinated by the serum previous to saturation , although exceptions very occasionally occur .
The following experiment well illustrates this true specific action .
Immune serum ( pneumonia ) + normal red cells = marked agglutination .
Immune serum ( pneumonia ) + immune red cells ( pernicious anaemia ) = marked agglutination .
The immune serum was then saturated with normal red cells for two and a quarter hours at 37 ' C. and then centrifugalised at high speed .
Resulting clear fluid + normal red cells = no agglutination .
Resulting clear fluid + immune red cells ( pernicious anaemia ) = marked agglutination ( as before ) .
It is interesting to note here that in the series of experiments with normal blood , when marked agglutination of the red cells occurred with the serum of another normal person , similar specificity could definitely be demonstrated .
Heated Bed Cells.\#151 ; In the c Proceedings of the Royal Society '* a few observations were made as to whether heated red blood corpuscles still retained their specific properties .
In these experiments it wTas found that thoroughly washed red cells heated at 60 ' C. for one hour were still capable of removing the agglutinative properties of a serum , as was the case with the unheated cells .
The technique adopted in these experiments has already been given in detail .
In those examples about to be referred to varying ranges of temperature have been employed from 66 ' C. up to boiling point .
We have found that red cells heated to a temperature of 66 ' C. for one hour , or at 100 ' C. for half an hour , are still able to render a suitable serum inactive when carried to the point of saturation .
The following experiment will serve as an illustration:\#151 ; * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , p. 214 .
70 Messrs. Dudgeon and Wilson .
On the Presence of [ Sept. 11 , Immune pneumonic serum when added to normal red cells produced marked agglutination , but when added to the auto-red cells no effect was produced .
Two samples of each type of red cell were placed in suitable sealed glass tubes and heated ( i ) at 95 ' C. for 30 minutes , ( ii ) at 63 ' C. for one hour .
The same immune serum was then saturated with these red cells for 12 hours at 37 ' C. , the clear fluid obtained from each mixture after centrifugalisation had been completed was added to normal red cells and the pneumonic red cells as in the experiments previous to saturation ; it was now found that the clear fluid obtained after the immune serum had been saturated with the normal red cells at both ranges of temperature failed to agglutinate normal red cells .
In another instance red cells which had been exposed to a temperature of 100 ' C. for 30 minutes were capable of removing the specific agglutinative action of a certain serum , and this result could be shown to be strictly specific .
Dried Red Cells.\#151 ; It was thought possible that , as red cells which had been exposed to high temperature were still capable of exerting their specific action , similar results might be obtained with dried red cells .
The technique adopted in these experiments was as follows:\#151 ; Various samples of citrated red blood corpuscles were thoroughly washed in normal saline , and then freed as far as possible from saline .
The thick suspensions of the various red cells were placed in watch-glasses and dried in a partial vacuum over chloride of calcium , the entire process of drying lasting some 12 to 24 hours .
The dried blood was then pounded in an agate mortar to a fine brick-dust powder ; samples of sera were then saturated with these dried and pounded red cells .
The technique for the experiments on saturation was similar to that already referred to with the heated red cells , and the results were likewise similar , that is to say , red cells thoroughly dried and pounded were still capable of preserving their specific functions , as this experiment will serve to illustrate .
A mixture of normal serum and jaundiced red cells gave rise to marked agglutination ; this serum , when saturated with these dried and pounded red cells , was no longer capable of agglutinating them , but it was still able to agglutinate other samples of red cells which it had been able to do previous to saturation .
Sand.\#151 ; Since red cells which have been exposed to these high temperatures although so physically altered are still capable of exerting a specific agglutinative action , it was thought that sand heated to a similar temperature might give rise to identical results , but it was found from experimental observations to be inert .
1909 .
] Hami - agglutinins , etc. , in the Blood .
Hcemolysins .
Numerous additional observations have been made in regard to haemolysins , and , as stated in the previous report , it is only comparatively rarely that a well-marked haemolytic action is obtained .
In those cases in which haemolysis occurs haem-agglutination is always present , but the more marked the haemolysis in certain instances the less marked the haem-agglutination .
In some instances the haemolytic mixtures were put straight into ice for 1 hour , and then into the water-bath at 37 ' C. for 1| hours .
In the second report it was stated that " the final results in all cases were similar , " but in this series of cases we have found that the effect of this method was to reduce the haemolytic intensity of the mixture , while , in some cases , the haemolytic action was completely abolished .
It was thought possible , by heating a serum at 60 ' C. for 15 to 20 minutes and then fully complementing it with another serum , auto-haemolysis might be excited , but in no instance did this occur .
Splenic Extract.\#151 ; Further observations have been made in connection with the haemolytic action of splenic juice , but all results concerning that subject in this report have been negative .
In the case of acute miliary tuberculosis , although the immune serum possessed a high degree of hsemolytic action for normal red cells , yet the splenic juice failed to act .
A similar result was also obtained in a fatal case of acute lobar pneumonia .
On the other hand , it was pointed out in the second report that the splenic extract obtained from a case of diabetic coma completely haemolysed normal red cells and the auto-immune red cells , while the immune serum was inert in the latter instance , and was of very limited value in the former .
Jaundice.\#151 ; Attention has previously been drawn to a case of jaundice in which auto-haemolysis occurred ; further observations , however , have failed to record another example .
Additional cases of jaundice from all possible causes have been examined for the purpose of ascertaining whether the presence of bile pigment in the blood serum favours iso-haemolysis , but no direct connection can be traced .
In those instances in which haemolysis has occurred the cases have been almost entirely due to malignant growths .
The Resistance of the Red Cells to Water containing Sodium Chloride of various Strengths .
H. P. Hawkins and one of us ( L. S. D.)* showed that the red cells in two cases of congenital cholaemia were especially susceptible to the action of hypotonic solutions of sodium chloride .
These observations have since been confirmed * The Quarterly Journal of Medicine , ' January , 1909 , vol , 2 , No. 6 , p , 165 .
72 Messrs. Dudgeon and Wilson .
On the Presence of [ Sept. 11 , by Hutchison and Pan ton.* This investigation was undertaken with the idea that the red cells under various pathological conditions would show wide variations in their susceptibility to saline solutions , more especially in such diseases as pernicious anaemia and the severe septic infections .
Technique.\#151 ; In all cases a standardised 1-per-cent , solution of sodium chloride was made up in fresh distilled water , and from this solution various strengths of sodium chloride were added to small glass tubes arranged in series , in equal volumes ; usually the first tube contained 1 per cent , sodium chloride , and the last OT per cent. The blood was obtained from the patient 's thumb under light pressure in the same capillary tube as was employed for making the saline dilutions .
Each tube contained , therefore , 10 equal volumes of saline , and one volume of blood amounting to 1/ 11th of the total .
The whole was mixed thoroughly and allowed to stand at room temperature ; no advantage was derived either from storing at 37 ' C. or in ice .
As already stated , most interesting results were obtained in two cases of congenital cholsemia ; here haemolysis occurred in a solution of sodium chloride up to 0'6 per cent. In one case of virulent erysipelas a similar result was obtained , but otherwise the blood in various pathological conditions showed little variation from the normal , that is to say , haemolysis was prevented in a mixture containing 0-4 per cent , sodium chloride , and a positive reaction occurred in a 0'3-per-cent , solution .
In all these experiments , with the exceptions referred to , the susceptibility of the red cell fell within the limits of the normal , and no further information could be obtained although the technique was modified in various ways , such as washing the red cells and adding sodium citrate in definite proportions , and working with a neutral fluid .
Phagocytosis .
In this report numerous experiments have been completed concerning bacterial phagocytosis .
In the first series of experiments the serum and leucocytes obtained from apparently healthy persons were compared as to their respective activity .
In every instance strains of the Bacillus coli or the Staphylococcus aureus were employed ; and the number of leucocytes was approximately the same in the various samples of blood .
Other observations were made by comparing the immune serum from different diseases with normal leucocytes obtained from apparently healthy people , and * 'The Quarterly Journal of Medicine , ' July , 1909 .
1909 .
] Hcem-agglutinins , etc. , the Blood .
conversely , normal serum was allowed to act in the presence of immune leucocytes obtained from various diseases .
It was thought that the different results which were obtained when the serum from one case was mixed with the red cells and leucocytes of another might be due partly to haemolysis or to a process of de-opsonisation owing to the mixture of serum with suitable red cells .
Robert Muir and Martin , in a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , '* showed that a serum could be largely de-opsonised by saturation with various substances , among them suitable red blood corpuscles .
In their experiments suitable red cells and serum were allowed to remain in contact at 37 ' C. for a considerable period of time .
If the various results obtained by allowing a normal serum to act in the presence of normal leucocytes and red cells , as compared with the immune serum with normal red cells and leucocytes , were partly dependent upon a haemolytic action , this change would have to take place during a period of 15 to 20 minutes , because this is the time commonly employed for the incubation of phagocytic mixtures .
The prolonged periods of time as used in saturation experiments would be unsuitable to explain the different results obtained in so short a period of incubation as 15 to 20 minutes .
In every observation on phagocytosis carried out in these experiments records were also made as to whether haem-agglutination and haemolysis occurred .
Attempts were made to ascertain whether it was possible to prove the actual part played by haemolysis.f The technique employed to elucidate these points was as follows:\#151 ; The serum which was being examined for its power of exciting phagocytosis was saturated with the washed red cells belonging to the phagocytic mixture ; the whole was placed in glass tubes sealed and incubated at a temperature of 37 ' C. for 15 minutes .
The tubes were then centrifugalised at high speed and the clear fluid was compared with the serum previous to saturation .
Control experiments were conducted with a mixture of serum and red cells in which no agglutination or haemolysis occurred .
The first series of observations conducted along these lines concerns the blood obtained from apparently healthy individuals .
Normal serum ( L)-t- normal leucocytes ( R ) + Staphylococcus aureus , 50 cells = 270 cocci .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 79 , May , 1907 , Robert Muir and Martin .
t It has been found from experimental observations that the highest phagocytic readings occur with specimens of blood in which haemolysis can be demonstrated , although notable exceptions do occur .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; B. G 74 Messrs. Dudgeon and Wilson .
On the Presence of [ Sept. After the serum had been saturated with the red cells in the manner described for 15 minutes at 37 ' C. , the following result was obtained:\#151 ; The " serum " + normal leucocytes ( R ) + Staphylococcus aureus , 50 cells = 94 cocci .
In this experiment it was shown that L. 's serum had a powerful haemolytic action on B. 's red cells , and we find as a result of saturating this serum with these red cells that there is a reduction of phagocytic activity from 270 to 94 in so short a time as 15 minutes .
A control experiment conducted with R. 's serum and R. 's leucocytes showed 155 cocci in 50 cells before saturation , and 148 following saturation , while with R. 's serum and P. 's leucocytes 176 cocci were engulfed , and subsequent to saturation 168 cocci\#151 ; in both these experiments neither haemolysis nor haem-agglutination occurred .
We have here , therefore , an instance of a certain normal serum which is markedly haemolytic for normal red blood corpuscles , and in which greatly reduced phagocytosis could be demonstrated by saturating it with these red cells for 15 minutes .
It must be pointed out here , however , that in some instances , although haemolysis occurs , there is no striking decrease in phagocytosis when the serum is saturated with suitable red cells for a period of 15 minutes at 37 ' C. It can also be stated , as a result of a very large number of observations , that a reduced phagocytosis is entirely related to haemolysis , and is unaffected by the presence of haem-agglutinins .
Similar results can be shown when an immune serum acts in the presence of normal leucocytes .
In the experiment to be recorded the immune serum had a powerful haemolytic action on the normal red cells .
Immune serum + normal leucocytes + Staphylococcus aureus , 50 cells = 388 cocci .
The serum was saturated with the normal red cells for 15 minutes at 37 ' C. , and then centrifugalised at high speed .
When the serum , after saturation , was added to the same leucocytes and cocci , 50 cells contained 146 cocci .
In a control experiment with the normal serum and normal leucocytes obtained from the same individual , in which there was an absence of haemolysis , there was only a very slight reduction in phagocytosis .
In the next experiment the immune serum from one case was allowed to act in the presence of immune red cells of another .
Immune serum ( A ) + immune leucocytes ( B ) + B. coli , 50 cells = 249 bacilli .
2909 .
] Haem , -agglutinins , etc. , in the Blood .
75 Experiment was repeated after the same serum had been saturated in the manner indicated for\#151 ; | hour at 37 ' C. , 50 cells = 146 bacilli .
1 hour at 37 ' C. , 50 cells = 100 bacilli .
In this instance the immune serum ( A ) was found to be powerfully haemolytic on immune red cells ( B ) , but on the other hand the same red cells were haemolysed by another sample of immune serum , but in this instance there was no marked reduction in phagocytosis after saturation for a quarter of an hour at 37 ' C. In a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Eoyal Society/ * by Mr. Shattock in conjunction with one of us ( L. S. D. ) , it was shown that leucocytes obtained from different sources may vary in their phagocytic value like the serum .
From numerous observations conducted along the same lines by us a large amount of confirmatory evidence has been collected .
A few instances may be cited to illustrate these remarks ( a ) Normal serum + normal leucocytes + Staphylococcus cilbus .
50 cells = 254 cocci .
The same serum , however , when added to immune leucocytes , which were obtained from the patient from whom this identical organism was grown in pure culture , and the Staphylococcus albus showed 106 cocci in 50 cells .
While the immune serum obtained from this case , when added to the normal leucocytes referred to above and the cocci , gave 388 cocci in 50 cells .
( b ) Immune serum of pulmonary tuberculosis acting in the presence of its own leucocytes and cocci showed 174 cocci in 50 leucocytes , but when this immune serum acted in the presence of normal leucocytes and the same staphylococci , 50 cells contained 433 cocci .
( c ) One more experiment only will be referred to concerning this point .
Normal serum + normal leucocytes -{-Bacilluscoli ; 50 cells = 220 bacilli , but when the same serum acted in presence of leucocytes from a case of acute lobar pneumonia , 50 cells = 83 bacilli .
In all these experiments on phagocytosis the serum was examined within a few hours of its removal from the body , and was free from blood tinging , and the various experiments were made at about the same period .
Robert Muir , in the paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' already referred to , furnished evidence to show that when a serum was saturated with suitable red cells the normal opsonin was removed .
In the experiments which we have brought forward on human blood in the present communication , we have similarly found that when a serum is saturated with * * Roy .
Soc. Proc./ B , vol. 80 , p. 165 .
76 Messrs. Dudgeon and Wilson .
On the Presence of [ Sept. 11 , suitable red cells its phagocytic value may be considerably reduced , but that this does not occur in a mixture in which haemolysis is absent .
It must be apparent from these results that the most accurate information on phagocytosis must be arrived at when the samples of blood are taken direct from the patient and not mixed with other blood .
In the experiments about to be referred to , serum and red cells were employed from the same patient , in which , therefore , no haemolysis would occur , and serum and red cells from different sources in which haemolysis could be demonstrated , and lastly serum and unsuitable red cells from different sources in which no haemolytic activity was evident .
The technique may be briefly described:\#151 ; The corpuscles were collected in the usual manner in citrated saline and then carefully washed in saline ; the surface layers were removed so as to get rid of as many leucocytes as possible , and a thick suspension of red cells was employed .
Equal volumes of the washed undiluted red cells and serum were thoroughly ground up in an agate mortar with finely powdered glass .
The mixture was then placed in glass tubes , sealed and incubated at 37 ' C. for one hour ; the tubes were centrifugalised at high speed , and a mixture in three layers was thus obtained , the uppermost consisting of bright red serum , the lowermost of tinged glass , and the intermediate of fragmented red cells .
Phagocytic experiments were !
then carried out ; the first tube contained untreated serum , leucocytes , and micro-organisms , the second tube the " red " serum , leucocytes , and micro-organisms .
In each case the leucocytes were obtained from the same mixture , and belonged to the same specimen of blood as had been employed in the experiments just referred to .
The serum before and after treatment was derived from the same source .
It was found , as a result of these experiments , that when a serum was treated in the manner indicated , whether it was mixed with red cells derived from the same source or different , or whether from the red cells which formed a haemolytic mixture or otherwise , the results were very similar .
For example:\#151 ; 1909 .
] Heem-agglutinins , etc. , the Blood .
No. of cells counted .
No. of bacilli in cells .
No. of nonactive phagocytes .
Experiment 1\#151 ; Untreated immune serum ( A ) + immune leucocytes ( A ) + B. colt .
50 177 2 Treated " " .\#187 ; \#187 ; 55 50 60 10 Experiment 2\#151 ; Untreated immune serum ( B ) + immune leucocytes ( B ) + B. coli .
50 167 6 Treated " " , , \#187 ; 5\gt ; 50 5 46 Experiment 3\#151 ; Untreated normal serum ( A ) + normal leucocytes ( A ) + B. coli .
50 168 5 Treated " " " " " 50 14 38 Experiment 4*\#151 ; r Untreated immune serum ( A ) + normal leucocytes ( A ) + B. coli .
50 324 | 4 Treated , , yy , , Jy \gt ; \gt ; 50 37 29 Experiment 5\#151 ; Untreated immune serum ( B ) + normal leucocytes ( A ) + B. coli .
50 233 1 Treated , , , , , , 50 59 20 Experiment 6\#151 ; Untreated normal serum ( A ) + immune leucocytes ( A ) + _B .
coli .
50 157 5 Treated " " " " " 50 59 18 * Active haemolysis was demonstrated .
It is evident that these results do not depend on a hsemolysing agent , because in five out of the six experiments neither agglutination nor haemolysis occurred , and yet the degree of phagocytosis was very considerably reduced .
Attention has already been drawn to the reduced phagocytosis occurring as a result of haemolysis , but from these experiments it has been shown that a similar result may be obtained by thoroughly grinding red cells in serum front the same individual and from other sources apart from true haemolysis .
This action may depend upon the removal from the serum of incitor substances , or by the addition to the serum of specific substances derived from the red blood corpuscles , or lastly through non-specific substances common to all red cells .
Further experimental observations are necessary to prove what these results are dependent upon .
VOL. lxxxii.\#151 ; B. H

