1874 ] On the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
293 the same distance\#151 ; which can be expressed in other terms by saying that the length of the first cardio-radial interval , from which that of the syspasis has been subtracted , ought to be exactly the same as that of the second cardio-radial interval .
That such is the case is proved by the measurement of the lengths of these two intervals independently : and it is found that in all cases they agree three places of decimals , which is great evidence in favour of the accuracy of the methods and arguments employed .
The latter part of the paper is occupied with the description of , and the results obtained by , the employment of a double sphvgmograph , by means of which simultaneous tracings are taken from two arteries at different distances from the heart .
The arteries experimented on are the radial at the wrist and the posterior tibial just behind the ankle , 29 and 52-5 inches respectively from the aortic valves .
From the resulting tracings , the time occupied by the pulse-wave in travelling the difference of distance ( 52-5\#151 ; 29= ) , 23-5 inches , is found and stated to be 0-0012 of a minute in a pulse of 75 a minute ; and it is shown that this varies very little with differences in pulse-rate , as might have been previously expected ; it is also proved that there is an appreciable acceleration the movement of the pulse-wave as it gets further from the heart .
By superposing the simultaneous trace from the wrist on that from the ankle , direct verification is obtained of the earlier proposition\#151 ; that the sphygmosystole at the wrist and that at the ankle are of exactly similar duration .
The peculiarities of the ankle-trace are also referred to .
II .
" Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal.^ By Herbert Watney , M.A. Cantab .
Communicated by Dr. Sanderson , F.R.S. , Professor of Practical Physiology , University College .
Received March 10 , 1874 .
The following results relating to the anatomy of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal were obtained in the laboratory of the Brown Institution .
The researches were carried out under the direction of Dr. Klein .
1 .
Connective-tissue corpuscles amongst the epithelium.\#151 ; In specimens hardened in chromic acid and alcohol and stained in hsematoxylin , structures are constantly seen among the columnar epithelium of the intestinal tract in many animals ( as monkey , sheep , cat , dog , rat , rabbit ) which belong to the connective tissue .
These are :\#151 ; ( 1 ) a delicate reticulum , which is continuous with that formed by the most superficial layer of connective-tissue corpuscles ( the basement membrane ) ; ( 2 ) round nucleated cells , exactly similar to those of the mucosa .
YOL .
XXII .
n .
294 On the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
[ Apr. 23 , This is the case at the pyloric end of the stomach , on the villi , over Peyer 's patches , and in Lieberkiihn 's glands .
2 .
The lining endothelium of the lymph-vessels of the mucosa is in anatomical continuity with the reticulum of nucleated cells ( connective-tissue stroma ) ; so that it may " he said the endothelial cells of the lymphatic vessel are only transformed connective-tissue corpuscles .
3 .
In animals killed during the absorption of fat ( cream ) the fat can be seen in preparations stained by osmic acid as small black particles ( 1st ) arranged in lines between or around the epithelial cells ; ( 2ndly ) in the basement membrane ; ( 3rdly ) as has been noticed by many previous observers , in the connective-tissue stroma of the villus , whence it can be traced into the lymph-vessel .
This indicates that the fat is absorbed by the processes of the connective tissue which exist between the epithelial cells , and thence finds its way by the connective-tissue stroma to the lymph-vessel .
4 .
The reticulum of nucleated cells of the mucosa forms a special sheath to the vessels and unstriped muscular tissue .
In the villi the muscular bundles , having approached the apex , terminate , the connective tissue which forms their sheath being continuous with the corpuscles forming the basement membrane .
In the mucosa of the colon of the rabbit the slender muscle-bands divide into single muscle-fibres , on which the common sheath is continued .
This sheath becomes often connected with peculiar large , oval , nucleated cells lying close under the epithelium .
5 .
State of the mucous glands of the tongue in rest and It has been found , in accordance with the researches of Professor von Ebner , of Graz , that there are two kinds of acinous glands in the tongue , which have been distinguished as serous and mucous\#151 ; the former being always found in relation to the papillae vallatse and circumvallatse , the latter always at the root of the tongue and partially surrounding the former .
In the course of the present inquiry it has been further found ( in sections stained in haematoxylin and carmine , made from the hardened tongue of an animal which had been left for a few hours without food ) that the two kinds of glands are coloured red and blue respectively ; but in sections of the tongue of an animal killed while feeding , both kinds of glands were stained red , while any mucus in the duct of the mucous glands was stained blue\#151 ; showing that , in the state of inanition , the cells of the mucous glands contain mucus , while , during secretion , the cell-substance is affected by the staining fluids in a manner not unlike that in which ordinary cell-substance would be acted on .

