II .
- .
When pulverised guaiacum is digested in a moderate heat with distilled water , an opaque solution is formed , which becomes clear on passing the whole through a filter .
The filtrated liquor is of a greenish-brown colour ; it has a peculiar smell , and a sweetish taste .
It leaves on evaporation a brown substance , which is soluble in alcohol , nearly soluble in boiling water , and very little acted upon by sulphuric ether .
This solution was examined by the following re-agents .
Muriate of alumina occasioned a brown insoluble precipitate after some hours had elapsed .
Muriate of tin formed a brown flaky precipitate under the same circumstances .
Nitrate of silver gave a copious brown precipitate .
Suspecting the presence of lime in the solution , I added a few drops of oxalate of ammonia , when the liquid immediately became turbid , and deposited brown flakes , which , after having been treated with boiling alcohol , yielded traces of oxalate of lime .
These effects , therefore , indicate the presence of a substance in guaiacum , which possesses the properties of extract ; * the action of the reagent is however somewhat modified , by a small quantity of lime which is also in solution .
One hundred grains of guaiacum yielded about nine grains of this impure extractive matter .
Alcohol dissolves guaiacum with facility , leaving some extraneous matter , which generally amounts to about 5 per cent. This solution is of a deep brown colour ; the addition of water separates the resin , forming a milky fluid which passes the filter .
Acids produce the following changes : A. Muriatic acid throws down an ash-coloured precipitate , which is not re-dissolved by heating the mixture .
In this case the resin appears but little altered .
B. Liquid oxy-muriatic acid when poured into this solution , forms a precipitate of a very beautiful pale-blue colour , which may be preserved unaltered .
C. Sulphuric acid , when not added in too large a quantity , separates the resin of a pale green colour .
D. Acetic acid does not form any precipitate .
This acid is indeed capable of dissolving most of the resins .
E. Nitric acid diluted with one-fourth of its weight of water , causes no precipitate till after the period of some hours .
The liquid at first assumes a green colour , and if water be added at this period , a green precipitate may be obtained ; the green colour soon changes to blue , ( when by the same means a blue precipitate may be obtained ; ) it then becomes brown , and a brown precipitate spontaneously makes its appearance , the properties of which will be afterwards mentioned .
The changes of colour produced by nitric , and oxy-muriatic acids , in the alcoholic solution , are very remarkable , and I believe peculiar to guaiacum : there is moreover much reason to suppose that the above alterations in colour are occasioned N2 91 by oxygen.* It likewise appears from that which has been stated , that the blue and green oxides ( if they may be so called by way of distinction ) are soluble in the mixture of nitric acid and alcohol , while the brown precipitate is insoluble .
F. Alkalis do not form any precipitate when added to the solution of guaiacum in alcohol .
3 .
Guaiacum is less soluble in sulphuric ether than in alcohol ; the properties of this solution nearly coincide with those j List mentioned .
4 .
Muriatic acid dissolves a small portion of guaiacum , the solution assuming a deep brown colour ; but if heat be applied , the resin melts into a blackish mass , preventing any farther action from taking place .
5 .
Sulphuric acid forms with guaiacum a deep red liquid , which , when fresh prepared , deposits a lilac coloured precipitate on the addition of water ; a precipitate is also formed by the alkalis .
If heat be employed in forming this solution , the resin is speedily decomposed ; and if the whole of the acid be evaporated , there remains a black coaly substance , together with some sulphate of lime .
6 .
Nitric acid appears to exert a more powerful action on guaiacum than on any of the resinous bodies .
100oo grains of pure guaiacum previously reduced to powders were cautiously added to two ounces of nitric acid , of the specific gravity of 1.39 .
The resin at first assumed a dark green colour , a violent effervescence was produced , attended with the emission of much nitrous gas , and the whole was dissolved without the assistance of heat , which is not the case with the resins in general , for when these bodies are thus treated with nitric acid , they are commonly converted into an orange-coloured porous mass .
The solution thus formed , yielded while recent , a brown precipitate with the alkalis , which was redissolved on the application of heat , forming a deep brown liquid .
Muriatic acid also separated the guaiacum from this solution , not however without having undergone some change .
Sulphuric acid caused no precipitate .
After this solution of guaiacum in nitric acid had remained undisturbed for some hours , a considerable proportion of crystallised oxalic acid was deposited .
When guaiacum was treated with dilute nitric acid , the results were somewhat different .
A slight effervescence took place , and part of the resin was dissolved , the remainder being converted into a. brown substance , resembling the precipitate obtained from the alcoholic solution as above mentioned .
( 2 .
E , ) 93 This brown substance appears to be guaiacum , the properties of which are materially altered , by its combination with oxygen ; and I am led to think that the changes of colour produced by nitric and oxy-muriatic acids , are the consequence of the different proportions of oxygen with which the guaiacum has been united ; for we know that the colours of metallic , and many other bodies , are greatly influenced by the same cause .
The brown substance was separated by filtration ; the filtrated liquor yielded yellow flocculent precipitates with the alkalis , and on examination was found to hold nitrate of lime in solution .
The undissolved portion was of a deep chocolate-brown colour .
A similar substance m.ay also be obtained , by evaporating the recent nitric soludion to dryness , taking care not to apply too much heat towards the end of the process .
The substance obtained by either of these means , possesses the properties of a resin in greater perfection than guaiacum ; it is equally 0so1 ble in alcohol and sulphuric ether , insoluble in water , &amp;c. ; but when burned it emits a peculiar smell , more resembling aniTal than vegetable bodies .
If , however , fresh portions of nitric acld be added three or four times successively ; or if a larLre quantity be employed to form the solution ; the product obtained by evaporation is then of a very dillffrent nature ; for it has lost all the characteristic properties of a resin , having become equally soluble in water and alcohol ; the solution of it in this state having an astringent bitter taste.* Guaiacum is copiously soluble in the pure and carbonated alkalis , forming greenish-brown liquids .
Two ounces of a saturated solution of caustic potash took up rather more than 65 grains of the resin ; the same quantity of liquid ammonia dissolved -only 25 grains .
Nitric acid formed in these solutions a deep brown precipitate , the shades of which varied according to the quantity of acid which had been employed .
This precipitate was found on examination to possess the properties of -that forld by nitric acid in the solution of guaiacum ( 2 .
E. ) in alcohol .
Dilute sulphuric acid , when poured into any of the above alkaline solutions , formed a flesh-coloured curdy precipitate .
Muriatic acid produced the same effect .
The two last mentioned precipitates differ from guaiacum , in being less acted upon by sulphuric ether and more soluble in boiling water , their properties therefore approach nearer to extract .
Moreover , when these precipitates weredissolved in ammonia , and were again separated by muriatic acid , the above mentioned properties became more evident .
95 III .
ioo grains of very pure guaiacum in powder , were put into a glass retort , to which the usual apparatus was adapted .
The distillation was gradually performed on an open fire , until the bottom of the retort became red hot .
The following products were obtained : Grains .
Acidulated water 5.5 Thick brown oil , becoming turbid on cooling 24.5 Thin empyreumatic oil 30.0 Coal remaining in the retort 30.5 Mixed gases , consisting chiefly of carbonic acid and carbonated hydrogen 9.0 99.5 The coal , amounting to 30.5 grains , yielded on incineration 3 grains of lime .
To discover whether any fixed alkali was present , 2oo grains of the purest guaiacum ( that in drops ) were reduced to ashes ; these were dissolved in muriatic acid , and precipitated by ammonia ; the whole was then filtrated , and the clear liquor evaporated to dryness , but not any trace of a neutral salt with a basis of fixed alkali was perceptible . ?
IV .
From the action of different solvents on guaiacum , it appears , that although this substance possesses many properties in common with resinous bodies , it nevertheless differs from them in the following particulars : i. By affording a portion of vegetable extract .
~ .
By the curious alterations which it undergoes when 96 subjected to the action of bodies , which readily communicate oxygen , such as nitric and oxy-muriatic acids ; and the rapidity with which it dissolves in the former .
3 .
By being converted into a more perfect resin ; in which respect guaiacum bears some resemblance to the green resin which constitutes the colouring matter of the leaves of trees , &amp;c. * 4 .
By yielding oxalic acid .
5 .
By the quantity of charcoal and lime which are obtained from it when subjected to destructive distillation . ?
V. From the whole therefore of the above mentioned properties , it evidently appears that guaiacum is a substance very different from those which are denominated resins , and that it is also different from all those which are enumerated amongst the balsams , gum resins , gums , and extracts : most probably it is a substance distinct in its nature from any of the above , in consequence of certain peculiarities in the proportions and chemical combination of its constituent elementary principles ; but as this opinion may be thought not sufficiently supported by the facts which have been adduced , we may for the present be allowed to regard guaiacum as composed of a resin modified by the vegetable extractive on Gviaiacum , principle , and as such , perhaps the definition of it by the term of an Extracto-Resin may be adopted without impropriety .
P. $ .
I have observed that the action of oxygen on some of the other resinous bodies is very remarkable .
It is well known that by digesting mastich in alcohol , a partial solution only is formed , and there remains an elastic substance , which is generally said to possess the properties of pure caoutchouc ; it appears however to differ from this substance in becoming hard when dried by exposure to.air .
Moreover , I have remarked that the part of mastich which remains dissolved by alcohol , may be again precipitated by water , and , on examination , I found the precipitate to possess the properties of a pure resin : but when a stream of oxy-muriatic acid gas was made to pass through the solution , a tough elastic substance was thrown down , which became brittle when dried , and was soluble in boiling alcohol , but separated again as the solution cooled : its properties , therefore , somewhat approached to those of the original insoluble part , IV .
Chemical Experiments on Guaiacum .
By Mr. William Brand .
Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F. R. S. Read December 19 , 1805 , AMONG the numerous substances which are comprehended under the name of resins , there is perhaps no one which possesses so many curious properties , as that now under consideration ; and it is remarkable that no more attention has been paid to the subject , since many of the alterations which it undergoes when treated with different solvents , have been mentioned by various authors . ?
I. Guaiacum has a green hue externally ; is in some degree transparent ; and breaks with a vitreous fracture .
When pulverised it is of a gray colour , but gradually becomes greenish on exposure to air .
It melts when heated , and diffuses at the same time a pungent aromatic odour .
It has when in powder a pleasant balsamic smell , but scarcely any taste , although when swallowed it excites a very powerful burning sensation in the throat .
Its specific gravity is 1.2289 .

