December 1 , 1845 .
At the Anniversary Meeting , The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
Captain Smyth , on the part of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , reported , that the total receipts during the past year , inclusive of a balance of 19401 .
12s .
8d .
, carried from the account of the preceding year , amounted to 51101 .
lls .
3d .
; and that the total amount of payments in the same period amounted to 30331 .
19s .
5d .
, leaving a balance in the hands of the Treasurer of 20761 .
11s .
lOd .
The thanks of the Meeting were given to the Auditors for the trouble they have taken in examining the Treasurer 's Accounts .
The Secretary then read the following lists of deceased Fellows of the Royal Society , and of those admitted into the Society since the last Anniversary in 1844 .
List of Fellows of the Royal Society deceased since the last Anniversary ( 1844 ) .
On the Home List .
David Francis Atcherley , Esq. George Basevi , Esq. George Henry Law , Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells .
Rev. William Frederick Baylay .
John Laurens Bicknell , Esq. Samuel Bosanquet , Esq. Right Hon. .
William Sturges Bourne .
John Frederic Daniell , Esq. , For .
Secretary .
Rev. Henry Coddington .
Very Rev. Edmund Goodenough , Dean of Wells .
William Heberden , M.D. Thomas Phillips , Esq. , R.A. John Ramsbottom , Esq. Martin Tupper , Esq. The Marquis of Westminster , K.G. Sir Isaac Wilson , Knt. , M.D. On the Foreign List .
L Theodore de Saussure .
Le Comte de Cassini .
Ceased to be Fellows in default of their Annual Payments .
Robert Grymbald Bigsby , Esq. Rev. George Glover , Archdeacon Henry Napier , Esq. , Capt. R.N. of Sudbury .
List of Admissions into the Royal Society since the last Anniversary ( 1844 ) .
On the Home List .
Adair , Robert Shafto , Esq. Bandon , Right Hon. the Earl of .
Barlow , Peter William , Esq. Barrow , John , jun .
, Esq. Dickenson , John , Esq. Falconer , Hugh , M.D. Forbes , Edward , Esq. Fownes , George , Esq. Harrison , Thomas Charles , Esq. Jackson , Colonel Julius .
Johnston , Alexander Robert , Esq. Martin , James Ranald , Esq. Miller , William Allen , M.D. Monteith , Major-Gen .
William .
Rennie , James , Esq. Simon , John , Esq. Sopwith , Thomas , Esq. Stebbing , Rev. Henry , D.D. Taylor , Alfred Swain , Esq. Thesiger , Sir Frederick .
Tupper , Martin Farquhar , Esq. Washington , John , Esq. , Capt. R.N. Wilson , Erasmus , Esq. Wilson , Rev. John , D.D. The President then addressed the Meeting as follows : GENTLEMEN , I DEEPLY regret that I have to commence my address to you by lamenting , in common with the whole Society , that after many years of the most valuable services , Sir John Lubbock has resigned the situation of your Treasurer .
As he is now not generally resident in London , he feels the inconvenience of the necessary attendance on your business so great , that we cannot further urge his retention of that important office .
I am quite sure that I shall be no unfaithful interpreter of your feelings when I thus publicly express your thanks and regrets , as well as my own , and those of your Council .
The practice which has been recently introduced of stating as far as possible at the conclusion of one meeting , the subjects of papers to be read on the following Thursday , will , I have no doubt , be found most useful , and can , I think , be accompanied by no drawbacks .
I am aware that the introduction of discussion on papers after they have been read can hardly be expected to meet with universal concurrence .
It may certainly be attended with some inconvenience .
It therefore appears to me to be indispensably necessary that the President , or the Vice-President in the Chair , should have , and exercise the absolute power , both of abstaining from an invitation to discuss papers , which from their abstract nature , or from any other cause are little calculated for discussion , and also of checking conversation when it becomes either intemperate and personal , inconveniently long , or in any other manner not desirable to be continued .
So checked and guarded , I believe that it will give our meetings more spirit and more interest , and will at the same time promote the investigation of physical truth , and so most efficiently fulfil the objects for which the Society itself was instituted .
It appears to me , and your present Council have concurred in the opinion , that the period of our Anniversary , in the gloomy month of November , and at a time when London is comparatively deserted , is extremely inconvenient .
It is very inconvenient for your Council itself , which is obliged more than once to assemble for the purpose of preliminary arrangements before the commencement of our autumnal evening meetings .
It is also very inconvenient to the body at large , and in truth has a tendency to restrict the assembly of our members on the important day of the election of the new Council to those who are resident in London .
At the time when St. Andrew 's day was selected , the London season commenced much earlier than it now does , and it was probably the best fitted for securing a large attendance .
I shall certainly , if I again occupy the honourable situation of your President , bring the question before your new Council , but it is not yet clear how this inconvenience can be obviated .
The magnetic observations that have now for several years been carried on simultaneously at different establishments by our own and other governments , were not undertaken by Her Majesty 's Government for a longer period than the termination of the present year .
It was therefore deemed advisable to invite the conductors of those observations in foreign countries , to communicate their opinions in writing , and after doing so , to come over to England at the time of the meeting of the British Association .
It was proposed then to hold a congress for the consideration of the propriety of continuing the magnetic observations .
Such a congress met at Cambridge last summer , probably the largest combination of men of the highest attainments in science from every part of Europe that ever met together in a scientific parliament , whose object was the solution of some of the most interesting problems in natural philosophy .
There were to be seen together the Astronomers Royal of England and Ireland , Dr. Lloyd , and Colonel Sabine , who had taken the most active part in arranging and combining the joint magnetic operations , Sir John Herschel , the President of the British Association , his immediate predecessors the Dean of Ely , and Lord Rosse , and many other gentlemen whom the Royal Society is proud to name among her Fellows , together with the representatives of the highest science of the continent .
That , as your President , I should have had the opportunity of taking even the humblest part in such a meeting will ever be esteemed by me one of the highest honours to which your too favourable consideration has raised me .
After anxious deliberation , the Congress recommended to the British Government and to the East India Company the continuation of the observations on a modified , and in some respects a reduced scale .
To the Council of the Royal Society , some of whose members had already taken an active part in the deliberations of the Congress , I reported the resolutions adopted at Cambridge , and the Council unanimously agreed to recommend them also to Sir Robert Peel .
I therefore signified our wishes to the Prime Minister and to the Directors of the East India Company ; I rejoice to say that they have both given their consent to the adoption of the united recommendation of the Royal Society and the British Association , and it only remains for me to express to them the gratitude of the world of science .
I have strong reasons to believe that the other governments who have carried on joint observations with us , will also continue them with some modification , and thus that we shall continue to see the world united by important scientific inquiries carried on in common , -a pledge of peace and friendship , and a proof of the growing conviction that it is the real interest of every civilized government to promote physical science .
I am happy to be able to announce the safe return to the Cape of Good Hope of the vessel which , at the request of the Royal Society , was sent by Her Majesty 's Government under the direction of Lieut. T. E. L. Moore of the Royal Navy , and Lieut. Henry Clerk of the Royal Artillery , to complete the magnetic survey of the high latitudes of the southern hemisphere , of which three-fourths had previously been accomplished by the expedition under Sir James Clark Ross .
The Pagoda left the Cape of Good Hope in January last , making a course to the southward in the meridian of Greenwich , until her further progress in that direction was stopped by the ice in the vicinity of the Antarctic Circle .
Thence she proceeded to the eastward , keeping as near the edge of the ice as circumstances would permit , until the close of the season of navigation in those latitudes , when she had passed the meridian of 120 ?
E. and had connected her survey with that of Sir James Ross 's expedition .
Lieutenants Moore and Clerk are on their way to England with their magnetic observations , of which the results will eventually be presented to the Royal Society .
I am happy to add , that this service has been performed without accident or loss of life .
Since our last Anniversary , Sir John Franklin and Captain Crozier have left the shores of England for the purposes of discovery in the other cold regions of the globe .
As the Government previously consulted the Council of the Royal Society on the importance of such an expedition to the cause of geographical science , we must naturally feel a deep interest in its success .
It would be presumptuous to speculate on the solution of the problem of a Northwest Passage .
Barriers of ice may prove insurmountable , but we may confidently trust that every thing will be done that energy and experienced skill can effect , by an expedition which goes out with mechanical advantages that attended none of the former attempts of a Parry and a Ross .
The year that has now elapsed has had thrown over it a dark gloom by a most melancholy and awful event .
I need not say that I allude to the deeply lamented death of our late Foreign Secretary , Mr. Daniell .
That a soldier should fall in the battle-field , or that a sailor should meet with a glorious death on the deck of a man-ofwar , or lose his life in the storms that have wrecked so many gallant vessels , seems a natural as well as honourable termination to the career of each .
Professor Daniell 's valuable life came to a close as sudden , while he was engaged in performing his duty as a man of science-his duty as one of our officers-in his attendance on one of our Councils-an awful proof of the uncertainty of human life , even while no danger seems to impend .
We propose , in the room of Mr. Daniell , Colonel Sabine as your Foreign Secretary ; a gentleman not only ardently zealous for science in general , but also one of those who have taken the most active share in those magnetical inquiries to which I have already adverted , and which are so interesting to the Royal Society from our part in them since their commencement .
These magnetical inquiries have occasioned much necessary intercourse between Colonel Sabine and the scientific men of the continent , and therefore form an additional recommendation of that gentleman as our Foreign Secretary .
In recommending an engineer so eminent as Mr. Rennie to the office of Treasurer , I need hardly advert to the scientific acquirements indispensable in his profession .
Nor is it necessary for me to remark , that it is an office that should be held by one that is a man of business as well as a philosopher , an union of qualities not found in all , though so happily united in a Bailey and a Lubbock ; but it is right in mentioning that profession for me to express my regret that gentlemen should have been publicly advertised as Fellows of this Society who do not possess that honour ; at the same time it is but fair to say , that in all probability the misstatement arose from mistake alone in the Secretaries of the advertising companies , and I entertain no doubt that greater care will be taken for the future to avoid similar errors .
Your Assistant Secretary , in his capacity of Librarian , has compiled a Catalogue of the Maps , Charts and Surveys , in the possession of the Society , which have been accumulating for many years .
These amount to several thousands , and they are now arranged in such a manner as to be immediately accessible to the Fellows .
Catalogues have also been made of the miscellaneous drawings and engravings of scientific subjects , and likewise of the valuable and interesting collection of portraits of the distinguished deceased Fellows of the Society .
The Library has been enriched during the past Session by a very perfect copy , on vellum , of the magnificent work , entitled ' Description de l'Egypte , ' consisting of nine volumes of letter-press , and fourteen imperial folio volumes containing 930 engravings , illustrative of the antiquities and natural history of Egypt .
It has also received the valuable present of a considerable number of Chinese books from Mr. Walker of Preston ; at present the Chinese language is so little known that these are likely to be useful to very few of our Fellows .
The increased facilities , however , now existing for communication with the great kingdom of China , will probably lead to much greater study of its difficult language , so that these works may become a very valuable and interesting portion of our Library .
Mr. ASTRONOMER ROYAL , It is now my duty to announce to you that a Royal Medal has been adjudged to you by the Council for your important inquiry into the Tides on the Coast of Ireland .
It is a great gratification to me to give a medal , conferred by his sovereign , to one to whom is committed the charge of the great scientific establishment of England , for investigations carried on with consummate scientific ability , connected with the mighty element on which his country has reaped so much glory , and to which she owes so much of her wealth and of her safety .
If the day of necessity should ever arrive , I doubt not that her sons will emulate the achievements of their predecessors .
Now , in the happier times of peace , it is gratifying to see British skill and British science gathering bloodless , but unperishing laurels on the same field , and by so doing ministering with no unselfish hand to the safety of all who pursue the avocations of commerce .
Mr. BECK , A Royal Medal has been adjudged to you by the Council of the Royal Society , complying thereby with the recommendation of the Committee of Physiology , for your researches into one of the most important subjects of anatomical inquiry * .
In presenting it to you , The report of the Committee of Physiology on the claims of Mr. Beck 's paper to the award of the Medal , is as follows:"The paper of Mr. Beck contains the result of an elaborate anatomical investigation of the Nerves of the Uterus , together with observations on the structure and connexions of the sympathetic nerve .
" By his researches the author has cleared up various points concerning the nerves of the uterus which have hitherto been doubtful or misunderstood .
He has determined more precisely than heretofore the source and mode of distribution of these nerves , and the real extent to which the organ is supplied with them .
The true nature of the nervous ganglia at the neck of the uterus , and of the plexuses formed by the sympathetic and sacral nerves in the same situation , is also satisfactorily made out , as well as the fact that the branches derived from the sacral nerves are not destined for the uterus , but are distributed to adjacent organs .
" With regard to the sympathetic nerve , it is shown that there are both grey and white separate branches of communication between that nerve and the spinal nerves .
This important fact has , it is true , been already pointed out in the recently published work of Todd and Bowman , but the author of the paper has nevertheless the merit of arriving at it independently , by his own observations .
He has further shown that the white and grey constituents of the nerve keep distinct from each other , not only in the socalled trunk of the sympathetic , but also in its primary branches , as far as the visceral ganglia , beyond which the white and grey parts become intermixed in the nerves distributed to the viscera .
The precise mode of connexion of the white and grey communicating branches with the spinal nerves is also carefully investigated .
These observations appear important as tending to throw light on the constitution of the sympathetic nerve and its relation to the rest of the nervous system .
" The Committee consider the paper of Mr. Beck as a most valuable contribution to the Anatomy of the nervous system , and as affording addiI may be allowed to express my hope that you will continue your researches , and that others of your profession may be encouraged to ( do so likewise , so that in the result our information may become more perfect and full than we yet possess on points of very difficult solution .
I trust that the consequence of discoveries thus made will be a diminution of those dangers , and an alleviation of those pains which are the price paid for the entry into the world of every human being .
The purpose for which the Royal Society was established was indeed the improvement of natural knowledge for its own sake ; but we can never forget that the privilege of acquiring that knowledge entails the duty of employing it to the utmost of our power , not only to the glory of Him who has given us our reasoning powers , but also to the service , as far as may be , of those who are His creatures .
Mr. OWEN , I have the pleasure of requesting you to transmit the Copley Medal to your friend Mr. Schwann , for his valuable work on the Analogies of Vegetables and Animals .
This subject is one of the deepest interest to the natural philosopher , for what can be more important than to trace those analogies by which the two great kingdoms of nature are united , and which show that the same wisdom has directed every portion of the creation ?
It is also a large and not easily exhausted field of inquiry , and being so , I trust that he who has already so ably cultivated it may reap from it still larger harvests of scientific discovery .
I now proceed to the biographical notices of some of our deceased members .
DR. WILLIAM HEBERDEN , the son of the eminent and accomplished author of the ' Commentaries on the History and Cure of Diseases , ' was born in London in the year 1767 .
At the early age of seven , he was sent to school at the Charter House , and appears to have there made rapid progress in the elementary branches of education .
His academical studies were pursued in St. John 's College , Cambridge , where he highly distinguished himself both by his mathematical and his classical acquirements .
Under his father 's tuition he applied himself with great diligence to his profession as a pupil of St. George 's Hospital , to which , at a subsequent period , he was appointed one of the Physicians .
He was elected a Fellow of this Society in the year 1791 : and in 1797 , became a Fellow of the College of Physicians .
His practice soon became tolerably extensive .
On the death of Sir George Baker in 1809 , he succeeded him tional and more precise data for physiological reasoning respecting the nerves to which it refers .
On these grounds , as well as on account of the consummate skill and devoted perseverance displayed by the author in his arduous investigations , they have recommended that his paper be rewarded with the Royal Medal .
" in the appointment of physician to the King , whose favour he soon conciliated , and by whom he was more than once offered a baronetcy and a pension , distinctions which his high.minded aversion to dependence and ostentation always induced him to decline .
The ambition of great professional success appears to have been superseded by his fondness for literary pursuits , diverting him by degrees from the laborious exertions and exclusive devotion which are ever requisite for rising to the higher eminences in medicine ; for we find him , in 1812 , when suddenly left a widower with a family of nine young children , gradually relinquishing practice , and retiring from active life to the village of Datchet , in Buckinghamshire , where for the ensuing fourteen years , he devoted himself to the superintendence of his children 's education , to the cultivation of letters , and the enjoyment of a select society .
It was during this period that he amused himself with translating Cicero 's Letters to Atticus , which he subsequently published .
He was also the author of a short Treatise on General Education ; a subject which , from the peculiar circumstances in which he was placed , had anxiously occupied his mind .
This was followed by a translation of that part of the Moralia of Plutarch that relates to brotherly love , which he dedicated to his children .
In the year 1826 , he again came to reside in London , principally with the view of contributing by his instructions to advance his son in those professional studies which he was pursuing in the same hospital , from which he had himself derived a large portion of his practical knowledge .
But in this , his fondest hope , he was doomed to suffer the most cruel disappointment ; for the brilliant career of which that favourite son was giving auspicious promise , was suddenly closed in death , occasioned by the reception of poisonous matter during a post-mortem examination .
Other domestic calamities followed in quick succession : the loss of another son , and of his eldest daughter , overshadowed his declining years with the deepest gloomn which found relief only in religious contemplation , and the composition of various works illustrative of the Scriptures .
He died on the 19th of February , 1845 , aged 77 .
His contributions to the Philosophical Transactions consist of two papers ; the first in 1796 , on the influence of cold on the health of the inhabitants of London ; in which he shows , in opposition to the popular prejudices then prevalent , that a severe winter is attended with greatly increased mortality .
The second paper is entitled " On the heat of July 1825 , together with some remarks on sensible cold , " in which he points out the causes which influence our sensations of temperature , and more especially the powerful effect of wind in increasing the rate of cooling , and consequently of creating the sensation of cold in the human body , independently of any actual depression in the temperature of the air .
JOHN FREDERIC DANIELL was born in Essex Street , Strand , 12th of March , 1790 .
His father , George Daniell , Esq. , Bencher of the Inner Temple , provided him with a good classical education under his own roof .
At an early age he showed fondness for tne pursuits of science , and was placed in the sugar refining establishment of a relative , where he introduced important improvements in the manufacture .
The pursuits of business , however , were uncongenial to his tastes , and he soon relinquished this occupation .
In 1813 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , of which body he continued till the day of his death a zealous and active member .
The services he rendered to more than one branch of science were of no ordinary description .
From an early period of his life his mind was directed to the study of meteorology , at a time when it consisted of little more than a vast accumulation of facts and observations .
In the year 1823 he published the first edition of his ' Meteorological Essays , ' which constituted a new epoch in the science , and still continues the standard work of reference , the third edition of which he had nearly completed at the time of his death .
This was the first attempt to embrace in a general view the scattered facts of the science , and by synthetically applying the known laws which regulate the constitution of gases and vapours , the principles of their equilibrium , and the distribution of heat among them , to give a connected account of the main phenomena of the earth 's atmosphere .
He insisted on the paramount importance of extreme accuracy in the construction of the instruments employed for such inquiries , and gave directions by which the needful accuracy could with certainty and facility be obtained .
By the invention of the hygrometer , which bears his name , he first conferred precision on the means of ascertaining the moisture or dryness of the atmosphere , a point of cardinal importance in all investigations of this nature ; his instrument still continues that which can be best depended upon for this purpose .
With these accurate instruments , he for three years kept a faithful register of the various atmospheric changes ; he organized the plan adopted by the Horticultural Society in their annual meteorological reports , a plan which formed the model to the admirable and more extended series of meteorological observations now issued weekly from the Greenwich Observatory under the superintendence of the Astronomer Royal .
In the year 1824 he communicated to the Horticultural Society an essay ' On Artificial Climate , ' which appeared in their Transactions for that year .
In this paper among other subjects he insisted on the absolute necessity of attention to the moisture of the atmosphere , as well as of that of maintaining in our hot-houses the moisture as well as the temperature of a tropical climate , if we would produce a vegetation of tropical luxuriance .
The publication of this essay caused a complete change in the methods adopted for the culture of plants in general , and particularly of those contained in greenhouses and hot-houses , which upon the new plans speedily outgrew the houses provided for their reception .
The Society immediately awarded him their silver medal to mark their sense of the importance of his views , and now after an experience of more than twenty years , Dr. Lindley , Professor of Botany in University College , not a fortnight before his death , in an article in the Gardener 's Chronicle , tracing the origin of the improvements in this branch of horticulture , ascribes the rapid advance in the practice of the art , mainly to the sound and original views promlulgated in this essay .
For the purpose of making more minute and accurate observations upon variations in the atmospheric pressure , Mr. Daniell proposed to the Royal Society , in 1830 , to construct a barometer in which water should be the fluid used instead of mercury .
He was in consequence requested to superintend the construction of such an instrument .
Great practical difficulties attended the undertaking , but these he happily surmounted , and the instrument now stands in the Hall of the Apartments of the Royal Society ; he was engaged in re-adjusting it within a few weeks of his deceaseb On occasion of the late Antarctic Expedition under the command of Captain Sir James Ross , and the establishment by Government of the Magnetic and Meteorological observations , founded a few years since in different parts of the British Empire , when the Admiralty applied to the Royal Society for instructions as to the nature and extent of the observations to be made , Mr. Daniell was requested by the Committee of Physics of the Royal Society , to draw up the Meteorological portion of these directions .
The paper which he then prepared furnished the basis of that part of the Report of the Committee , published in the year 1840 , under the sanction of the Royal Society .
But it was not alone to meteorology , and its practical applications , that his labours were confined ; his researches upon various chemical subjects were not less numerous or important .
More than forty original papers , including thirteen on meteorology , were communicated by him to various scientific publications ; among others he published several memoirs on Crystallization , and its attendant phenomena .
Between the years 1830 and 1844 , the Transactions of this Society were enriched by twelve papers on important subjects from his pen .
He invented a process for making gas from resin for the purposes of illumination , by which the streets of New York are lighted at the present time .
For this improvement he received no other acknowledgment than a vote of a few pounds ' worth of books .
In the year 1830 , he described in the Philosophical Transactions , a new instrument for measuring high degrees of heat , such as the temperature of furnaces , and the melting-points of metals .
By means of this , his pyrometer , he ascertained numerous facts of great interest both in a scientific and in a practical point of view .
For the invention of this instrument , which is still the best for the objects intended , the Royal Society awarded him the Rumford Medal .
After his appointment as Professor of Chemistry in King 's College , his researches were turned principally to the phenomena presented by Voltaic Electricity , and they led to the invention of his constant battery ; for this the Royal Society conferred upon him the highest honour in their gift , the Copley Medal for the year 1836 .
The possibility of maintaining powerful and equable currents of electricity for any required period , was established by this invention .
The impulse thus given to the progress of electrical research cannot be too highly estimated , and to it must be traced the numerous applications of electricity , to the blasting of rocks , the working of mines , and to submarine operations , and to the arts of electro-plating , gilding , zincing , &amp;c. , which have recently acquired such magnitude .
His subsequent researches in the same field are contained in the Philosophical Transactions , and were honoured by the Society in the year 1842 by one of the Royal Medals .
In 1839 Professor Daniell was placed on the Commission appointed by the Admiralty to inquire into the best method of defending the ships in the Royal Navy from lightning , and the same year the Royal Society honoured him with the office of Foreign Secretary to their body .
His " Introduction to Chemical Philosophy , " published during the course of this year , contributed still further to increase his reputation , and in 1842 he received from the University of Oxford the honorary degree of D.C.L. In consequence of the rapid corrosion of the copper sheathing of the vessels employed upon the African stations , the Admiralty requested him to examine the damaged sheets of metal and the waters taken up from the localities where the corrosion was the greatest ; he detected the cause of this decay , showing that sulphuretted hydrogen was abundantly generated in the ocean at these spots , and succeeded in extracting from the metal plates the sulphur which had occasioned their corrosion .
It is a remarkable proof of the variety and extent of Mr. Daniell 's acquirements , that he received at different times all the medals in the gift of the Royal Society .
The circumstances which attended the sudden and lamented termination of his valuable life , are known to mYost of the Fellows of this Society .
On the 13th of March 1845 , after delivering his usual lecture at King 's College , apparently in perfect health , he attended the Council Meeting of this Society , and shortly after making some observation upon the business of the meeting , was seized with symptoms indicating an attack of apoplexy .
Several medical men who were present hastened to his relief ; and he was immediately bled ; not the slightest benefit , however , attended this measure , and in five minutes he was a corpse .
The shock occasioned by this melancholy event , may be easier imagined than described , and cast a widespread gloom over the extensive circle of his friends and acquaintance .
As a mark of respect to his memory , the Noble President postponed the ordinary meeting of the Society , which was to have been held that evening .
His remains were interred at Norwood , Surrey , where during the last ten years of his life he had resided .
Mr. Daniell survived his wife eleven years , and left a family of two sons and five daughters to deplore his loss .
High as were his scientific attainments , he possessed others of a still loftier and more enduring character ; to the sterling qualities of a vigorous understanding , and a kind and benevolent heart , he united the humble and unobtrusive piety of a sincere christian .
THOMAS PHILLIPS , R.A. , F.R.S. , F.S.A. , was a native of Dudley in Warwickshire , where he was born on the 18th of October , ]770 .
He evinced a love of art at a very early age ; and after some provincial instruction , at Birmingham , in an inferior branch of painting , he directed his steps to London , where he arrived in the year 1790 .
He soon placed himself before the public ; for in the second year after his establishment in London his name is found among the exhibitors at the Royal Academy of Arts .
In the earlier part of Mr. Phillips 's career , he appeared as a painter of historical and fancy subjects ; but he seems soon to have relinquished this branch of his art for that in which he afterwards becamle so deservedly eminent ; namely , portraiture .
In the autumn of 1804 , the members of the Royal Academy elected Mr. Phillips an Associate of that Society : four years after , in 1808 , he received his full diploma as a Royal Academician .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1820 .
After the decease of Mr. Fuseli , in 1824 , he became Professor of Painting in the Royal Academy .
Before delivering the customary course of lectures , Mr. Phillips proceeded to Italy to contemplate the works of the great masters preserved at Rome , Florence , Parma , and in other continental collections .
On his return to London , the Professor prepared his lectures , which were delivered to the students of the Royal Academy ; and they were subsequently printed by him in 1833 .
These discourses , of which his brother academicians have shown their appreciation by making them part of the prizes bestowed on successful students in the schools of painting , display the intimate acquaintance possessed by their author with the principles and practice of lis art .
Four of the series are on the I-istory of Painting ; others on Invention , Design , Composition , Colouring , Chiaroscuro , and the application of the principles of painting .
They form altogether an admirable treatise on the art ; they abound with sound philosophical views and just criticism , united with excellent practical advice and instruction , conveyed in clear and unaffected language .
They are a highly valuable contribution to the class of literature to which they belong , and are most honourable to the ability and taste of their lamented writer .
For above forty years of his life Mr. Phillips was in full practice as a portrait-painter ; and among his sitters were many of the most exalted and eminent men of his age .
It is unnecessary to attempt to notice all the works which proceeded from his constantly employed pencil ; but a few of his more important pictures may with propriety be referred to .
Among the most interesting subjects whose likenesses are preserved to us by his skill , may first be classed those Presidents of the Royal Society whose portraits now decorate the walls of the room in which our ordinary meetings are held , namely , His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex , Sir Joseph Banks , and Mr. Davies Gilbert .
Among those of scientific and literary characters , it is gratifying to refer to pictures of the present Dean of Westminster ( Dr. Buckland ) , Dr. Dalton , Professor Sedgwick , Mrs. Somerville , Francis Bailey , and Professor Faraday ; as well as those of Byron , Scott , Southey , Coleridge , Campbell and Hallam .
These are but a few , -but they are among the best of his works , out of the large number of portraits in which Mr. Phillips has shown his just comprehension of character , his taste in arrangement , truth to nature , and a fine eye for colour .
Mr. Phillips 's health had long been declining .
His death occurred on Sunday the 20th of April , 1845 , in his seventy-fifth year .
He was greatly and most deservedly respected and esteemed by a large circle of friends , whom his high talents , amiable disposition , and gentlemanlike feelings and manners had drawn around him ; and his loss will long be sensibly felt ; especially in that profession of which he was so distinguished a member .
He married early in life ; and has left , besides other children , a son who is following the same profession as himself .
The arts have sustained a serious loss by the melancholy death of Mr. GEORGE BASEVI , an architect of distinguished reputation and of still greater promise .
Mr. Basevi began his professional education under Sir John Soane , and subsequently prosecuted it with great diligence and success in Greece and Italy ; he was passionately attached to his art , and there was no accomplishment or branch of knowledge bearing upon it which he failed to cultivate or acquire .
His Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge , and the New Conservative Club House in St. James 's Street , not to mention his other works , will be durable monuments of his genius and taste .
He was a man of excellent sense and judgment , a scrupulous lover of truth , and singularly upright in all his dealings : though his manners to some persons might appear cold and unimpassioned , he was ardent in his affections and exemplary in all the relations of domestic life .
He was inspecting the works in progress in the western tower of Ely Cathedral , and whilst stepping backwards upon a broad beam , from the sides of which the flooring for a short distance had been removed , his foot tripped and he fell through the opening upon the timbers of the vault beneath , and was killed on the spot .
He was buried in Ely Cathedral with every mark of respect , which was equally due to his private virtues and to the affecting circumstances attending his death .
JAQUES DOMINIQUE CASSINI , Count du Thury , was elected a Foreign Member of this Society in 1789 , and at the time of his death had attained the extraordinary age of 97 years : he was the fourth in direct descent of a family which , during a period of nearly two centuries , has been singularly illustrious in the history of the sciences , and more particularly of astronomy .
His great grandfather , Jaques Dominique Cassini , one of the greatest astronomers of his age , was born in 1625 , and was invited by Louis XIV .
from Italy to France , to preside over the magnificent Observatory of Paris , which was built under his directions : his first successor in the direction of this establishment was his son Jean Jaques , an astronomer not less eminent than himself ; the second his grandson , more commonly designated as Cassini de Thury , so well known by his great Geodetical Survey and Map of France ; and the third his great grandson , the subject of the present notice , who was displaced from it by the troubles of the Revolution , which involved him , at least for a time , in the common proscription of the aristocracy of France .
The shock of these sad events seems to have diverted his mind from scientific pursuits , for we find his name connected with no research in astronomy or geodesy during the last half-century .
The Comte de Cassini completed the celebrated map of France which had been begun by his father .
He published an account of voyages which he made in 1768 and 1769 , for the trial of the marine chronometers of Le Roy , and a memoir " Sir l'influence de l'equinoxe du printemps et du solstice d'ete sir les declinaisons et les variations de l'aiguille aimantee : " he superintended and published an account of the observations which were made in 1789 , by a commission appointed for that purpose , for the junction of the Observatories of Paris and Greenwich , with a special reference to the connection of the Geodetical Survey of France which had been made by his father , with the corresponding Survey of England which was at that time in progress under General Roy : he was the author likewise of C &lt; Memoires pour servir a l'Histoire des Sciences et a celle de l'Observatoire Royal de Paris , suivis de la Vie de Jaques Dominique Cassini , premier du nom .
" With him have terminated the honours of the house of Cassini , though he was not the last of his race who distinguished himself in the career of the sciences ; his , son , Henri Cassini , an upright and enlightened judge in the Cour Royale and the Cour de Cassation , and one of the most learned botanists of his age , fell a victim to the cholera in 1833 , and with him died the last stay of the old age of his father : he was the fifth of his family who had been elected a member of the Acad6mie des Sciences .
He was a boy at the breaking out of the Revolution , and was compelled , from a regard to his personal safety , to live in the strictest retirement at his father 's domain of Thury ; a circumstance which turned his attention to the cultivation of Natural History and Botany , and diverted him , as he was accustomed to lament , from those studies and pursuits which formed , as it were , the proper and hereditary honours of his family .
THEODORE DE SAUSSURE was born in Geneva the 14th of October , 1767 .
His father , known throughout the civilized world as the geological explorer of the Alps , who first reared observatories on heights almost inaccessible , and who inscribed his name on the eternal snows of the loftiest mountain in Europe , was by profession a physician .
Being animated with an ardent love for science , which he cultivated most assiduously , it is not a matter of surprise that after entrusting his son for a short time to a private tutor , he should have undertaken personally his education , so far as to enable him to enter the Academy of Geneva , where young De Saussure soon distinguished himself .
Previously to this period , his father had caused him to study medicine , mineralogy , and natural history ; and had also inspired him with a taste for experimental chemistry , which he 584 ; constantly required for the analyses of minerals .
By degrees the son became associated with the scientific labours of his father , who records that when he resolved upon attempting the ascent of Mont Blanc , in August 1787 , his son , then nineteen years of age , expressed the strongest desire to accompany him ; but being apprehensive that he was not sufficiently strong , he was unwillingly obliged to leave him at the Priory at Chamouni , where he made with great care meteorological observations , simultaneously with those carried on at the summit of Mont Blanc .
In the month of June of the following year , Theodore de Saussure accoumpanied his father in the laborious and hazardous expedition to the Col du Geant , where they remained for seventeen days , during which time young De Saussure rose every imorning at four o'clock , to commence the meteorological observations , which he continued with unremitting diligence until ten o'clock each night ; and so thoroughly did he enter into the scientific pursuits of his parent , that he almost importuned the latter to extend the period of his sojourn amidst those splendid scenes ; which was however effectually prevented by the guides , who , alarmed at the idea of a longer stay amidst those icy heights , destroyed all the remaining provisions , necessarily compelling the De Saussures to descend to Cornayeur .
From this period we find Th6odore De Saussure always accompanying his father , who was not slow in availing himself of the great advantages derivable from his son 's labours .
In 1789 , they made the very difficult tour of Monte Rosa , it being the first time that the gold mines of Macugnaga were visited by men of science .
It was during this excursion that young De Saussure restored by experiments that confidence in the accuracy of the barometer for measuring heights , which the assertion of Bouguer had tended to weaken .
He made seventy experiments at different heights , and in calculating the results , was always careful to make the necessary corrections for temperature and humidity , which Bouguer appears to have neglected .
The enthusiasm and physical energy of young De Saussure were almost too great for his father , who was now aged , and weakened by various illnesses , and consequently we often find the latter compelled to resist his son 's desire to prolong their arduous excursions .
The storms of the Revolution , more powerful than those of the Alps , at length put an effectual stop to these useful scientific excursions , which had been continued for so many years .
Theodore de Saussiure , in common with many men of his age , was compelled to leave his country .
He visited this country with Alexander Marcet , who many years afterwards became his colleague in the Academy at Geneva .
After travelling over England and Scotland , he returned to Geneva , and resolved henceforth to devote his life to scientific pursuits .
The taste which he had acquired for chemistry under his father 's tuition , had been strengthened in England and in France , where that science was eagerly cultivated ; and on his return to G(eneva , he determnined to select the vegetable kingdom for the field of his researches , and zealously applied himself to discover by experiments the influence of the atmosphere and of soils upon plants , and the various chemical changes which they undergo .
With the exception of some few accessory labours , M. de Saussure spent a long life upon this branch of science ; and it may be truly said that he has done more to advance the knowledge of vegetable physiology than any other person .
It is worthy of remark that he laboured seven years silently , before publishing the results of his investigations .
These were comprised in his work entitled " Recherches Chimiques sir la Vegetation , " which appeared in 1804 , .
He subsequently published in the Annals de Physique et de Chimie , the results of his investigations into the action of the petals of flowers upon the atmosphere .
The great inmportance which he attached to the nutritive power of carbonic acid upon plants , directed his attention to the proportion of this gas in the atmosphere .
In 1816 , he published , in the first volume of the Bibliotleque Universelle , some researches on this subject , which being greatly extended , formed afterwards a paper which was published in 1830 in the Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneve , under the title of " De l'action des huiles sir le gaz oxygene a la tenmperature atmospherique .
" After examining the action of the green portions of plants , roots and flowers upon the atmosphere , M. de Saussure carried his investigation to the same parts of fruits .
The result was a long paper published in 1821 , in the Memoirs of the same Society , entitled " Influence des fruits verts sir I'air , avaunt leur maturite .
" He shows in this paper , that unripe fruit exercises the same influence as leaves upon the air .
Independently of his vegeto-physiological researches , M. de Saussure published some papers descriptive of minerals in the Journal de Physique .
These are entitled , " Analyse du Sappare , " " Sir un hydrophane imbibee de cire , " " Analyse de la Dolomie , " and " Sir le Sappare dur .
" M. de Saussure was of a most reserved habit , the result probably of his solitary education : it is recorded of him that he seldom dec sired to converse with his friends on the scientific subjects occupying his attention ; and so far did he carry this reserve , that even his most intimate acquaintances were generally ignorant of the nature of the papers which he proposed reading before the Society of Natural History .
The same disposition prevented him from acting as Professor in the Academy of Geneva , though appointed to the Chair of Mineralogy and Geology in the year 1802 .
It was found impossible to overcome his repugnance to give the usual courses of lectures , though at the same time he gave evidence of his warmn interest in the Academy by constantly attending its meetings .
In 1814 , he was elected a member of the Legislative Council of the Republic of Geneva , but he was too timid to take an active part in the debates of this body .
In 1790 he became a member of the Agricultural Section of the Society of Arts , and always continued one of its most zealous supporters .
He was a Foreign Member of the French Institute , of the Royal Academies of Naples , Turin and Munich ; of the Institute of Fine Arts and Sciences at Amsterdam ; of the Linnean Societies of Paris and London ; the Wernerian Society of Edinburgh ; and was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1820 .
In 1842 , M. de Saussure was unanimously elected President of the Scientific Congress , which met that year at Lyons , thus marking the high esteem in which he was held as a man of science .
Having preserved throughout life the best health , M. de Saussure died on the 18th of April 1845 , at the advanced age of 78 , leaving behind him the reputation of a long life passed in severe and patient study , interrupted only when he came before the world with the results of his laborious experiments and researches .
The thanks of the Meeting were given to the President for his Address , with a request that he would allow it to be printed .
The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers having been read by the Secretary , and Joseph Smith and Samuel Solly , Esqs .
having , with the consent of the Society , been nominated Scrutators in examining the lists , the votes of the Fellows present were collected .
Dr. Roget , on the part of the Scrutators , reported the following Noblemen and Gentlemen as being duly elected Officers and Council for the ensuing year , viz. President.-The Marquis of Northampton .
Treasurer.-George Rennie , Esq. , V.P. Secretaries Peter Mark Roget , M.D. Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. Foreign Secretary.-Lieut.-Col .
Edward Sabine , R.A. Other Members of the Council.-John Bostock , M.D. ; Sir William Burnett , M.D. , K.C.H. , V.P. ; Charles Daubeny , M.D. ; Bryan Donkin , Esq. ; Very Rev. Dean of Ely , V.P. ; Thomas Galloway , Esq. .
M.A. ; William Robert Grove , Esq. , M.A. ; Leonard Horner , Esq. , V.P. ; Sir J. W. Lubbock , Bart. , M.A. , V.P. ; John Forbes Royle , M.D. ; William Sharpey , M.D. ; William Henry Smyth , Capt. R.N. ; John Taylor , Esq. ; Charles Wheatstone , Esq. ; Rev. Robert Willis , M.A. ; Lord Wrottesley , V.P. The thanks of the Meeting were given to the Scrutators for their trouble in examining the lists .
The following is the statement of the Receipts and Payments of the Society during the preceding year , which was laid on the table by the Treasurer : Statement of the Receipts and Payments of the Royal Society between Nov. 29 , 1844 , and Nov. 29 , 1845 .
RECEIPTS . ?
s. d. Balance in the hands of the Treasurer at the last Audit .
1940 12 8 20 Weekly Contributions , at one shilling ... .
52 00 239 Quarterly Contributions at ?
1 ... ... ... .
958 00 1010 00 23 Admission Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
230 005 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
40 ... ... ... .
200 007 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
60 ... ... ... .
420 00 One year 's rent of lands at Acton : due at Michaelmas 1845 ... ... ... ... ... ... 70 00 Halfyear 's Income Tax ... ... ... ... . .
105 68 19 7 One year 's rent of estate at Mablethorpe : due at Michaelmas 1844 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
125 00 Two years ' Fee farm rent of lands in Sussex : due at Michaelmas 1844-45 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38 80 One-fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lambeth lill , from the Royal College of Physicians , in pursuance of ' Lady Sadleir 's will : due at Midsummer 1845 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 300 Dividends on Stock : One year 's dividend on ?
14,000 Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
420 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
12 50 407 15 0 One year 's dividend on ?
1000 3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 30 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
0 17 6 .
29 26 Half year 's dividend on ?
1000 3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
15 00 Less Income Tax ... ... 08 9. .
14 11 3 One year 's dividend on 34521 .
Is .
ld .
Consols , the produce of the sale of the premises in Coleman-street ... ... ... ... ... ... 103 11 2 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
304 ------100 10 10 One year 's dividend on ?
200 Consols ... 600 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
0365 16 6 Carried forward ... ... ... . .
4593 16 4 ?
s. d. ?
s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... ... .
4593 16 4 Donation Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
4843 14s .
7d ... . .
145 62 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
4 10 141 14 Rumford Fund .
Oneyear'sdividend on 22921 .
1s .
7d .
Consols 68 15 6 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
200 Fairchild Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
100 New South Sea Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Sir Clifton Wintringham 's Bequest .
One year 's dividend on ?
1200 Consols ... 36 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
110 66 15 6300 34 19 0 Miscellaneous Receipts : Sale of Philosophical Transactions , Abstracts of Papers , and Catalogues of the Royal Society 's Library ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
206 17 J. D. Gilbert , Esq. , Pedestal for Bust of the late D. Gilbert , Esq ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
20 10 6 James Watt , Esq. , two Pedestals for Busts of Sir I. Newton , and the late James Watt , Esq ... ... ... . .
41 00 Mr. Galloway for Books ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 190 Mr. Children for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 118 0 Total Receipts ... , , . ?
5110 11 3 ... .0 : , ,il1II .
I PAYMENTS .
Fairchild Lecture.-The Rev. J. J. Ellis , for delivering the Fairchild Lecture for 1845 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Bakerian Lecture.-CharlesDaubeny , M.D. , for the Bakerian Lecture for 1845 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Books purchased : ?
s. d. Dulau and Co. : for Books ... ... ... ... 105 33 Nutt : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
346 Taylor : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 17 3 Gould : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... .
330 Executors of J. H. Henderson , Esq. : for ditto. .
896 Executors of F. Bailey , Esq. : for ditto ... ... . .
7 17 6 Westley : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
800 MVrs .
Loudon : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... 16 3 6 ?
s. d. 300400 175 18 6 Carried forward ... ... ... ... 182 18 6 ?
s. d. s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... ... .
Salaries : Dr. Roget , one year , as Secretary ... ... . .
105 00 S. 1I .
Christie , Esq. , one year , as Secretary. .
105 00 Ditto for Index to Phil. Trans ... ... ... . .
550 Executors of John F. Daniell , Esq. , one year , as For .
Sec ... ... ... ... ... . .
20 00 Charles R. Weld , Esq. , one year , as AssistantSecretary and Librarian ... ... ... ... . .
200 00 Ditto , for compiling Catalogue of Maps , Charts , Engravings , &amp;c. ... ... ... ... . .
30 00 Mr. White , one year , as Attendant ... ... . .
80 00 G. HIoltzer , one year , as Porter ... ... ... .
30 00 Ditto , for extra Porterage ... ... ... ... . .
10 00 Purchase of ?
138 Os .
10d .
3 per cent. Consols ( Rumford Fund ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Purchase of ?
1000 3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... .
Fire Insurance , on the Society 's Property ... ... ... ... . .
Mrs. Coppard : Gratuity ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Clerks : Christmas Fee ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Mr. Moore : Gratuity ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Bills:182 18 60 585 5 133 11 0 1003 15 0 45 16 10 00110 10 00 Taylor : Printing the Phil. Trans. , 1844 , part 2. .
211 04 Ditto , 1845 , part 1 ... ... ... ... ... .
132 76 Ditto , Proceedings , Nos. 58-60 ; Circulars , Lists of Fellows , Ballot-lists , Statement of Payments , and Minutes of Council ; &amp;c. &amp;c. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
58 16 6 _ ... . .
402 44 Bowles and Gardiner : For Paper for the Phil. Trans. , 1844 , part 2 , 85 40 and 1845 , part 1 ... ... ... ... 58 16 0 144 00 Gyde : Boarding and Sewing 800 Parts of Phil. Trans. , 1844 , part ... ... ... ... . .
27 68 Ditto , 1845 , part 1 ... ... ... ... ... . .
27 54 __~54 12 0 Tuckett : Bookbinding ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
44 18 1 Pouncey and Sons : For Stationery ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
583 Saunderson : For Shipping Expenses ... ... ... ... ... 991 Carried forward ... 59 15 5 2572 8 4 Brought forward ... Brecknell and Turner ; Candles , and Lamp Oil ... ... ... ... . .
Arnold : For Coals ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Ditto ( Porter 's yearly allowance ) ... ... . .
Edis : For making Map Cases ... ... ... ... ... Shoolbred : For Moreen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Gwillim : Mats , Brushes , Fire-wood , &amp;c. ... ... . .
Cubitt : For repairs and relaying Carpets , &amp;c. ... ... Luck , Kent and Co. : Carpets ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Humphries : Livery for Porter ... ... ... ... ... ... . . ?
s. d. ?
s. d. 59 15 5 2572 84 39 63 25 16 047O 16 18 3 10 11 06 15 9 29 14 11 17 005 10 0 Taxes and Parish Rates : Land and Assessed Taxes ... ... ... ... 21 14 2 Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 19 2 Mr. Westmacott , Four Pedestals for Busts ... ... ... .
Mr. Newton , Surveying Land at Acton , &amp;c. ... ... ... ... Petty Charges : Advertising ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 10 0 Postage and Carriage ... ... ... ... ... .
22 15 10 Expenses on Foreign Packets , &amp;c. .
10 32 Stamps ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 12 6 Charwoman 's Wages ... ... ... ... . .
27 14 6 Ditto , Extra work ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2 12 6 Miscellaneous expenses ... ... ... ... ... .
33 18 215 14 7 26 13 82 0 36 13 400 100 10 2 Balance in the hands of the Treasurer ... ... ... ... ... .
2076 11 10 Total. . ?
5110 11 3 JOHN W. LUBBOCK , Treasurer .
November 29th , 1845 .
The Balances in hand , now belonging to the several trusts , are as under .
viz. ?
s. d. Donation Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
313 18 7 Rumford Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
66 15 6 The following table shows the progress and present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows : Patron Having Paying Paying and Foreign .
cor ?
2 12s . ?
4 Total .
Honorary , pounded .
Annually .
Annually .
November 1844 ... 13 49 507 22 233 824 Since elected ... ... ... ... ... ... + 12. .
+ 11 +23 Since compounded ... ... ... ... +2 -2 Defaulters ... .
-1 -3 -4 Since deceased ... ... . .
-1 8 -2 -4 -15 November 1845 ... . .
13 48 513 19 235 828 Weekly and Quarterly Contributions .
1830 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 363 40 1831 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 286 00 1832 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
255 60 1833 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
283 76 1834 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 318 18 6 1835 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 346 12 6 1836 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
495 00 1837 ... ... 531 00 1838 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
599 40 1839 ... ... ... ... ... 666 16 0 1840 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 767 40 1841 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 815 12 0 1842 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
910 80 1843 ... ... ... ... ... 933 16 0 1844 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1025 16 0 1845 ... ... ... 1010 0 0

