459 Bieds.\#151 ; By B. BowdlerSharpe , F.L.S. , etc. , Assistant the Zoological Department , British Museum .
Our knowledge of the recent Avifauna of the island of Rodriguez has hitherto been confined to a few memoirs published by Mr. Edward Newton , and Professor Alfred Newton of Cambridge .
The former has given us an account of a hurried trip of a few days duration made by him in 1864 ( Ibis , 1865 , pp. 146-154 ) , and it says much for his zealous collecting that the collections now received add very little to his account of the ornithology of the island , and confirm in nearly every instance the correctness of his identifications .
Two indigenous species were then discovered by him , both of them proving new to science , and these were described by Professor Newton as Foudia flavicans and Drynueca ?
rodericana .
More recently he has described a Falceornis from this island as Falceornis exsul ( Ibis , 1872 , p. 33 ) , and in 1875 a figure of this interesting bird was published ( Ibis , 1875 , pi .
vii .
) .
The naturalists attached to the present expedition did not procure a specimen , but Mr. Henry Slater saw one on one occasion only :\#151 ; " This was on the 30th of September , " towards the south-western end of the island , where there is a good deal of wood , " and he could have shot the bird if he had had a gun with him ; but neither of his " companions was favoured with a sight of this expiring species , and no further " information about it could be obtained from the Creoles .
" ( Newton , Ibis , 1875 , p. 343 .
) Of the collections brought home by the naturalists to the Expedition , that of Mr. Slater is the largest , as he procured not only several specimens of the Foudia and Drymceca , but also a number of waders and sea-birds which are found on the island .
Mr. Gulliver 's specimens of the two indigenous species were very well preserved , and he also succeeded in obtaining their eggs .
Among Mr. Slater 's series were examples of the following introduced species , Psittacula cana , Acridotheres tristis , Francolinus ponticerianus , and Numida coro-nata .
1 .
Bradypterus rodericanus .
Drymseca ( ?
) rodericana , Newton , P. Z. S. 1865 , p. 47 , pi .
1 , fig. 3 .
Drymoica rodericana , Gray , Handl .
B. i. p. 199 , No. 2771 .
Adult male .
General colour above olivaceous brown , very little paler on the upper tail-coverts ; lores pale yellow , extending above the eye but not forming a distinct eyebrow ; round the eye a ring of pale yellow feathers ; cheeks and sides of face pale yellow , the ear-coverts olivaceous ; under surface of body pale yellow from chin to vent , the sides of the neck and sides of breast olivaceous brown ; under wing-coverts light yellow ; wing-coverts above brown washed with olivaceous like the back ; quills dark brown , the secondaries edged with olivaceous , inclining to yellowish white on the outer margin of the primaries ; tail-feathers brown , narrowly margined with olivaceous , the outer ones slightly tipped with white ; bill horn-brown in skin , the lower mandible yellow ; feet fleshy brown in skin .
The following are the measurements of the specimens sent , seven in number Total Length .
Culmen .
Wing .
Tail .
Tarsus .
1 a. g1 ad .
Rodriguez , Nov. 1874 ( Gulliver ) 6-3 0-65 2-45 3-0 0-95 b. ?
ad .
99 99 99 6-3 06 2*35 2-95 0-85 c. ( j ad .
99 99 ( Slater ) 6-2 0-65 2-45 2*85 0-95 d. g ad .
99 99 99 5-8 0*65 2-45 2-9 0*95 e. g ad .
99 99 99 6*2 0-65 2*45 2-95 0*9 / . ?
ad .
99 99 99 6-0 \#151 ; 2-35 2-9 0*85 9 .
ad .
99 99 99 6*0 0-65 2-25 2-8 0-85 As is usual among the Warblers the female is smaller than the male .
The difference in coloration is not very great , ranging from a dark olive-brown to a clear olive or greyish brown ; the shade of yellow also varies in individuals .
The present bird is a difficult one to place in the natural system .
In general plumage it is unlike a Drymceca , but , as Professor Newton observes ( .
) , it cannot be associated with the Cisticolce , which have ten tail-feathers .
Its affinities must , therefore , be with Drymceca , Orthotomus , , \amp ; c. , or with the Reed-Warblers , Acrocephalus , Bradypterus , \amp ; c. It cannot be referred to , as all the members of the latter genus have the tail shorter than the wing , or about equal to it in length .
In true Drymceca the tail is always longer than the wing , and so it is in Prinia , but in Apalis the wings and tail are about equal , so that I can hardly understand Mr. G. It .
Gray 's suggestion that rodericana resembled Apalis .
The shorter and broader bill , the minuteness of the rictal bristles , and the fact of the first primary being equal to the inner secondaries in length , all show that Apalis is not the genus to which the present bird could be referred , though in the " Handlist " a clean sweep is made of all the Grass-Warblers and their allies , which are sunk into one enormous genus Drymoica .
It remains therefore clear that the Rodriguez Warbler must be referred either to Prinia , to Drymceca , or to the immediate vicinity of the Reed-Warblers .
After comparing them I have come to the conclusion that it should be referred to the last-mentioned group of Warblers , as its abnormally long bill and strong rictal bristles separate it off from Drymceca and Prinia .
In the two latter genera the bill , though long , never exceeds in length the hind toe and claw , and is only equal to about half the tarsus .
The well developed first primary prevents the admission of D. rodericana into Acrocephalus , and it therefore must be referred to the genus Bradypterus , of which it exhibits the generic characters , but of which genus it is rather an aberrant member , on account of its long bill and yellow coloration .
BIRDS.\#151 ; R. BOWDLER SHARPE .
The nests of this species , obtained by both naturalists , are very similar in structure , but one is rather larger than the others .
They are both cup-sliaped and neatly constructed , but firmly built , and the walls of the nest decidedly thick .
The principal material used in their construction appears to be fibre with a few grasses interwoven ; some leaves and shreds of cotton are also added .
Mr. Gulliver brought an egg of this Warbler .
It is something of a White-throat type , being white , thickly spotted , more particularly at the obtuse end .
All over the surface of the egg are small underlying spots of pale purple , and towards the thicker end of the egg are larger clay-brown spots , and also good-sized spots of reddish brown .
Length 07 ; diam. 0*5 .
2 .
Foudia flavicans .
Foudia flavicans , Newton , P.Z.S. , 1865 , p. 47 , pi .
1 , figs. 1 , 2 .
Ploceus flavicans , Gray , Handl .
B. ii .
, p. 45 , No. 6624 .
Adult Male .
Above brown , slightly washed with olivaceous , the back broadly streaked with dark brown , the lower back uniform , the rump yellow , forming a band across it ; upper tail-coverts light olivaceous brown ; wing-coverts blackish brown , with greyish olive edgings to the lesser series , the greater and median coverts broadly-edged with whitish : quills dark brown , the primaries narrowly edged with yellowish , the secondaries more broadly margined with wliity brown , lighter on the innermost ; tail-feathers ashy brown , all edged with olive yellow ; head and neck all round bright yellow , as also the breast ; the forehead , lores , sides of face , and cheeks orange scarlet , the throat also washed with the latter colour ; feathers in front of and round the eye black ; rest of under surface of body light yellow , the flanks brownish ; under wing-coverts light ashy-brown .
Total length 5*2 inches ; culmen 06 ; wing 2*7 ; tail 2*1 ; tarsus 08 .
The series of male specimens is very complete , showing gradual transitional changes from the time when the back is like that of the female without any trace of the yellow band on the rump , the orange colouring on the head and neck being apparently gained by a moult .
The yellow band across the rump appears to be assumed after the yellow head and neck are fully coloured .
Of two males killed by Mr. Gulliver in November 1874 , one lias the band tolerably well defined , the other only shows its approach by the presence of a single yellow feather .
Adult Female .
General colour above brown , the head washed with olive , all the feathers mesially centred with dark brown , more distinct on the back and scapulars ; rump uniform brown ; wing-coverts blackish brown , with greyish edgings to the least series , the median and greater coverts rather broadly edged with white ; quills dark brown , narrowly margined with olive yellow , the secondaries with lighter brown ; tail-feathers dark brown with narrow olive-yellow margins ; lores yellowish ; ear-coverts olivaceous brown with paler shaft-streaks ; cheeks and under surface of body light yellow , the sides of the neck ashy , the sides of the body light brown ; under wing-coverts light ashy brown ; bill brown .
Total length 5 inches ; culmen , 0*55 ; wing , 2'65 ; tail , 2*1 ; tarsus , 0'85 .
The size of the bill in this species varies very much in length and also in stoutness .
In some examples of the brown plumaged birds the beak is black , and these I take to be young males , as the black bill is accompanied by a certain bright yellow shade about the face and throat , and the under surface is rather brighter yellow .
Three nests collected are very interesting .
That obtained by Mr. Slater is a large domed structure , composed entirely of fibre , with a few leaves and a little moss .
The two obtained by Mr. Gulliver are firmly fixed in the small twigs of a tree , and in addition to the domed structure which is exemplified in Mr. Slater 's specimen , these two have a doorway leading into the nest , and the probability is , therefore , that the nest which Mr. Slater found is not finished .
With the exception of a few shreds of cotton and scraps of lichens the nest is entirely constructed of fibres .
Two eggs taken by Mr. Gulliver in December 1874 , were of a clear pale blue .
Length , 075 inch ; diam. 0*55 .
3 .
iEgialitis geoffroyi .
iEgialitis geoffroyi ( Wagl .
) ; Harting , Ibis , 1870 , p. 378 , pi .
xi .
Mr. Slater obtained a single female of this Plover , in winter plumage .
It measures as follows :\#151 ; Total length , 8*3 inches ; culmen , 0*9 ; wing , 5*55 ; tail , 2*2 ; tarsus , 1'35 .
4 .
Strepsilas interpres .
Strepsilas interpres ( L. ) ; Pinsch .
\amp ; Hartl .
Vog .
Ostafr .
p. 662 .
Six specimens collected by Mr. Slater .
They are all in winter plumage , with here and there an appearance of the summer dress being donned .
5 .
Numenius phseopus .
Numenius phseopus ( L. ) ; Pinscli .
\amp ; Hartl .
Vog .
Ostafr .
p. 739 .
The vernacular name of this bird in Rodriguez is " Corbiseau , " according to Mr. Slater , who obtained one specimen in full winter plumage .
6 .
Butorides atricapilla .
Ardea atricapilla ( Afzel .
) ; Pinsch .
\amp ; Hartl .
Vog .
Ostafr .
p. 701 .
Two specimens were collected by Mr. Slater , an old female and a young bird , the latter in the usual mottled plumage peculiar to these Herons .
The old bird agrees with the African B. atricapilla , and I must say that it surprises me to see that BIRDS.\#151 ; R. BOWDLER SHARPE .
some authors would unite this African species to the Indian The latter is much darker , and is asliy-hrownisli where the African species is light grey , while the green shade of the upper plumage is always more bronzy .
Mr. Slater also procured an egg of this Heron .
It is light greenish blue , and is not quite so brightly coloured as one procured by Mr. Monteiro from Angola .
Length , 1*7 in .
; diam. 1*2 .
7 .
Sterna bernsteini .
Sterna bernsteini , Schl .
Mus. P. B. Sterna , p. 9 ; Gray , Handl .
B. iii .
p. 120 , No. 11,060 ; Saunders , P. Z. S. 1876 , p. 657 .
Thalasseus bernsteini , Blasius , J. f. 0 .
1866 , p. 81 .
Adult in winter 'plumage .
General colour above bright silvery grey , the upper tail-coverts white ; forehead , sides of face , sides of neck , and hinder neck pure white , forming an indication of a collar on the latter ; crown of head mixed black and white , the plumes of the nape long and pointed , forming a crest ; the ground colour of the feathers of the crown white , with a greater or less amount of black on them , sometimes forming only a dusky black streak , sometimes occupying nearly the entire feather , evidently indicating a change of plumage ; wing-coverts light silvery grey like the back ; quills slightly darker , silvery grey , white along the inner web , this colour more extended on the secondaries , occupying nearly the whole of the inner web of the innermost , and extending round the outer web of the shorter secondaries ; primaries with the shafts pure white , the first quill blackish grey on the outer web near the base , shading gradually off into lighter grey towards the end of the feather , the other long primaries with a broad line of dark grey extending alongside of the shaft on the inner web , and widening out towards the apex of the same web ; edge of the wing pure white , as are also the outer webs and tips of the thumb-coverts ( bastard wing ) ; tail light silvery grey , rather whiter on the inner webs of the feathers , the centre rectrices whitish ; entire under surface of body , including the thighs and under wing and tail-coverts and axillaries pure white ; bill ( in skin ) yellow , lead coloured towards the base of both mandibles ; feet blackish brown in skin .
Total length , 16*8 inches ; culmen , 2-3 ; wing , 13*5 ; tail , 3-5 , to outermost feathers , 5*5 ; tarsus , 1*0 .
The description is taken from a bird obtained by Mr. Slater .
Another specimen obtained by the same gentleman is not quite in such good condition .
It is marked a male , and has the following measurements:\#151 ; Total length , 17*5 inches ; culmen , 2*4 ; wing , 13 0 ; tail , 4*0 , to tip of outermost feathers , 6*0 ; tarsus , 1*05 .
Probably the dimensions of the tail-feathers may be a shade wrong , as both the birds are moulting .
A misprint has evidently occurred in the dimensions of the bill ( 1*8 inch ) given by Mr , Howard Saunders ( l.c. ) .
The species seems to be a very distinct one and apparently finds its nearest ally in Sterna bergii .
From this , however , it differs in many important particulars .
Sterna bergii .
TJpper surface dark slaty grey .
Upper tail-coverts and tail uniform with hack .
Plumes of the bastard wing uniform with the other coverts .
Primaries externally blackish , but with a broad grey line intervening between the shaft and the black outer web .
Sterna bernsteini .
Upper surface light silvery grey .
Upper tail-coverts and tail much lighter than the back , and nearly white .
Plumes of the bastard wing tipped with white .
Primaries externally blackish or grey , perfectly uniform , without any lighter shade intervening between the outer web and the shaft .
Mr. Slater says that the vernacular name for this species in Biodriguez is " Goilon .
" 8 .
Sterna dougalli .
Sterna dougalli ( Mont .
) ; Saunders , P. Z. S. , 1876 , p. 653 .
Two specimens obtained by Mr. Slater have the bill perfectly black , and measure as follows :\#151 ; \#151 ; Total Length .
Culmen .
Wing .
Tail .
Outer Tail-feathers .
Tarsus .
a. Rodriguez ( ) - - - 15*0 1*5 8-05 3-0 6*0 0-7 - - 15*0 1*55 8-9 2-9 6-5 0*7 9 .
Sterna fuliginosa .
Sterna fuliginosa ( Gm .
) ; Saunders , P. Z. S. , 1876 , p. 666 .
A pair of the large Sooty Tern were collected by Mr. Slater , and agree with the other skins from West Africa and other parts of the Southern Ocean .
The measurements are as follows:\#151 ; Total Length .
Culmen .
Wing .
Tail .
Long Tail-feathers .
Tarsus .
a. Rodriguez ( ) - - 16-8 1-65 11-6 3*4 6*1 0-85 - - 16-7 1-7 11-6 4-1 6-8 0*8 10 .
Gygis Candida .
Gygis Candida ( Gm .
) ; Saunders , P. Z. S. , 1876 , p. 667 .
BIRDS.\#151 ; R. BOWDLER SHARPE .
A pair of birds were collected by Mr. Slater , who gives the vernacular name as " Goilette blanch .
" The following are the measurements of these birds :\#151 ; Total Length .
Gulmen .
Wing .
Tail .
Tarsus .
a. \lt ; $ Rodriguez ( Slater ) ... .
\#187 ; it 12*2 12-3 1-75 1-6 9*2 9-25 4-3 4-3 !
0-45 0-45 It will be seen from the above that the sexes in this Tern are very similar in size , but the female has a slightly smaller bill .
They do not , however , show any approach to the slender-billed species G. of Mr. Saunders , of which the Museum has a specimen presented by Admiral Sir E. Belcher , and collected somewhere in the eastern seas .
The white shafts to the quills and tail feathers in addition to the small size of the bird seem to be adequate distinctions for G. microrhyncha .
Four eggs of G-ygis were obtained by Mr. Slater , but the dates of capture are not recorded , nor the circumstances of nesting .
Mr. Saunders writes ( l. c. p. 669 ) :\#151 ; " The nesting of Gygis is peculiar , the single egg of clay-white mottled with brown " being placed on the cavity of the branch of a tree , or in a fork of two branches , " and on the points of the coral reefs\#151 ; anywhere , in fact , where it will lie .
" The fact of there being but one egg laid by these birds will account partly for the difference in type exhibited by the four specimens obtained by Mr. Slater .
No. 1 .
Ground colour clay-wliite , sparsely spotted all over , the underlying spots and blotches being of a pale purple , the overlying marks being larger and of a dark brown colour , deepening on some to blackish brown ; the larger blotches seem to be congregated more about the larger end and centre of the egg .
Length , L55 ; diam. 1*2 .
No. 2 .
Very different from the foregoing , being of a dull clay colour , the underlying purple blotches being very large , and distributed nearly equally over the whole egg , the brown mottlings taking the form of scribblings and wavy lines , confluent and forming blotches near the top and centre of the egg .
Length , 1*5 inch ; diam. 1*05 .
No. 3 .
The ground colour of this egg is dull clay-colour like the preceding , but the whole surface is covered with small underlying spots of purple , with surface scribblings of dark brown all over the egg ; in no place are there any large confluent blotches .
Length , 1*65 inch ; diam. 1*2 .
No. 4 .
The ground , colour in this specimen is clay-white as in the first described , but the markings are most like those of the last mentioned , being a collection of innumerable small spots and blotches of pale purple as the underlying markings , with an equally confused mass of dark brown spots and scribbled lines on the upper surface .
There are a few broad blackish scribblings near the upper end of the egg Length , 1*55 inch ; diam. 1*2 .
11 .
Anous tenuirostris .
Anous tenuirostris ( Temm .
) ; Saunders , P.Z.S. , 1876 , p. 670 .
Adult Female .
General colour above sooty-brown , rather darker on the rump and upper tail-coverts ; wing-coverts sooty brown like the back , the least series blacker , as also those near the edge of the wings ; quills black with an obscure gloss of sooty-brown on the outer webs , the inner secondaries sooty-brown like the back ; tail uniform dark sooty-brown ; crown of head light grey , gradually shading off into the ashy chocolate colour of the entire hinder part and sides of neck ; feathers between the bill and the eye light grey ; in front of the eye a black spot ; above the hinder part of the eyes and below the same a narrow line of whitish feathers on the eyelid ; sides of face chocolate brown , shaded with grey as they approach the sides of the neck ; entire under surface of body sooty-brown ; lower surface of quills ashy chocolate brown .
Total length , 13*4 inches ; culmen , 1*4 ; wing , 8*7 ; tail , 4*4 ; tarsus , 0*75 .
The name of this species at Rodriguez is " Malanne " according to Mr. Slater , who collected a single specimen of this small Noddy .
It bears out the distinctions of Mr. Saunders ' paper ( Z.c. ) , but as in the latter essay the characters do not seem very easily made out , I have described the present species in detail from Mr. Slater 's Rodriguez example .
12 .
Anous stolidus .
Anous stolidus ( L. ) ; Saunders , P. Z. S. 1876 , p. 669 .
One specimen collected by Mr. Slater ( infra ) .
Like the A. tenuirostris it is called " Malanne .
" Mr. Slater has also sent six eggs of this species .
No. 1 is white , with faint purple spots and blotches distributed over its surface , but only distinct at the larger end , which is further slightly clouded by large blotches and spots of chesnut , with a few spots of black intermixed .
No. 2 is very similar , but the chesnut spots are not distributed so thickly round the thicker end of the egg , but there is a large blotch of dark chesnut at the apex .
No. 3 .
Very like No. 1 , but more yellowish white , and having the upper end thickly clouded with chesnut and black spots , the underlying purplish blotches being rather more distinct .
No. 4 .
Creamy white , the blotches large but sparingly distributed round the larger end of the egg in a ring , leaving the apex unspotted .
No. 5 .
White with the blotches extremely large and confluent round the larger end of the egg , the chesnut colour being rather pale and blending with the underlying purple colour .
BIRDS.\#151 ; R. BOWDLER SHARPE .
467 No. 6 .
White with very few markings , the underlying purple spots as well as the larger chesnut marks being distributed all over the egg .
13 .
Puffinus chlororhynchus .
Puffinus chlororhynchus ( Less .
) ; Gray , Handl .
B. iii .
, p. 103 , No. 10,844 . ? .
Total length , 17 ; culmen , 1*4 ; wing , 10T ; tail , 5*4 ; tarsus , L7 .
\lt ; ? .
" 16 ; " 1-45 ; " 112 ; " 5 2 ; " 1*8 .
14 .
Phaeton flavirostris , Brandt ; Gray , t. c. p. 124 , No. 11,096 .
An adult female procured by Mr. Slater .
15 .
Sula piscator , ( L. ) ; Gray , t. c. p. 126 , No. 11,109 .
An adult female procured by Mr. Slater .
" Booby .
" Note on Anous.\#151 ; The following would seem to be the differences between the members of the genus Anous , of which the British Museum has a good series .
I give herewith a list of the specimens at present in the national collection , with the dimensions of the wings in each case :\#151 ; Key to the Species .
a. Crown of the head grey or whitish , not uniform with the back .
a1.Lores and feathers in front of the eye sooty-brown or blackish like the sides of the face .
all .
Forehead and crown grey , gradually shading off into ashy-brown or chocolate on the neck .
a111 .
Very much larger ; wing , 10'2-11'5 inches .
ct4 .
Crown of head rather clear grey , whiter on the forehead and over the eye ; lores and sides of face greyish chocolate . .
stolidus .
64 .
Similar to A. stolidus , the crown greyish brown , with a narrow superciliary line of white in strong contrast ; lores and sides of face dull chocolate brown ... ... .
superciliosus , b111.Very much smaller ; feathers in front of the eye black ; wing not exceeding 9 * 5 inches .
c4 .
Cheeks and throat all blackish chocolate , darker than the head and sides of the face ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
d\ Cheeks and throat sooty-grey , like the neck . .
611 .
Crown and nape pure white , forming a cap .
b\ Lores and feathers in front of the eye grey like the crown .
c11 .
Underneath sooty-brown , as also the sides of the face . . .
tenuirostris .
f cceruleus .
dn .
Underneath silvery grey or greyish white ... . .
cinereus .
b. Crown of the head uniform brown like the rest of the upper surface . .
gcdcipagensis .
1 .
Anous stolidus , L. ; Saunders , P.Z.S. , 1876 , p. 669 .
a. ad .
Africa .
Lieut. Friend , R.N. Wing , 10-2 .
b. ad .
Gold Coast .
R. B. Sharpe , Esq. Wing , 107 .
c. ad .
Cameroons .
Capt. R. Burton .
Wing , 10*9 .
d.e. ad .
Cape Seas .
Capt. Thomas Row Harry .
/ .
ad Reunion .
Herr .
J. C. Van Dam .
Wing , 10 9 .
g. ad .
" " " Wing , 112 .
h. $ ad .
Rodriguez .
H. H. Slater , Esq. Wing , 11*15 .
i. ad .
S. Paul 's Rock .
Antarctic Expedition .
Wing , 11*5 k.ad .
Morty Island .
A. R. Wallace , Esq. Wing , 11*2 .
l. ad .
Raines ' Islet .
J. B. Jukes , Esq. Wing , 11*2 .
m. ad .
At sea between New Zealand and Australia .
E. Newman , Esq. Wing , 11*25 , n. ad .
Huaheine .
J. H. Gurney , Esq. Wing , 11*0 .
o. ad .
Navigator 's Islands .
Rev. J. B. Stair .
Wing , 10*85 .
p. q. ad .
Ellice Islands .
Rev. S. J. Whitmee .
r. ad .
North America .
H.R.H. The Duke of Sussex .
Wing , 10*6 .
s. ad .
North America .
Purchased .
Wing , 10*2 .
t. ad .
Western Coast of America .
Sir W. Burnett and Admiral Fitzroy .
Wing , 11*3 .
2 .
Anous superciliosus , sp. n. A. similis A. stolido sed pileo summo cineraseenti-brunneo , linea superciliari alba distincta distinguendus .
Long , tot .
, 12 2 ; culm .
, 1*6 ; alse , 10*7 ; caudse , 5*3 ; tarsi , 0'95 .
Hab.\#151 ; Coast of Central America and the Antilles .
a. ad .
Coast of Mexico .
G. Barclay , Esq. Wing , 10*75 .
b. ad .
S. Nevis .
W. Cottle , Esq. Wing , 9*7 .
c. ad .
Jamaica .
Purchased .
Wing , 10*7 .
d. ad .
" Caught at sea in long .
91 E. , lat. 8 N. " R. B. Sharpe , Esq. Wing , 9*7 .
3 .
Anous melanogenys , Gray ; Saunders , t. c. , p. 670 .
a. Locality unknown .
Captain Lord Byron .
Wing , 8*9 .
b. ? .
Moreton Bay .
J. Macgillivray , Esq. Wing , 8*95 .
4 .
Anous plumbeigularis , sp. n. A. ubique cinerascenti-chocolatinus ; capite summo canescente ; macula supra-et infraoculari albida ; plumis anteocularibus nigris ; loris , facie laterali tota clare cinerascenti-chocolatinis , eorpore reliquo subtus chocolatino-brunneo ; subalaribus cinerascenti-chocolatinis ; tectricibus alarm superioribus chocolatinis , remigibus rectricibusque nigricantibus .
Long , tot .
, 14*4 ; culm .
, 1*55 ; alee , 9*8 , * caudse , 5*8 ; tarsi , 0*9 .
Hab.\#151 ; Red Sea .
Mr. Saunders hints that the Noddy of the Red Sea is probably incorrectly determined , and I have therefore examined a specimen which we have in the Museum from that locality .
I find that the bird is apparently distinct from A. melanogenys , differing in its clearer grey face and throat , which are not so black ; the wing is also an inch longer , the back rather lighter brown , and the tail chocolate brown without any grey shade .
The size of the bird is not nearly large enough to allow of its being confounded with A. a. ad .
Red Sea .
J. Middleton , Esq. 5 .
Anous leucocapillus , Gould ; Saunders , t. c. p. 670 , pi .
LXI " fig. 3 .
a. Off Bristow Island , S. coast of New Guinea .
J. Macgillivray .
Wing , 8*5 .
b. Off Barnard Islands .
J. Macgillivray .
Wing , 8*6 .
BIRDS.\#151 ; R. BOWDLER SHARPE .
c. Locality unknown .
Wing , 9*3 .
cl. " R. B. Sharpe , Esq.* e. Off Western coast of South America .
R. B. Sharpe , Esq. / .
Ellice Islands .
Rev. S. J. Whitmee .
6 .
Anous tenuirostris ( Temm ) ; Saunders , t. c. p. 670 , pi .
LXI .
, fig. 1 .
a. ad .
Mauritius .
R. B. Sharpe , Esq. Wing , 8*15 .
b. ad .
Rodriguez .
H. H. Slater , Esq. Wing , 8*7 .
c. S ad .
South Island , Houtmann 's Abrolhos .
J. Gould , Esq. Wing , 8*7 .
7 .
Anous cinereus , Gould ; Sharpe , P.Z.S. 1878 , p. 271 .
a. b. ad .
Australia .
Sir T. Mitchell .
Wing , 8-45 .
8 .
Anous cseruleus ( Bennett ) ; Sliarpe , P.Z.S. 1878 , p. 272 .
a. b. ad .
Ellice Islands .
Rev. S. J. Whitmee .
9 .
Anous galapagensis , sp. n. A. similis A. stolido , sed rostro minore et capite summo fuliginoso unicolori distinguendus Long. tot .
13*4 ; culmen , 14 ; ake , 1065 ; caudm , 5*5 ; tarsi , 0*85 .
Hah.\#151 ; Galapagos Archipelago .
a. ad .
Dalrymple Rock , Chatham Island .
Mr. Saunders thinks that this may be a young A. stolidus .
I believe the bird to be quite adult , and to constitute a distinct species .
* Said to have been procured off the Gold Coast , but the locality is probably erroneous .

