]\gt ; the Discharge Concentric in Gases at Low Pressures .
By F. W. ASTON , B.A. , B.Sc. , A.I.C. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received August 23 , 1912 .
) In some previous communications*the author has described inyestigations upon the length of the Crookes dark space and the relation between current and potential in the discharge between large plane aluminium electrodes in different gases at various pressures .
For all the chemically active gases , and also for the gases of the helium when these are not in a state of great purity , the two ollowing equations were found to hold over a considerable range of the four variables:\mdash ; , ( I ) , ( II ) where is the length of the dark space , the pressure , the potential difference between the electrodes , and the current density .
On examining the values of the four constants , and , it will be seen that ] , and have widely different values for different ases the variations in the values of ( taking the cases of gases in which it was fairly constant } are very small and may be regarded as insignificant considering the difficulty of its accurate determination .
In such cases of cylindrical discharge tubes with plane electrodes filling the tubes it is clear that so long as we only consider the part of the not affected by the glass wall the current density will be the same at every point along the , and therefore no information can be obtained as to the particular part of the discharge upon which the value of the current factor of the dark space depends .
If now the parallel plane electrodes are replaced by two in the form of concentric cylinders the current density will vary from point to point throughout the discharge , so that valuable information upon and the nature of the discharge in general might be expected from accurate measurements of the values of , and for electrodes of this The present paper contains the results obtained with the discharge between such cylinders in the ases oxygen and * F. W. Aston , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1907 , , vol. 79 .
p. 80 ; F. W. Aston and H. E. Watson , ibid. , 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 168 .
Discharge between Concent , The discharge tube is shown in section in .
The vessel was a glass shade , into this was pushed a cylinder of thin aluminium sheet A which just fitted it , the inside surface of this formed the outer electrode .
The inner electrode was an aluminium tube , of exactly the same ) as whose outer surface formed the inner electrode .
It was supported in an exactly concentric position with regard to A upon a lass tube passing the neck of the shade .
This system of cylinders was closed at one end by the mica sheet , and at the other by the disc , which was cemented on to the ground end of the shade with sealing FIG. 1 .
wax .
By means of a side tube ( not shown ) the apparatus was connected to an arrangement by which gas could be admitted , and also to pumps and a liquid air charcoal tube by which the correct of exhaustion could be obtained .
The pressure was read on a special McLeod gauge designed by the author and capable of reading to a high degree of accuracy over the ranges employed .
The current , as in the previous experiments , was derived from a ' battery of small accumulators and controlled by two water resistances in parallel .
An exceedingly delicate and accurate Hartmanm and Braun mllliamp meter available , this was used to measure both the current and the potential by an ement of connections shown in the diagram ( fig. 2 ) , in hich A is the ammeter , the discharge tube , a resistance equal to that of the ammeter , and a heavy standard By rocking the connecting link of the ordinary six-pole see-saw reversing switch , the ammeter can be made to read the current flowing through the discharge tube , or that flowing through the , at will .
As the whole scale of 100 divisions read 1 milliampere , the latter arrangement formed a dead-beat voltmeter reading up to a thousand volts with an accuracy volt .
4.30 .
F. W. Aston .
Discharge between [ Aug. 23 , By a low esistance shunt in the position indicated in the dia , , the of the ammeter could be multiplied to any degree to suit the current values used without interfering with its function as a voltmeter .
The cylinders had diameters and cm .
respectively , with a common length of cm .
Hence the effective cathode areas , i.e. , the inner surface area of the outer cylinder and the outer surface area of the inner cylinder were ( neglecting the edge effect at the ends ) 463 and 72 sq .
cm .
respectively , and a shunt giving divisions per milliampere was enerally used .
As there were no guard-ring arrangements on the electrodes the edge effect , which in this case was an end effect , was not eliminated , so that the values of the current stated are only approximate measures of the current densities .
The length of the Crookes dark space was measured by a simple sighting arrangement similar to that already described , which was mounted on a micrometer carriage giving readings to mm. The hydrogen and oxygen used were prepared by the electrolysis of a solution of barium hydrate and were admitted into the tube in a perfectly dry state .
The order of experiment was the same as had been found most convenient in previous work of this kind ; that is to say , a series of readings of dark space and voltage for four or five definite current values ( chosen to be suitable for curve ) were taken at constant pressure ; the pressure was then altered , either by letting in fresh gas or pumping out , and another series taken .
The range of current , which ] is limited on the one side by the fact that it 1912 .
] Concentr.ic Cylinders in at Pressures .
must be considerably than that necessary to cover the cathode with glow , and on the other by the heat giveu out and the voltage at disposal , was much the same whether the inner or the outer cylindel was cathode .
Owing to the disparity between their respective areas the of current density at the cathode surface was over values for the inner than the outer , the two ranges barely oyerlapping .
The discharge , as was to be expected , resembled that between plane electrodes in its ooeneral appearance .
With oxygen the of the space was absolutely sharp at all the ative glow became faint at low when the inn er cylinder was used as cathode .
The surface of the negative appeared almost perfectly cylindrical over a considerable range of space whichever way the current passing .
Beyond a certain limit , however , the dark space was shorter in the middle of the tube than at the ends and the current density evidently not uniform .
There is , therefore , little value in the leadings of the dark space which exceed 2 to When the length of the dark space approached the distance between the electrodes this uneven distl.ibtltion of the discharge became very mark and in the case of the outer cathode the negative glow finally appeared in the form of a bright cloud of a shuttle shape surrounding the middle of the inner cylinder .
The appearance with hydrogen was much the same as that with oxygen , except that the of the dark space was not nearly so well defined and almost impossible to measure at low currents .
The quite visible at low current densities and very much clearer at the outer cathode than the inner .
The conditions of the experiments were not suitable for its accurate measurement .
In the four tables are given the actual readings obtained .
is expressed in centimetres , in hundreths of a millimetre of mercu1y , and in volts .
The values of are those of the total current flowing the tube in fifths of a milliampere ; for the calculation of the constants they are reduced to current densities , employing the convenient unit , previously used , of one-tenth of a milliampere per square centimetre .
* F. W. Aston , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , 1907 , , vol. 80 , p. 45 .
F. W. Aston , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1907 , , vol. 79 , p. 80 ; F. W. Aston and H. E. Watson , ibid. , 1912 , A. vol. 86 , p. 168 .
Mr. F. W. Aston .
Discharge between [ Aug. 23 , Table I.\mdash ; Oxygen .
Outer Cylinder used as Cathode .
Table II.\mdash ; Oxygen .
Inner Cylinder used as Cathode .
1912 .
] Concentric Cylinders in Gases at Low Table III.\mdash ; Hydrogen .
Outer Cylinder used as Cathode .
Table .
Inner Cylinder used as Cathode .
On plotting these values it was foumd that in seven out of the eight relations examined , the curves so obtained satisfied the same form of fUmdamental equations as those quoted on p. 428 for plane electrodes\mdash ; a result which is particularly when one takes into account the fact that the radius of curvature was of same order as the length of the dark space , so .
that the current density at the of the negative glow must have been widely different from that at the surface of the cathode , and its distribution continually altering with the alteration in the length of the dark space .
The relation which forms the exception is the result in oxygen when the outer cylinder was used as cathode and is an interesting one on account of the surprisingly small change in the potential over large ranges of current and pressure .
It will be seen also that the general rule of increase of voltage with decrease of pressure appears actually reversed in one case ; this series , however , was nob made at ) same date as those at .
pressures immediately above and below .
At the very outset of the experiments it was seen that the alteration of what for want of a better term may be called the " " resistance\ldquo ; of the tnbe VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. F. W. Aston .
between [ Aug. 28 , when the current was reversed was far greater than might be expected from considerations of cathode area only .
Such a tube is , in effect , an electric valve and , properly designed , form an efficient rectifier , since the restriction of the volume of the negative glow caused by the use of the outer cylinder as cathode seemed to help rather than hinder the passage of the current .
The most important relation , to determine which these experiments were rily undertaken , is that connecting dark space with pressUl.e and current .
On the accompanying yram ( are plotted some of the results for oxygen .
It was soon evident that the slopes of the lines , , the Length of Dark Space , in centimetres .
1912 .
] Concentr.ic Cylinders in Gases at Pressures .
values of , were practically identical with each other whichever cylinder used as cathode , and also equal to already determined for plane cathodes provided that current .
each exprcssed current density ' at tl , of the cathode .
This very important result ] to indicate that whatever may be the explanation of the of the dark space with increase of current density , the mechanism which causes it is probably ' very near the surface of the cath.ode .
The pressure factor A is , in oxygen , practically constant for the convex cathode , and also for the concave one at low pressure .
It is much larger in the first case than in the second , the value for plane electrodes between the two .
As is the same for all , it follows that the effect of curvature of cathode on the of the dark space is exactly like a in the pressure , an increase if it is concave , and a decrease if it is convex .
Hydrogen yields results of a similar natul.e , only , as this gas does not give so sharp a dark space edge , they are not so accurate .
In this gas the difference veen the values of A for the two inders is not so Root of nt Den sitq .
between lcentric Cylinders .
neither\mdash ; in the case of the outer cylinder\mdash ; is A so constant , but shows a tendency to decrease with decrease of sure .
Fig. 4 shows the relations between current density and for hydrogen , in which it will be seen that both concave and convex cathodes obey equation ( II ) with fair exactness , being the same for both .
is higher for the inner than the outer cylinder , and in both cases tends to decrease with decrease of pressure .
Similar sCl.aight lines are give by the in ner cathode in oxygen .
The following are the mean values of the constants for the three forms of aluminium hodes : aneConvex .
Our present knowledge of the mechanism of the dark space is inadequate to give any explanation of these figures .
As its length seems to depend on the density of the ionisation within it , one might expect it to be greater for convex than for concave surfaces , since the cathode rays are diyergent in the former case and convergent in the latter .
Further information on this point be gained by the use of cylinders of various diameters .
view , however , of the apparent dependence of the constant upon the current density at the surface of the cathode only , it seemed to the author more important that observstions should be commenced upon the influence of the of the cathode upon this and other phenomena of the discharge .
of Results .
1 .
The relations between pressure , , itlld the length of the Crookes dark space in the discharge between concentric cylinders take much the same form as those in the discharge between parallel planes .
2 .
Curyature of the surface of the cathode appears to have no influence upon the rate of alteration of the length of the dark space with change of current density , so long as the latter asured at the surface of the cathode .
3 .
eteris p , the length of the dark space is greater for a convex cylindrical surface than a plane , and for a plane than a concave one .

