I. " 'A Comparison of the Kew and Lisbon Magnetic Curves during the Magnetic Storm of February 20-25 , 1866 .
" By Senhor I. BRITO CAPELLO , of the Lisbon Observatory .
Communicated by B. STEWART .
Received April 18 , 1868 .
During the 20th , 21st , 23rd , 24th , and 25th of February 1866 , large magnetic disturbances were recorded by the magnetographs at the Lisbon and Kew Observatories .
As these indicate several appreciable deviations from the normal types , I trust a description of them may be not without interest to the Royal Society .
Dr. Stewart , Director of the Kew Observatory , has kindly sent me copies of the Kew magnetic curves during these disturbances .
In order thoroughly to ascertain the laws governing the forces which disturb the ordinary magnetic condition of the globe , we should reduce in a systematic manner , such as General Sabine has so ably pursued , the observations made at a number of stations , and then classify and discuss the valuable results so obtained .
Nevertheless the present communication relative to the disturbances observed at two stations offers some interest , on account of the apparent variability of the forces which are in action during the same disturbance , and also the apparently variable relations between these forces at Lisbon and the same forces at Kew .
In a former comparison made between the magnetic curves of Kew and Lisbon ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 60 ) , it was established that at Lisbon , during disturbances , the vertical force and the declination curves were invariably opposed to each other , i. e. a concave wave of one of the curves always corresponded with a similar convex one in the other ; or , in other words , an augmentation of the vertical force agreed with an horizontal movement of the north pole of the bar towards the east , and a diminution of the same component to a movement of the north pole to the west .
This general law applied both to the large and slow movements ( waves ) , and the short and rapid ones ( peaks and hollows ) .
However , there were some very rare instances in which this law did not altogether hold good .
In these cases , although the peaks and waves were reproduced in the two curves in inverted order , yet the whole of the one curve for some period did not assume the inverted form of the other curve .
The periods of disturbance which are the objects of this discussion belong to these abnormal types .
1868 .
] 399 In the paper quoted above , the authors have also shown,1st .
That all the small peaks in the Kew curves are simultaneously reproduced in the Lisbon curves in the same sense in the declination and bifilar , but in a contrary direction in the vertical force .
2nd .
That , generally , all the waves of the declination and bifilar at Kew were reproduced in the corresponding Lisbon curves , sometimes more or less disfigured .
3rd .
That in the generality of cases , with the exception of peaks and hollows , in which they are opposed , the vertical-force curves of the two stations do not resemble each other .
Let us now see if these laws are confirmed in these disturbances .
First Disturbance.-This series of disturbances commenced at Lisbon , February 20th 16"1 12 " ' G. M. T. , by a sudden increase of the declination , and an enormous diminution of the vertical force .
The horizontal force likewise decreased rapidly , but 13"1 later ( 16 " 25 " ) : this is noteworthy .
However , the three elements , and especially the horizontal force , had been somewhat disturbed since 1011 27 " G. M. T. It is noticeable , in the large diminution of vertical force , that although the curve in descending ran off the edge of the paper , we can fix the point of minimum ( approximately ) , which gives us a little more than 01 ( English units ) as the value of the disturbance .
The increase in declination was nearly a degree ( 59''3 ) , and the diminution of horizontal force 0-052 English units .
This last diminution commenced , as we have before stated , 13 " later than the other disturbances ; and the time of minimum is also 6"1 to 8 " ' after the corresponding points of declination and vertical force .
In other respects the remaining waves of the horizontal force do not agree with those of the declination and vertical force .
The Kew curves agree tolerably well with the Lisbon curves , up to the time of the large and rapid movements .
Here it appears that the large movements of the three instruments were of the same nature as the Lisbon ones ; and it is very possible that the large variations were more considerable and rapid , since they failed to record their traces on the paper .
These large movements seem to have begun in the three instruments at Kew at the same time ( 16 " ' 30 ' ) , at which time the Lisbon declination and vertical force had deviated to half their fill extent .
The small peaks are reproduced at the two stations at the same absolute time , the two vertical forces being always in opposite directions .
The first period of this disturbance seems , therefore , to be of the same nature in the two stations , i. e. the disturbing forces have acted on the three instruments in a similar manner .
Second Distur~bance.-Let us now pass to the second period .
The large movements have ceased , but the horizontal force remains too low , and in continual vibration .
Towards 21 and 3 " of the 21st of February we may take as the recommencement of a second period , which terminated about 7 P. M. In the Lisbon declination we see at the beginning and end of this period two similar undulations , each about half an hour in duration , and almost regular .
In the mid(he there are smaller waves , interrupted by peaks and hollows .
The diminution of declination is not remarkable .
In the vertical force we have the same waves in a contrary direction to the declination ; but the ascending branch is in one instance greater than the corresponding descent in the declination .
A similar difference may be noticed in the last wave but one , by which it happens that the verticalforce curve shows an increase of force during two hours and a half , without a corresponding decrease of the declination .
The horizontal force retained its position below the mean until 3 " 20 ' " , when it descended further till 411 ; then it ascended successively till 61 ' , where it stopped very nearly in its normal position .
We will now discuss the Kew curves .
The declination has been greatly disturbed by large deviations above and below its normal position , a general decrease of declination , however , taking place during more than three hours of great disturbance .
The needle has oscillated 40 ' in arc , while the Lisbon oscillations have not exceeded 8 ' .
Some movements seem to agree with Lisbon ones , others , on the contrary , disagree entirely ; and even in those movements which correspond , some differences of time are appreciable , which cannot be due to error in the time-scale .
The vertical force at Kew increases rapidly from 211 3511 to 311 50"1 ; a period of fluctuations then follows up to 5h , after which the curve rapidly descends irregularly to the end .
The Kew vertical-force curve only agrees with the Lisbon curve in the general aspect of the disturbances , the period of greatest increase lasting but 11 ' 15m , while at Lisbon it was 21 10'11 .
It should be also remarked that the vertical force does not agree in the slightest with the horizontal force at Kew .
The horizontal force at Kew seems to follow the inverse direction of that of Lisbon , and its general form resembles that of Lisbon inverted .
After 51 30 " the waves appear to agree .
Thus we see , in the same disturbance , two periods at an interval of some hours , which show their relations at the two stations to be of an entirely different nature .
In the first period the three instruments agree ; in the second , the horizontal components differ , and all similarity is wanting in the vertical force and declination during the greater part of the total duration .
A long calm period , 4611 in duration , followed these large disturbances ; during which the series of small peaks and hollows were reproduced in the three curves , chiefly in the morning ( 1 7h to 21h ) of the 21st and 22nd days .
Third Disturbance.-Another disturbance commenced about 61 on the 401 23rd of February , which lasted up till 12 ' 30 " .
The horizontal force was in motion from 3h 50m .
The general appearance of this disturbance at Lisbon is a large decrease of declination and horizontal force , and an increase of vertical force for some hours .
It is noteworthy that the waves in the Lisbon curves are clean and rounded in the declination and vertical force .
The Kew curves show also fewer peaks and hollows than during the former disturbances .
At Lisbon this general rule is found to exist : the declination disturbance is opposite in direction to the vertical force .
The declination curve agrees very well with the Kew curve ; the variations of the latter are larger , as is usual .
There is one remarkable circumstance , the first minimum ( 6h 33m ) happens 6 " or 7 " before Kew , the other maxima and minima agree , with the exception of very small differences , which may be attributed to the difficulty of determining precisely the extreme points of the Lisbon curve , on account of their roundness .
The vertical-force curves show a general similarity , but the connexion between the different phases is not seen .
It is remarkable that the general form of the Kew vertical-force curve has a great likeness to the Lisbon horizontal force , but in an inverted order , although the extreme opposite points of maxima and minima do not occur at the same time .
The horizontal-force curves agree very well up to 8h ; after this time it is easily seen that the Kew curve agrees almost exactly with the Lisbon vertical force .
Fourth Disturbance.-Two less important periods follow this period , which terminate about 15h on the 24th : after ten hours of comparative calm the magnets are again set in motion at Lisbon , by a deviation of the horizontal force and declination and a depression in the vertical force , about 1h 45M on the 25th .
This disturbance is composed of three large waves , much agitated , and full of peaks and hollows , or serrated .
At the first glance we see immediately that the general trait of the disturbance is identical at Kew and Lisbon , i. e. the different phases of the three instruments agree with one another .
The Kew curve generally agrees with the Lisbon one , although several periods are more developed , particularly some waves between 5h 30m and 9 " more developed at Kew .
The horizontal-force curves also agree ; but it must be remarked that the waves ( between 5h 30m and 91 ) , which are most developed at Kew in the declination , are less developed in the horizontal force than at Lisbon .
The two vertical-force curves generally agree ; but the phases at Kew are in advance of those at Lisbon .
The small peaks ( those which can be identified ) are inverted and simultaneous .
It is also noteworthy that the first vertical-force movementt at Kew is opposite to that at Lisbon .
The vertical-force Lisbon curve is greater in its movements than the declination , and consequently deviates from the general law .
Thus we see that the same periods of certain disturbances are manifested very differently in two stations so near each other as Kew and Lisbon .
The modification is the greatest , particularly in the periods which depart from the general rule at Lisbon , and are doubtless also abnormal at Kew .
From the examples here quoted , it is evident that a great value would be attached to the curves from another intermediate station ; for the little vertical-force peaks and hollows , being opposed at Lisbon and Kew , it would be very interesting to see if these peaks would be wholly or nearly absent at some intermediate station .
With a certain number of these magnetographs very discreetly placed , we may one day analyze the different forces acting on the needle in the different places on the earth-a manifest desirability .

