]\gt ; Theory of Amphoteric Etectrol ?
f tes .
of Amphoteric Electrolytes By Professor , University College , Dundee .
Received February ; 3 , \mdash ; Read February 18 , 1904 .
During the few years considerable attention has been devoted the behaviour of amphoteric electrolytes , , of substances capable behaving as acids towards bases and as bases towards .
The exhaustive investigation of such substances is that by WinkelbIech , who determined by the customary hydrolytic methods the dissociation constants of a number of amino-acids , both with respect to their Qation as acids and as bases .
The ionisation theory of these amphoteric electrolytes has not yet , however , been fully worked out , although the fundamental equilibrium equations have already been stated by Bredig , and it is the object of this paper to present the theory from the standpoint of the law of mass action and Arrhenius 's theory of electrolytic dissociation .
It is necessary first to deduce Ostwald 's dilution law for simple in the form in which we shall afterwards meet with it .
When an acid , say acetic aoid , is dissolved in water , the equilibrium between the ions present in the solution is expressed by means of two equations , o1le regulating the equilibrium between hydrion and the hydroxidion derived from the water , the other regulating the of hydrion and the anion of the acid .
Let the active masses ( molecular conoentrations ) of the various snbstances involved be expressed as follows : Hydrion a then , from the law of mass action , Anion Unionised acid HX ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , where is the constant ionic product for water , which includes within it the constant aotive mass of water , and is the dissociation oontant of the acid .
Now in order that the solution may be electrically neutral , the concentration of the positive ion must be equal to the snm of the concentrations of the negative ions , Summing ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) and substituting for ; we obtain . .
' Zeit . .
physikal .
Chem vol. p. o46 , 1$)01 .
'Zeit .
Elektl.ochemie , ' vol. 6 , p. 3 , 1899 .
Prof. J. Walker .
acids of moderate strength the value of may be obtained measurements of the conductivity of the solutions , and it been found that the results are then erally e by means Oslwald 's dilution formla , being the dissociation constant of the acid .
For all substances accessible to direct eloctrical measurement , the two expressions are in practice identical , for at has the , whilst the product has at least the value .
As then as conductivity measurements are concerned , Ostwald 's simple formula may be used instead of the strict theoretical formula .
lVhen we lsider the state of an tmphoteric substance such as glycine , anlino-acetic acid , COOH , in solution , it is apparent that if it aots both as acid and bass it must give rise to both hydrion and hydroxidion , the relative concentrations of which are ] egulated by equation ( 1 ) , which holds good for all dilute aqueous solutions hatsoever .
Further , if the substance is capable of bshaving as acid and as base simultaneously , the acid portion must netltralise the basic portion and form a salt .
There are two probable alternatives for the mode of nentralisation , first , the acid and the basic portion of one molecule may nentralise each other , thus or , second , the lcid portion of one molccule may ncutralise the )asic portion of , thus As the formor is more simple than the tter , is in accor\amp ; nce lvith known facts arding the molecular weight of such substances in solution , wo shall dherc to it in the following deductions .
Since we nnable by the methods hcre under discussion to guish between the umionised forms COOH and and ce by the law of mass action they must always exist is solution in ) proportions , provided the temperature is constant , we may for present purposes treat them as being one and the same substance .
Similarly with regard to the hydrated form HO .
COOH formed from either of the anhydrous forms by addition of water , the mass action law leads to the conclusion that the tion of it relatively to the total ionised glycine in the tion 1904 .
] of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
157 must be constant .
From this hydrated form we ssume the ions to be del.ived .
If the substance acts as base the ions produced are and ; if it acts as aoid the ions are , or the corresponding ion an Ionisation of the internal salt would , of course , give rise to the same positive and nsgative ions of the glycine as those just mcntioned .
As a matter of fact , according to the dissociation theory , all of these ions must exist together aqueous solution of , and we shall now proceed to develope the appropriate equations .
In general amphote electrolyte H.X.OH will form the ions , and unionised portion being either the hydron form H.X.OH or the anhydrous form X. Let the active masses of the various substances for equilibrium be represented as under :\mdash ; HXOH X For equilibritull between the various positive and 1legative ions pairs we have , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , Here for the moment that the combination of the ionS and ives rise to the anhydrous form X , in order to show from the equations that is proportional to , as has already been deduced from a consideration of the unionised substances alone .
Multiplying ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) together we obtain or , bubstituting from ( 5 ) and ( 8 ) , i.e. , the ratio of to is constant , the magnitudes and being all .
This result , that the relative proportions of the hydrous and anhydrous forms are independent of the dilution , has already been deduced in another way by Bredig .
Seeing now that the total unionised substance is always to , we vrite equations ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) in the form , in represents the acve mass of the total unionised olute .
The constants and are , of course , different from and represent the dissociation constants accessible to measurement from hydrolysis experiments or the like .
* Compare Walker , ' Jour .
Chem. Soc vol. sa , p. ( 1903 ) .
Prof. J. Walker ; From and 5 ) we obtain From ( and we obtain similarly Now the sum of the concentrations of the positive ions must ) to the sum of the concentration of the negative i.e. , or , substituting the values of and from ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) .
JultipIying both sides by .
and again making use of ( 5 ) , we obtain ( 12 ) , From equation 5 ) we obtain in terms of ; the value of is iven by ( 9 ) ; and finally from ( 10 ) and ( .5 ) we obtain are now able to express the conce trations of the various ions present in the aqueous solution of an amphoteric if know , as is in many cases easily possible , the concentration of the lmionised ) stance , the dissociation constants of the substance actlng acid and base respectively , and the ionisation constant of water .
From the above formulae it is evident in the first place that the electrical conductivity when treated in the ordinary way no measure of the aeidity or even of the ionisation of the dissolved electrolyte , for besides hydrion there is the positive ion , the concentration of which may greatly exceed the concentration of the hydrion , and whose velocity can only be about one-fifth of the velocity of hydrion .
The total conductivity is in fact the sum of four terms , each consisting of an ionic concentration multiplied into the corresponding ionic velocity .
It may be seen from equation that the concentrat on of the two positive ions are equal when .
If the ionised of Annphoteric Etectr ?
tes .
is small compared with the unionised , then is equal to , where is the number of litres in which one grammeis dissolved , and the concentrations of the positive ions will equal when is equal to .
At is greater than .
at less dilutions is eater t In order to see clearly how different an amphoteric electrolyte in conductivity relations from a simple electrolyte , whether acid , or salt , we may consider the case for which the substance is of the same strength as acid and as base .
From ( 11 ) deduce , and since from ( 5 ) the ab is constant dilute solutions , it follows that the concentration of hydrion and hydl.oxidion is equal to the concentration of these ions in pure water , ?
, the substance is at all dilutions absolutely neutral .
Its solutions , therefore , behave in this respect like those of a neutral salt , but differ from them in the effect of dilution on the molecular conductivity .
From ( 9 ) namely , we find that , and that is proporrional to here constant .
The ionised proportion is thus il constant of the total dissolved stance independently of the concentration , consequently the molecular conductivity is independent of the dilution .
Comparing different substances of this type with other , the proportion ionised is seen to vary directly .
If a had , that is , if the acidic and basic constants ere more than 100 times less than those of acetic acid or , the value of derived from 9 ) would be , or the substanee ) ( to the extent of per .
at all dilution ) , and therefore good electrolyte .
Comparing generally the expression deduced amphoterie llectrolyte , with the ession n for a simple acid with the same acid constant , we see that the equal to the latter divided by .
When , that is , }}-hen the electrolyte has no basie character , the divisor becomes equad to and the expression for a simple acid is obtained .
When have finite values , it is obvious that the anphoteric electrolyte strictly obey Ostwald 's dilution law .
If , however , either is very small , Ostwald 's dilution law is approximatelv , fo then the values of from the simple and amphoteric formula nearly and the expression for the concentration of the other ion nearly vanishes .
The the basic and the greater the dilution , the aeors likely is the to follow the dilution law characteristic sirnple acids and Prof. J. Walker .
Of the amphoteric substances measured by Winkelblech all at least to 100 .
In order then that the hold become small in comparison with unity , the concentration the ised substance ( which is roughly equal to the total for the compounds he investigated must be of the order that is , must be of the order 10,000 .
Solutions of feeble ving this dilution are practically beyond our ordinary surement of electrical conductivity , so that we may conclude lstonlary dilutions the amphoteric electrolytes studied by allItot give it dissociation constant when the values of the treated in the ordinary way .
This conclusion is in accordance 's electrical measurements , from which he endeavoured five lstances to calculate a dissociation constant .
The values differenr dilutions varied for each substance from 20 to 50 per cent. I. order to exhibit the elfect of the presence of even feebly marked aslc charaoter in an amphoteric acid , I have calculated the concenof the positive ions and for substances possessing the and basic oonstants , and pectively , the corresponding ratios being 1 , 10 , 100 , and 1000 .
The calculation was made for the most part by approximation , it being assumed in the first instance that the total concentration was equal to the concentration of the unionised snbstar A second approximation in which the value of obtained from the first calculation was adopted usually sufficed .
If a great nlany dilutions have to be calculated , the employment of graphical methods may effect a saving of time .
In the following table all of and have been multiplied by 10 comparison , the for for simple acid ve been added .
The vaIues of for a given dilution fall ofl as increases , and that , .
687 .
Theor ?
J of Amphoterie Etectrotytes .
the more rapidly as the difution is small .
It will be noticed that varies with the dilution much more rapidly than , which for high values of becomes nearly independent of the dilution .
What is most of attention is that ] thongh for the value the acid constant is still nearly millio1i times greater than of the basic constant , the acidity of the amphoteric bstanc is greatly diminished at small dilutions , being for example , only one-tenth of that of a simple acid with the same constant .
Although the concentration of the chief conducting ion of acids is thus greatly diminished , this diminution may be more than by the tively great concenGrations of the slower ion which appeal .
at the low dilutions .
With to the negative ions and , it may be seen from that in the cases above considered ) cannot exceed the value may thus be neglected in rison with the other ions .
It follows that the concentration of the remaining negative ion is equal to the of the tions of the positive ions , viz. , AI1 calculations made from the conductivities of solutions of tnphoteric electrolytes have hitherto proceeded on the assumption that the method of treatment might be adopted as applicable to simple electrolytes .
This is , as we see , far from being the case , and we consider what m of results amphoteric electrolytes the above constants wonld if their conductivities were treated this erroneous fashion .
Perhaps this is rendered most clearly apparent by calculating what values the Ostwald dissociation " " constant\ldquo ; would assume at different dilutio1l@ when dednced the ordinary process from the conductivities .
The molecular conductivity corresponding to H at infinite dilution be taken as from 350\mdash ; 370 at when eferred to reciprocal Siemens units .
The molecular conductivity of under the same conditions old be 60\mdash ; 70 .
From every concentration of , we may obtain a concentration of having equal condncting power , by dividing by a tmber varying from 5 to 6 to the substance considered .
If we this otient to the real value of we obtain a false value , which is assumed the value of in the simple calculation of the dilution const snbjoined table contains the es of the apparent Ostwald dilution consffint for the }teric e } considered aboys in the customary from the values each cnse the constarnt has beeJl multiplied by For it observed that a fairly good .
may be got , the values for the greater dilutions a limits of experimental error to } true valne / values of are no longer even } ] , increasin rapidly with dilution to attain at the trtle vcdue .
For we have in the ordinary range of ilutions a fall to a mnnmunl , which is when used , and also occurs ) when oyed .
In case at is ahout 7 per cent. ) eneath .
the trne vnlue of lally , with the value of at greatly eeds t trnc falls very rapidly the dilution to reach a at high tiorts which will generally appear in the usual ltlvestigate Hcre 1000 is 30\mdash ; 35 per cent. short of the trne For other vnlues of used in the above calculations the chnnge in the of with the tion is similar , because , as may be deduced from the formulae on pp. , the relative vcdues of for two electrolytes tvith the not vary greatly with the dilutio1l , at all dilntions tely proportional to the square roots of the acid constants as long as does not differ setlsil ) lie from now to the data , we find that Ostwald ) for ortho-amino-benzoic acid , ) , values of which steadily ) with confirmation of this result being subsequcntly furnished ) Their nnmbers arc given in the Ostwald for the rise in the value of the constant by adopting a suggestio11 of lVislicenus , that molecules might be formed according to the scheme referred to on p. 156 , and that the breahng np of these double molecules at increasing dilutions into simple ionisable molecules would a greater increase of ionisnOstwald , ' Zeit .
fur phvsikal .
Chem vol. 3 , p. 261 ( 1889 ) .
, p. 564 .
tion progressed than that to Ostwald 's This assumption , however , is , the already being competent to the facts .
The increase in the of .
in the range of dilution examined is obviously of the order as that calculated for should therefore expect to obtain from hydrolysis experiments co1tducted with the hydrochloride of the amino-acid a value for the ratio approximating to this number .
lVinkelblech f from the of methyl acetate in excellent ccordance with the theory .
He also determined the same ratio from the conductivity of of the hydrochloride and irled the divergent value 164 .
The sanlc discrepancy was observed most of the other ) stances he examined .
If ) consider , however , that he catalysis metho the concentration of one ion ouly , viz. , hydrion , whilst the co1tductivity method is } cerned with a equilibrium at least five kinds of ions , we see that the former is likely to yield the more accurate results .
This view recoives confirmation Winkelblech 's own data .
For the few substances with which there is agrcement between.the catalvsis and condnetivity methods , it is foll1lt that the latter gives concordant for the at all dilutions .
Where , on the other hand , the two methods do not yield the resnIt , there are also divergences the values of the ratio derived from the conductivities at different dilutions .
The ) tior ] , therefore , is that the catalysis method is more trustworthy the other .
It may be noted in that the is for monobasic amphoteric acids the acid is the value of the speeds of ) vnrious ious , it is possible to the molecular conduc.tivity , from this the dilution consta1lt If we take fro1n the table as the value of at tain 1 as the tpproximate } alue of , since the table shows that exceeds by 6\mdash ; 7 per cent. to the speeds of the ions we adopt bVinkell ) 's value the sum of the elocities of the nion .
There is ccrtainty as to the sum of the velocities of 1-ntiou and anion .
Tl .
velocities ) to the tiou in this and in instances are , in my tbly o the oic acids hc docs ot give dircctly the data from } he estimated the velocity of the tions , presumably the values were obtained ) the method as which he adopted for other tances , mcasurement of the of the hydrochloride in presence .e of excess of ) ving to the very nces i aqueous solution , the resuIts for , ' fin ' vol. 13 , p. 21 I. . .
J. Walker .
must be somewhat too high , and in consequence the speed of the is estimated at too high a figure .
In order to proceed in a way , I have added 6 in each case to the anion values found Winkelblech for the amino-benzoic acick , and adopted the figures obtained : the kation velocities in the succeeding calculations .
value of thus estimated is about 7 per cent. below that by adopting Winkelblechs velocity for the kation .
For the we have ting with these constants , we arrive at the values oeriven the following table:\mdash ; Acid , 1 : COOH .
The experimental values of the molecular conductivity are the means of the concordant series of and Winkelb ] each .
It will be seen that the agreement these the calculated values is very close .
comparison the " " constants\ldquo ; derived from the calculated and the experimental values of have been added .
The conductivities of solutions of -amino-benzoic acid have been measured ] ) the same ) servers , and Winkelblech determined the ratio , which he found } ) the catalytic method to be 210 .
With this constant the of appears to nearly 10 per cent. value of .
at for the latter the mean of the numbers found by Ostwald an Winkelbleeh , , we p-Amino-benzoic Acid , 1 : COOH .
Theory of Amphoteric tes .
165 values of calculated from the theory agree very well with iound by Ostwald , somewhat less well with those of Winkelblech .
most interesting point about the constant\ldquo ; is that there is a in both the calculated and experimental values at experimental data for meta-amino-benzoic acid are not so as those for the isomeric acids just considered .
Ostwald Winkelblech found widely divergent values of the conductivity .
in the following calculations use is made of Winkelblech 's the comparison of conductivities oan only be effected with The value of found by the hydrolysis method is 1n numbers 1100 .
This involves an addition of over 30 per oent .
at in order to arrive at an approximate value of in this case comes to be m-Amino-benzoic Acid , 1 : COOH .
Here it will be noted that the agreement is by no means so close as the previous instances .
This is probably connected with th fact the meta-acid rapidly oxidises in contact with platinum electrodes , assumes a dark brown colour .
The effect of this oxidation would most apparent in the dilute solutions .
Notwithstanding the want exact accordance , the run of the constants is similar , both the values from the theory and the values given by Winkelblech xhibiting a minimum at These instances exhaust the data in 's paper for which an exact oomparison of the theory with experiment is possible .
They range for of 110\mdash ; 1100 , and in each case the peculiarities of the ' constants\ldquo ; are faithfully reproduced by the theory .
xperimental investigation of some other substances to which the theory pplicable is at present in progress , and I hope in a to communicate the resuIts obtained .

