]\gt ; Meiolania platyceps .
Dynamical Principles . .
' On Parts of the Skeleton of Meiolania platyceps ( Ow.).\ldquo ; By Sir RICHABD OWEN , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received March .
( Abstract ) .
The subjects of the present paper are additional fossil remains of Meiolania platyceps from Lord Howe 's Island , transmitted to the British Museum since the author 's previous paper on the subject .
Additional cranial characters are defined and illustrated by drawings of more or less perfect specimens of the skull , of vertebrae of the neck , trunk , and tail , of limb-bones , and portions of the dermal skeleton .
The author sums up the affinities , deducible from the above parts of the skeleton , to the orders Chelonia and Sauria , with grounds for the .
, conclusion that the genera Megalania and are more nearly akin to the Saurian division of the class , in which he proposes refer those extinct genera to a sub-order called IV .
" " Some Appiications of Dynamical Principles to Physical Phenomena .
Part II By J. J. THOMSON , NI .
A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Received NIarch 31 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) This is a continuation of a paper wibh the same title published in the 'Phil .
Trans , Part II .
In the first paper dynamical principles were apphed to the subjects of electricity and magnetism , elasticity and heat , to establish relations between phenomena in these branches of physics .
In this paper corresponding principles are applied to chemical and quasi-chemical processes such as evaporation , liquefaction , dissociation , chemical combination , and the like .
Many of the results obtained in this paper have been or can be obtained by means of the Second Law of Thermodynamics , but one of the objects of the paper is to show that there other ways of attacking such questions , and that in many cases such problems can be solved as by the direct use of dynamic.al principles as by the Second Law of Thermodynamics .
A great deal has been written on the connexion between the Second Law of Thermodynamics and the principle of Least Action ; some of these } are criticised in the first part of the is satisfied , where and are respectively the mean values of th kinetic ftud potential energies taken over unit time , and where the variation denoted by is of the following kind .
The coordinates fixing the configuration of any physical system , consisting according to the molecular theory of the constitution of bodies of an immense number of molecules , may be divided into two classes:\mdash ; Coordinates , which we may call molar , which fix the configuration of the system as a whole ; and Molecular coordinates which fix the ation of individual molecules .
We have the power of changing the molar coordinates at our pleasure , but we have no control over the molectllar coordinates .
In the equation\mdash ; only the molar coordinates are supposed to vary , all velocities remaining unchangsd .
Hence in applying this equation we need only consider those termti in and which involve the molar coordinates , and expressions for these terms gases , liquids , and solids are given in the paper ; the of the paper after these have been obtained consists of applications of the above equation .
The density of a vapour in equiIibrium with its own liquid is obtained as a function of tlIe tempsrature , and the effect upon the density of such things as the curvature or electrification of the surface of the liquid is detsrmined .
The phenomenon of dissociation is next investigated , and an expression for the density of a dissociated gas obtained which agrees substantially in form with that given by Professor Willard Gibbs in lris well-known paper on the " " Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances The effect of pressure upon the meIting point of solids and the phenomena of liquefaction are then investigated , and the results obtained for the effect of pressure upon the solubility of salts are shown to agree with the results of Sorby 's experiments on this snbject .
The effect of capillarity upon solubility is investigated , and it is shown that if the surface-tension increases as the salt dissolves then capillarity tends to diminish the solubility , and vice versed .
The question of chemical combination is then considsred , pnrDynamical Principles to Phenomena .
299 hemists mhich aivision obase between t produces C while Cction oproduces Anbstances Aresent , such tction .
equilibrium ibtained aound tnvolve temperature ; whenr o ; . !
the temperature is constant it agrees in some cases with that given by Guldberg and Waage , though in others it differs in some important ncrease onity takes pwhen there iects .
Thus iumber o where is a constant ; are quantities such that if ( A ) represents the molecule of , with a similar notation for the other molecules , then the chemical reaction can be represented by the equation\mdash ; Thus if be respectively sulphuric acid , sodium nitrate , nitric acid , and sodium sulphate , in which case the reaction is represented by\mdash ; Then if the molecules of sodium nitrate and nitric acid be represented by and , and If , however , the molecules of sodium nitrate and nitric acid are represented respectively by and , then since the chemical reaction may be written\mdash ; , and According to Guldberg and Waage the relation between se , , 6 is\mdash ; ; VOL. XLII .
by the evolution of arge quantity of heat : The fecf of aIterations in tho external circumstances such those which may be produced by capillarity , pressure , or tion are investigated , and it is shown that anything giving rise to potentiaI energy which increases as the chemical combination goes on tends to stop the combination .
The last part of the paper is taken up with the consideration of irreversible effects such as those accompanying the passage of elsctrio currents through metallic conductors or electrolytes .
These are looked upon as the erage of a large number of phenomena which sucoeed each other with great rapidity .
The ordinary electrical equations with the usual resistance terms in , represent on this view the average state of the system , but give no direct information about its state at any particular instant .
It is shown that if we take this view we can apply dynamical principles to these irreversible effects , and the results of this application to case of electrical resistance are given in the paper .
V. " " Conduction of Heat in Liquids By C. , B.A. , King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received March 31 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
In this researoh the liquid layer through which the conduction takes place is of a moderate thickness , the object being to obtain results not open to the objections which can be raised against most previous methods , in which conduction has taken place through layers of very small thickness .
Two similar forms of apparatus , differing chiefly in size , were employed , but from the larger apparatus few results were obtained , and to these little independent weight is assigned .
The liquid was contained in a wooden tub , and heat was applied by pouring hot water into a metal dish supported so as to be in contact with the liquid surface .
At a given depth was fixed a fine platinum wire , and the variation in its temperature was determined by observing the variation in its electrical resistance .
By this means the temperature at a given depth in the liquid is determined for any instant subsequent to the of In applying the heat a given quantity of water , heated to a given

