96 Prof. F. O. Bower .
" Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
IY .
The Leptosporangiate Ferns .
" By F. O. Bower , Sc. D. , F.RS .
, Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Received April 6 , \#151 ; Read April 20 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The characters used in current classifications of Ferns need strengthening .
In recent years the more detailed knowledge of the prothallus has been used for this purpose , but while not denying its value in certain specific cases , the author holds that the vegetative development of the prothallus is an uncertain guide to a general classification .
On the other hand the archegonium is so uniform in its character that it gives little help ; the comparison of the antheridium is , however , a useful aid , though not sufficiently varied to serve in detail.* Accordingly the sporophyte must be the main basis .
Its vegetative organs have lately been largely used for systematic purposes by Christ ; f but the same objection holds here as in Phanerogams to the use of these as characters of first rank for comparison .
An attempt has therefore been made in this memoir to strengthen the characters derived from the sorus by a fresh examination of its details , and certain of its features will now be used for purposes of general comparison , which have hitherto received too little attention ; they are 1 .
The relative time of appearance of sporangia of the same sorus .
2 .
Certain details of structure of the sporangium , including its stalk .
3 .
The orientation of the sporangia relatively to the whole sorus .
4 .
The potential productiveness of the sporangium as estimated by its spore-mother cells , and the actual spore-output .
Observations of these features extending over all the more important living genera , coupled with data of habit and the characters of the Gametophyte as collateral evidence , have led the author to divide the homosporous Ferns thus :\#151 ; [ Marattiaceae Eusporangiate I Osmundaceae Simplices -j Schizaeaceae Gleicheniacese Matonineae Loxsomacese Hymenophyllaceae }\#166 ; Leptosporangiate ^ Cyatheaceae Dicksonieae Dennsta edtiinae The bulk of the Polypodiaceae Gradatae Mixtae * Heim , ' Flora , ' 1896 , p. 355 , \amp ; c. f * Die farrnkrauter der Erdo , ' Jena , 1897 .
Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
97 These divisions are primarily based on the order of appearance of the sporangia in the sorus , the Simplices having all the sporangia of the sorus formed simultaneously , the Gradatse having them disposed in basipetal succession , and the Mixta ?
having the sporangia of different ages intermixed .
But it is fomid that other important characters run parallel with these : thus the Simplices and Gradatse have an oblique annulus ( where definitely present ) , the Mixta ?
( with very few excep tions ) have a vertical annulus .
None of the Mixtse have been found to have a higher spore-output per sporangium than sixty-four , but this number is exceeded by some of the Gradatae , and large numbers are the rule in the Simplices .
The Simplices and Gradatse have relatively short thick stalks , the Mixtse usually have long and thin stalks .
The orientation of the sporangia in the Simplices and Gradatse is usually definite , in the Mixtse it is indefinite .
The receptacle is often elongated in the Gradatse , but not in the Simplices or Mixtse .
The sum of these characters , which for the most part run parallel to one another , appears to give a substantial basis to the classification .
Evidence as to the transition from type to type has been collected .
In the case of the transition from a simultaneous to a successive sorus it does not amount to a demonstration : but it is specially pointed out how slight a step it is from such a sorus as that of to that of an Alsophila :that given a basal indusium and marginal position , the similarity of sporangial structure and dehiscence between Gleichenia and Loxsoma is suggestive ; as also the sporangial structure and high spore-output in Hymenophyllum .
Though we may recognise these lines of similarity , they do not focus upon any one genus as the actual transitional link from the simultaneous to the basipetal .
But the transition from the basipetal to the mixed sorus can be followed in detail ; intermediate steps are seen in the Dennstaedtiinae , while the fully mixed type is seen in the closely allied Davallia .
Probably this is only one of several such lines of transition from the basipetal to the mixed type .
It is shown that a biological advantage would be gained by the suggested transitions .
In the Simplices the few sporangia are large , and , arising simultaneously , make a demand all at once on the nutritive resources of the part .
In the Gradatse the smaller sporangia are produced in succession upon an elongating receptacle , and the drain on the part is spread over a longer period* But with the assumption of the mixed character the drain may be spread over an equally long time , while , as the elongated receptacle disappears , the surface from which nourishment can be derived is enlarged , and the distance through which it has to be transferred is shortened .
Thus it appears biologically reasonable that the succession should be as suggested .
It is shown how the various types of dehiscence , and the action of the annulus stand in close relation to the orientation of the sporangia , H 2 98 Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
and to their arrangement in the sorus .
Thus the position of the annulus , which has played so important a part in classification , has been placed upon a footing of adaptation .
Estimates of numerical output of spores per sporangium have been made with a view to illustrating the relation of the Eusporangiate and Leptosporangiate ferns in this respect .
The estimated output in the Marattiaceae has been shown to be high ; * that of the Polypodiaceae is sixty-four or less .
The result of numerous countings is to show that , of all Leptosporangiate ferns , approaches most nearly to the Marattiacese ( Gl .
flabellata may produce over 800 per sporangium ) ; Osmunda may have over 500 , and Lygodium 256 .
The most interesting results were derived from the Hymenophyllacese , in which Him .
tunbi'idgense may have over 400 , while species of Trichomanes may produce as few as thirty-two per sporangium .
These results , when taken with those derived from the filmy Todeas , make it seem probable that the filmy habit is a condition leading to reduction of output per sporangium , and indicate that the Hymenophyllacese are a derivative series of reduction .
A most important commentary upon the classification proposed is derived from comparison of the antheridia , which Heimf found to be the most dependable part of the Gametophyte for comparative purposes .
He recognises two types according to their dehiscence : the one type includes , with the exception of two genera of Schizaeaceae , our Simplices and Gradatae , while the other includes the Mixtae .
I can only regard this correspondence of parts , so aloof from one another as the antheridium and the sporangium , as establishing the relations of the Simplices and Gradatae upon a firmer footing the facts also give substantial support to the distinction of the Gradatae and Mixtae .
The effect of the observations and comparisons in this memoir is rather confirmatory of the current classifications than disturbing .
The divisions suggested would supersede those of Eusporangiatae and Lep-tosporangiatae , though these terms would still be retained in a descriptive sense .
If the sub-orders Osmundaceae , Schizaeaceae , and Marattiaceae be transferred from the end of the Synopsis Filicum to the beginning , and grouped with Gleichenia and Matonia , we have the " Simplices " before us .
The Gradatae include the Gyatheaceae , Dick-sonieae ( Excl .
Dennstaedtia ) , Hymenophyllaceae , and Loxsomaceae , sequences probably of distinct descent , and , in my view , derivative from some prior forms such as the Simplices ; and in the arrangement of Sir Wm. Hooker they hold a position following on the Gleichenia-ceae .
The family of Dennstaedtiinae , founded by Prantl to include Dennstaedtia and Microlepia , also has its place here , but it leads on by intermediate steps to undoubtedly mixed forms such as * 'Studies , ' No. 3 , p. 60 .
f 1 Flora/ 1896 , p. 355* \amp ; c. On the Fertility of different Breeds of Sheep , $c .
99 Cystopteris , Lindsaya , and the Pteridese .
But this sequence is already laid out in this order in the Synopsis , and it illustrates one at least of the lines along which mixed forms are believed to have been derived from the Gradate .
No attempt has been made to follow the natural grouping of the Mixtse into detail , or to test the arrangement of them hi the Synopsis .
Sufficient has , however , been said to show that the systematic divisions of the ferns now proposed fall in readily with the system of Sir William Hooker , notwithstanding that they are based upon details of which he cannot have been aware .
" Note on the Fertility of different Breeds of Sheep , with Remarks on the Prevalence of Abortion and Barrenness therein .
" By Walter Heap , M.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. F. R. Weldon , F.R.S. Received March 9 , \#151 ; Read April 20 , 1899 .
The importance of fertility as a factor in the survival of a species is admirably demonstrated by Hafkine , * whilst Professor Karl Pearsonf shows that fertility when correlated with other characteristics works a progressive change , and that not only is fertility a race characteristic , but may be a class characteristic in the human species .
Among domesticated animals , although fertility may be a racial characteristic , its importance may be much reduced from a variety of circumstances .
Among sheep there is undoubted evidence of the racial character of fertility , but the quality of the wool or the value of fat sheep of a particular breed may render that breed worth keeping in spite of a low rate of fertility as compared with other breeds .
Then the rate of fertility may be artificially increased , as when certain rams of undoubted value as progenitors , but useless as breeders if left to themselves , become valuable sires by the help of the shepherd .
In the same way a certain breed of sheep , kept in one district and managed in a particular manner , may be more liable to abortion , or to barrenness , or to mortality among the lambs , than the same breed in another district managed in another way , and yet the former may , on account of the supply of food which it is possible to grow there per acre , prove the most remunerative .
From these and many other similar reasons the survival of a particular breed or its retention in , or importation to , a particular district is not necessarily due to natural fitness or adaptability .
At the same time a * " Recherches sir l'adaptation au milieu cliez les Infusoires et les Bacteries ; contribution a 1'etude de l'immunite , " ' Annals de l'lnstitut Pasteur/ vol. 4 , 1890 .
t " Contributions to the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
Note on Reproductive Selection , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 59 , 1896 .

