]\gt ; Glow-Lamps raised to High Incandescence .
II .
' On a Peculiar Behaviour of Glow-Lamps when raised to High Incandescence By WILLIAM HENRY PREECE , F.R.S. Received March 18 , 1885 .
1 .
During my recent visit to America ( October , 1884 ) Mr. Edison showed me a very striking experiment with glow-lamps , the lciple of which he had not threshed out , although he had attempted to apply it practically to the regulation of the current flowing in electric circuits .
FIG. 1 .
If .
be the incandescent of a glow-lamp , a thin narrow platinum plate fixed between the limbs of the filament with an independent wire connexion sealed in the glass globe , then , if a galvanometer be connected between , the positive electrode , and , a derived current will be observed to pass through , and through the rarefied space when the main current is increased to a certain strength , and the filament reaches a certain degree of incandescence .
The strength of this derived current will increase with the increased brilliancy of the glowing filament . .
Edison made for me several lamps of different forms and character to enable me to the phenomenon more carefully in England , and I have the pleasure of submitting the results of those experiments to the Society .
milliamperes .
Resistance was then added and a second reading taken ; then the resistance of the shunt is obtained from the - .
The electromotive force producing the current is The shunt circuit includes the rarefied space , and it is the resistanco of this space that we desire to know .
All the observations wele ultaneously made by different observers .
While one observed the behaviour of the lamp , another read the current flowing through the filament , a third read the currents in the shunt , a fourth varied the electromotive force , and a fifth recorded the results .
The electromotive force of the cells was carefully measured before and after the experiments .
No photometric were attempted .
3 .
Jiixperiment l.\mdash ; The connexions were made as shown in fig. 1 .
The lamp ( No. 4 ) was a short ( 75 mm. ) filament lamp , with a tinum plate 30 mm. long and 5 mm. broad .
The variation of the current and the increase in the resistance of the filament towards the end of the experiment , together with the behaviour of the shunt , are very noticeable .
It is quite clear that when the electromotive force attained 82 voIts , a critical point was when raised to High Incandescence .
Experiment 1 .
Remarks . . .
Normal incandescence , , 8 candles .
49,000 Diffused blue effect in globe appeared .
14,500 9,000 5,000 3,000 1,400 Blue effect brilliant .
2,000 1,300 1,300 1,700 1,600 1,400 23,000 26,0(K ) 19,000 25,000 Filament broke .
Interior of globe and faces of plate blackened .
reached .
From that point the [ lrrent in the filament remained very steady , but the resistance gradually increased .
The shunt increased in resistance enormously , and the current through it diminished , although the electromotive force increased very largely .
It is remarkable how steady the electromotive force in the shunt remained until the critical point was reached , when it suddenly increased and only oeached that of the main current at the point of rupture of the filament .
Again the current , which steadily increased until the point was reached , then diminished , indicating a considerable increase in the resistance of the rarefied space .
In one subsequent expenment , after the critical point was reached , no current could be obtained through the shunt .
, which , together with the galvanometer , made a shunt to the fil meant .
' This experiment was repeated upon different lamps , and the resu14 were so similar that it is not necessary to reproduce observe * tions .
In all cases an intimate connexion was observed between the blue eflect and the appearance of the shunt current .
4 .
One of Mr. Edison 's assistants showed me in Philadelphia th$t while the effect was very perceptible when the connexions were ma as shown in fig. 1 , being in connexion with the positive .
with the negative pole , no shunt current or a very slight one couJdb observed when the direction of the current was reversed .
I did not find this invariably the case .
One lamp ( No. 8 ) only\mdash ; a long filamelt lamp ( 150 mm. \mdash ; which gave a marked shunt current and tk blue effect , when the connexions were made as in fig. 1 failed give any current or blue effect when the current was reversed within the limits of the electromotive force at my command .
Doubtless I should have got both effects if I could have raised the electromotivo force .
In all cases , however , the effects appeared sooner and were more marked when the connexions were as shown in fig. 1 than when the direction of the current was reversed .
The effect of placing the galvanometer between and was the same as reversing the current .
5 .
As the effect might be due in some way to the material of tho conducting plate inserted between the limbs of filament , Mr. Hidison made for me lamps with copper , iron , and carbon plates .
The following experiments ( pp. 223 and 224 ) were then made , tho connexions being the same as fig. 1 .
No marked difference was thus observable .
If we examine the shunt current when the taint blue tinge it was : with carbon , ; with iron , ; and with copper , milliamperes .
6 .
It might be affected by the extent of surface of the metal plate , therefore lamps were made with a plate of fine wire , and also of very broad surface , but no difference was observable between thesa1 and the normal plate used .
when raised to High Incandescence .
Experiment 2.\mdash ; Carbon Centre ( single ) .
Experiment 8.\mdash ; Iron Centre ( single ) .
224 Mr. W. H. Preece .
Behaviour of Glow-Lamps 7 .
Lamp No. 9 was made with a double platinum plate , thus : FIG. 2 The following experiment shows that no perceptible difference was observable:\mdash ; when raised to High Incandescence .
Experiment 5.\mdash ; No. 9 Lamp ( double platinum ) .
8 .
Although the maximum effect was produced by Mr. Edison when the plate was fixed between the Iimbs , he obtained a current when it was fixed in any part of the rarefied space .
If the effect was due primarily to the Crookes effect , or to the projection of molecules from the carbon filament on to the metal plate , since this bombardment takes place in right hnes , we ought to have obtained eflects when these lines were projected on the plate , but no effects when they could not strike the plate .
Several lamps were made , which are shown in the following sketches .
9 .
The metal plate was taken from between the limbs of the filament , and placed at the end of a tube which had a portion of the filament exposed to the plate .
FIG. 3 .
Recommenced Dxperiment with 100 ooIts .
whem.aised to High Incandescence .
227 Reversed the current through the filament .
Returned to 90 voIts , and repeated the experiments .
Filament current readings the same before , and also the blue effects .
At 108 volts a slight blue effect noticed in the open end of the tube .
Doubtless , if I could have increased the electromotive force , the sults would have been more marked ; but they were sufficient to shoIv that the effects were evident , even though the rarefied space greatly extended , as in the case of the tube attached to No. 5 lamp .
10 .
The tube was constructed so that no portion of the filament was opposed by right lines to the metal plate ( fig. FIG. 4 .
11 .
A lamp was constructed with three branches at right angles to each other , as shown in fig. 5 , and each metal plate taken in succession , but no resuIts were obtained .
12 .
Professors Living and Dewar Proc. Boy .
Soc March 9 , 1882 ) observed a " " sort of flame\ldquo ; during high incandescence , showing by its spectrum the presence of carbonic oxide .
It was strongest about the junction of the carbon thread and the positive electrode .
It was , according to them , the glow of the positive pole attending a discharge in rarefied gas .
It is a common thing wibh glow-lamps which have the heels of the filament close together to have an arc forming across when the electro- motive force at the terminals is too high .
Hence in recent lamps requiring 100 voIts , Mr. Swan has considerably increased the distance between the electrodes .
Moreover , whenever the incandescence of FIG. 5 .
the filament is raised beyond a certain limit the interior of the glass envelope is blackened by a layer of carbon , which has been deposited by a Crookes bombardment effect .
W. hen the carbon filament is fixed on copper electrodes , the interior of the glass sometimes becomes coated with copper as well as with carbon , and the line between the two is perfectly marked , showing that the bombardment takes place in right lines .
Experiment 1 shows how very high the electromotive force can be carried , if it be steadily and rapidly i1icreased , before the filament is broken ; but practice shows that when once the blue effect appears , destruction is only a question of time .
Hence the blue effect is an indication of the advent of disintegration , and a very useful warning of danger ahead .
18 .
Now it is clear that we have a combination of the phenomena above described in the Edison effect .
A continuous bridge of molecules is formed between the junction of the carbon filament and the metal plates inserted between its heels .
They are fonnd deposited on the metal plate .
A shunt is thus formed whose resistance is measurable , and a definite current passes .
This shunt is formed just where the negative metallic connexion joins the heel of the carbon filament , as we should expect from the investigations of Mr. Crookes .
The current is , however , weak and variable , and it is scarcely reliable enough to be useful for practical purposes as was hoped by its discoverer .
When the critical point is reached the blue glow and flame seem to pervade the whole bulb , and the arc-hke effect , instead a aried apparently aixth power ourrent.erified taper Ipointed odnta tight etedR law , not subsequent experiments of my own , but , which is much mor satisfactory , by experiments of others .
Professor Kittler , of Darmstadt , and Captai made , independently of each other , most careful and exhaustive measurQl ments in this direction .
I bulated and trtlced them out in curves .
They fully confirm the law that but within limits , and that these limits embrace the ordinary ran ge of a lalIlp when used for artificial illumination .
As long as the resistance and the current uniformly together the law holds good ; but as the state of ndescence i increased , a point is reached , varying with each kind of lamp , when the ceases to diminish at the same rate , and eventually increases .
When this the law is departed from , and the light emitted increases less than the sixth. .
power of the current .
The filament speedily breaks .
The point of from , the law indicates a point when a change of state occurs in the carbon filament Disintegration probably sets in .
This point ought to be determined for each kind lamp , and it should never be allowed to be reached , for it is from this point thab decay commences and rupture follows .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , April 16th .

