1872 .
] On Extraordinary Refraction in Iceland Spar .
Fluid collected in minims .
Ammonia in grains per gallon .
1*9712 .1791 6-8807 2-1000 2-9568 .0985 Source .
Erysipelas .
Garden .
Drains .
Bed-room .
Stables .
Victoria Park .
XI .
" Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism.\#151 ; No. XIII .
" By General Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. , V.P.R.S. Received June 19 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author presents this paper as the companion of No. XI .
of his Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism , which contained the Magnetic Survey of the Southern Hemisphere from 40 ' south latitude to the extreme limit towards the southern pole , as does the present memoir , No. XIII .
of the same series , the three magnetic elements from 40 ' north latitude to the furthest attained limit towards the northern pole .
In both papers the mean epoch is the same , viz. 1842-5 .
Where it has been possible to do so , corrections to this mean epoch have been obtained and applied to earlier and later observations .
The determinations are derived from observers of all countries , and are arranged in zones , each of 5 ' of latitude , passing round the globe .
The Table thus formed contains between 3000 and 4000 stations at which the magnetic elements have been determined .
The observers are named , and references are made to the sources from whence their observations are taken .
The paper is accompanied by maps of the resulting Isogonic , Isoclinal , and Isodynamic Lines , executed at the Hydrographic Office .
XII .
" On the Law of Extraordinary Refraction in Iceland Spar .
" By G. G. Stokes , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , 1872 .
It is now some years since I carried out , in the case of Iceland spar , the method ol examination of the law of refraction which I described in my report on Double Refraction , published in the Report of the British .
Ss'ciation for the year 1862 , p. 272 .
A prism , approximately right-angled isosce es , was cut in such a direction as to admit of scrutiny , across the acute angles , in directions of the wave-normal within the crystal composing lespectively inclinations of 90 ' and 45 ' to the axis .
The directs ^ ' ^ *e CU^ ^aces were referred by reflection to the cleavage-planes , and m^-by to the axis .
The light observed was the bright D of a soda-flame .
vol 6 reSU^ 'bfained was , that Huygens 's construction gives the true law Mr. Latimer Clark on a [ June 20 , of double refraction within the limits of errors of observation .
The error , if any , could hardly exceed a unit in the fourth place of decimals of the index or reciprocal of the wave-velocity , the velocity in air being taken as unity .
This result is sufficient absolutely to disprove the law resulting from the theory which makes double refraction depend on a difference of inertia in different directions .
I intend to present to the Royal Society a detailed account of the observations ; but in the mean time the publication of this preliminary notice of the result obtained may possibly be useful to those engaged in the theory of double refraction .
XIII .
" On a Voltaic Standard of Electromotive Force .
" By Latimer Clark , M.I.C.E. Communicated by Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In the year 1861 a Committee was appointed by the British Association for the Advancement of Science to report on standards of electrical resistance , and subsequently on other standards of electrical measurements .
Reports were presented in 1862 , 1863 , 1864 , 1865 , and 1867 .
They recommended the adoption of a system of electromagnetic units based on the metre and gramme , the relations of the units being such that the unit of electromotive force acting through the unit resistance should give the unit current , and that the unit current flowing for the unit time should give the unit quantity .
They issued standards of resistance ( known as the B. A. unit or ohm ) and standards of electrostatic capacity , or condensers of such magnitude that when charged with the unit electromotive force they contained a submultiple of the unit quantity of electricity ( known as the farad ) .
No material standard of electromotive force has yet been issued .
Much difficulty has , in fact , been found in devising such a standard .
Mechanical means , such as the rotation of a conductor in a magnetic field of known intensity , are too complicated for ordinary use ; thermoelectric couples are extremely variable , and voltaic elements , which would constitute the most convenient form of standard , have been hitherto found singularly inconstant , and therefore inapplicable .
The Daniell 's element , which has been most frequently used for this purpose , commonly varies five per cent , or more without apparent cause .
From a conviction that if similar conditions could be ensured similar combinations would always give the same electromotive force , the author was led to institute a series of experiments , extending over four years , which led to the discovery of a form of battery that is sensibly constant and uniform in its electromotive force .
The battery is composed of pure mercury as the negative element , the mercury being covered by a paste made by boiling mercurous sulphate in

