On the Height of the Aurora Borealis above the surface of the Earth ; particularly one seen on the 29th of March , 1826 .
By John Dalton , F.R.S. Read April 17 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 291 .
] The author observes that opinions differ as to the elevation of the Aurora Borealis above the surface of the earth , and that this is a point which can be determined only by a series of concurring observations .
The appearance of a phenomenon of this kind on the 29th of March , 1826 , assuming the form of a regular arch at right angles to the magnetic meridian , and marked by peculiar features , continuing for above an hour in the same position , afforded a most favourable opportunity for obtaining the delata requisite for the solution of this problem ; and the author accordingly took great pains to collect as many authentic accounts as possible of the apparent position of this luminous arch with reference to the stars , when seen from various places where it had been observed in England and in Scotland .
It appears to have been actually seen in places 170 miles distant from one another , in a north and south direction , and 45 miles distant from east to west , thus comprising an area of 7000 or 8000 square miles ; but it must have been visible over a much greater extent .
Accounts were received of its having been seen as far north as Edinburgh , and as far south as Manchester and Doncaster , and at most of the intermediate towns ; and from the exact correspondence of the descriptions from all these places , it was impossible to doubt that they referred to the same luminous appearance .
In proceeding from north to south , the apparent altitude of the arch continually incteased , still keeping to the south of the zenith till we come to Kendal , at which place it very nearly crossed the zenith ; at Warrington , which is further south , the culminating point of the arch was north of the zenith .
Wherever seen , the arch always seemed to terminate nearly in the magnetic , east and west , at two opposite points of the horizon .
The observations , in which the author places the greatest confidence for determining the height of this aurora , were those made at Whitehaven and at Warrington , places which are distent 83 miles from one another , and situated nearly on the same magnetic meridian .
Calculating from the data they afford , he finds the height of the arch very nearly 100 miles above the surface of the earth , and immediately over the towns of Kendal and of Kirkby-Stephen .
This conclusion is corroborated by observations at Jedburgh ; but if the former be compared with those at Edinburgh , the height will come out to be 150 or 160 miles , and the position vertical about Carlisle : but he thinks the former result more entitled to confidence .
Assuming the height to be 100 miles , it will follow that the breadth of the arch would be 8 or 9 miles , and its visible length in an east and west direction from any one place would be about 550 miles .
The author then proceeds to take a comparative view of the results of inquiries on the height and position of other aurorse which have at different times appeared , and are recorded in the Philosophical Transactions and other scientific journals .
He also gives an account of a luminous arch seen both at Kendal and at Manchester on the 27th of December last , which appeared in the zenith at the former place , and was elevated 530 from the north at the latter place ; whence its height is deduced to be 100 miles .
From the general agreement of this series of observations , the author infers that these luminous arches of the aurora , which are occasionally seen stretching from east to west , are all nearly of the same height ; namely , about 100 miles .
Observations are still wanting for the determination of the length of beams parallel to the dipping-needle , which constitute the more ordinary forms of the aurora borealis ; neither can it be determined whether these beams arise above the arches , as from a base , or whether they descend below , as if appended to the arches .
It is remarkable that the arches and beams are rarely , if ever , seen connected together , or in

