197 The Nature of the Immune Reaction to Transplanted Cancer in the Rat .
By Wm. H. Woglom , M.D. ( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , Sec. R.S. Received March 15 , \#151 ; Read May 2 , 1912 .
) The purpose of the present paper is to extend to another species the investigation of the early history of tumour grafts carried out by Russell* in normal and immune mice , and to describe in detail the reactions taking place in and about fragments of the Flexner-Joblingf adeno-carcinoma of the rat after its transplantation into normal and resistant animals .
Immune rats were obtained by selecting those which had proved themselves resistant to one or two inoculations of the tumour in question , or by subjecting animals to previous treatment with 02\#151 ; 03 c.c. of an emulsion of rat embryo skin , and the introduction of the grafts destined to be excised for the study of early stages took place in all cases two or three weeks after the last immunising treatment .
Fragments removed after 24 hours show commencing degeneration of the stroma and of the parenchymal elements toward the central parts , while the tumour cells at the periphery have , on the contrary , preserved their vitality .
There is no visible difference at this time between grafts removed from immune rats and those from normal animals .
The most interesting epoch in the history of a tumour nodule which is establishing itself in a new soil is the third day .
In the majority of fragments removed from normal rats at this period the fibrinous exudate and the cleft , both formerly separating the graft from its host , have disappeared .
The fibroblasts of the surrounding connective tissue have entered into the growth , and are engaged in the building of a new stroma , while penetrating capillaries can be discovered at the edge of the young tumour .
The outermost cells of the parenchyma are in active mitosis , but the centre of the graft is quite necrotic .
In fig. 1 , representing the edge of a nodule which was removed 70 hours after implantation , the close connection between the growth and its host can be readily appreciated from the intimate commingling of tumour cells and connective tissue elements , as they are reproduced in the drawing .
A new capillary , containing blood , has entered well into the fragment , * Bussell , B. B. G. , ' Third Scientific Beport , Imperial Cancer Besearch Fund , London , ' 1908 , p. 341 .
+ Flexner and Jobling , 'Monographs on Medical and Allied Subjects , Rockefeller Institute , ' New York , 1910 , No. 1 , p. 1 .
198 Dr. W. H. Woglom .
Nature of the Immune [ Mar. 15 and is indicated toward the lower edge of the illustration to the right of the centre .
The hyaline remains of the old stroma , its penetration by polymorphonuclear leucocytes , and the serious involvement of its connective tissue cells are also reproduced , as well as the active mitosis that is in progress among the elements of the parenchyma at the growing edge of the graft ; but the necrotic tumour cells in the centre of the fragment are not included in the picture .
The surviving cells of the parenchyma , which have hitherto been content merely to sustain life and to proliferate as best they may , now often show signs of an attempt to assume an acinous arrangement .
1*\#151 ; Flexner-JobliDg adeno-carci noma .
Graft in normal rat 70 hours after implantation .
Entrance of new blood vessels and fibroblasts from the host ( on left ) .
Mitoses in parenchymal cells , old stroma degenerated .
Borrel , iron alum hematoxylin , x 410 .
Whether the new framework is derived entirely from the connective tissue of the host , or whether certain cells of the transplanted stroma survive long enough to participate in its construction , is a question difficult of decision .
Certain it is that all of the elements of the transferred stroma seem to be considerably damaged before the entrance of connective tissue corpuscles from the host ; still the possibility cannot be eliminated that the damaged 1912 .
] Reaction to Transplanted Cancer in the .
cells may in some cases be able to recover and continue their proliferation for a time .
Beyond reasonable doubt , however , nearly all of the introduced stroma perishes within the first few days , so that the framework of the new tumour is entirely , or almost entirely , the product of the host .
This view coincides with that of Flexner and Jobling , who have expressed the opinion that only the epithelial cells of this growth survive transplantation , that the new tumour is the result of their proliferation , and that its stroma is furnished by the connective tissues of the host .
There is little need to insist upon the contrast between the condition just described and that represented in fig. 2 , which reproduces a graft taken from L .
\amp ; L S S - ' Vv^'sadJi i 1\#187 ; : \#166 ; Jtcfyp s i ^ Sjp mm r 2 .
Flexner-Jobling adeno-carcinoma .
Graft in immune rat 72 hours after implantation .
The graft is still separated from the host tissues by a cleft and layers of fibrin .
No entrance of new blood vessels or \gt ; fibroblasts from the host .
Parenchymal cells at surface of graft still well preserved , connective tissues glassy and degenerated .
Borrel , iron alum haematoxylin .
x 410 .
an immune rat 72 hours after inoculation .
The outlying cells of the parenchyma are still well preserved at this period , and division figures are not infrequent , but there is no trace of acinous arrangement , and the cells lie either as irregular groups within the lacunae of the stroma , or else in single layers at the edges of the cleft .
The imbedded fragment is shrunken , it remains entirely separated by a space and a barrier of fibrin from the 200 Immune Reaction to Transplanted Cancer in the Rat .
neighbouring connective tissues of the host , and nowhere can there be detected that projection of fibroblasts between the cells of the tumour which invariably occurs in successful grafts .
In many cases the fibrin barrier is even more persistent than in the specimen from which the drawing was made .
After the third day , the graft in a normal animal is the theatre of a progressive and orderly vascularisation and formation of stroma* By the fifth , an acinous arrangement of the parenchymal cells is practically completed , and at the seventh day , the production of collagen having commenced in the new stroma , the implanted tumour is well on its way toward maturity .
Widely different conditions , on the contrary , obtain in fragments which have been introduced into resistant rats .
After the third day , degeneration of the graft ; becomes progressively more serious , and , in the absence of the p^Kjific stroma reaction , necrosis is complete by the tenth , although those .
' e fortunately situated at the margin of the fragment are able to transplanhitio11 a ^ 'aSeS even Pr'bferate , as long as eight days after described lnevitobly to 'he conclusion that the phenomena implantation occur awe , ' SnM"8 the immunity of mice to tumour Furthermore as M n-tt H he 'aSe of the resistance offered by rats , rats treated Uh embr " '0Uld ^ deteeted between grafts taken from undergone a previou an^ ^ose amoved from animals which had that resistance is similar^t'^^S Peculation with tumour , it is concluded failure on the part of the ^ 6 ^W ' cases\gt ; Both types are the outcome of a proper blood vessel snrmi h ' furnish to the implanted fragment the ^Pply and connective tissue scaffolding .
iilG CXp6Il868 of til* * .
fencer Bosearch Fund of'tbrr-1Si ?
1011 Were borne in part by the Crocker Diversity , Hew York City Physicians and Surgeons , Columbia

