]\gt ; Mr. W. H. Pendlebury and Miss M. Seward .
III .
" " An Investigation of a Case of Gradual Chemical Change By W. H. PENDLEBURY and M. SEWARD .
Commumcated by A. G. VERNON HARCOURT , Esq. , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The case of gradual chemical change with which the present investigation deals is that between hydrogen chloride and potassium chlorate , and also its reaction with hydrogen chlorate whether alone or in presence of potassium chloride .
When dilute solutions of a chlorate ( as for instance potassium chlorate ) and chloride are mixed together , the liquid slowly acquires a chlorous smell , and there is a gradual liberation of oxidising material , chlorine , and oxides of chlorine .
These immediate products cannot easily be investigated , for if the mixture is left to itself so that they accumulate in it , the gradual reaction first observed is stopped , and there ensues decomposition of the usual complex nature of these nnstable solutions of chlorine and its oxygenated compounds .
But if a small quantity of potassium iodidc is present it will be decomposed by these substances , and iodine will be gradually liberated as the final product of the reaction we have mentioned .
Now Messrs. Hal.court and Esson , in their work on a gradual chemical change , measured the at which iodine was liberated in a liquid by ascertaining the time taken for a known quantity of sodium thiosulphate added to that liquid to be entirely decomposed .
A small quantity of starch solution was added at the same time , and served as the signal of the presence of free iodine , which meant that the measured quantity of sodium thiosulphate was exhausted .
The observation to be made was of the interval of time which elapsed between the addition of the thiosulphate and the first appearance of a blue starch coloration .
same measurement and the same signal served our purpose .
The first obvious difference between the two reactions is that , whereas in the fol.mer one ( between hydrogen dioxide and hydrogen iodide ) iodine was the primary result , in the later one it is a secondary resuIt .
This proved an unimportallt difference .
The secondary reaction between potassium iodide and the resuIts of the first is , by comparison , instantaneous .
But another difference is of great importance .
In their the rate of decomposition became uaJly slower , as one of the substances reacting continued decrease sensibly in amount , and finally appeared .
In this reaction the amount of each substance decomposed bears an infinitely small 1888 .
] A Case of gradual Chemical Change .
125 ratio to the amount of each present ; the composition of the mixture thus remains practically unchanged , and the rate of decomposition in each mixture is constant .
Each experiment then is brought to an arbitrary close as soon as the constant velocity has been determined by the observation of a few intervals .
The subjects of investigat on were : the comparison of the velocities in different mixtures , and thus the establishment of laws connecting variation in velocity with variation of each of the ingredients .
In a large number of experiments hydrogen chlorate was used .
Mixtures of dilute solutions of the two acids , chloric and ochlorlc , were made in various proportions ; being arranged in several series in each of which the amount of one of the acids present was varied in arithmetical progression , and the effect upon the rate investigated .
Then the effect of presence of certain quantities of potassium chloride upon the was observed , for the purpose of connexion with a new sel.ies of experiments .
In these potassium chlorate and hydrogen chloride were used , and series for variation of one of the ingredients taken as before .
The eflect of varying the quantity of potassium iodide ) esent and of varying the te1nperatures were also observed .
The results may bo thus briefly summal.ised : Chlorate.\mdash ; The rate varies with the amount of chlorate , in the first place , directly , as a substance taking part in the cbcmical reaction ; and in the second place with a small acceleration proportional to the quantity present , so that the subsbance a coefficient of action independent of its being a participant in the eaction .
Thus\mdash ; , where represents quantity , and co1lstants .
Variation drogen Chloride.\mdash ; The variation of rate with that of hydrogen chloride is not of this simple nature .
It would seem to hc ( 1 ) an effect of the secondary order above meant , ioned ( accelerative ) on the decomposition of hydrogen chlorate by itself , and in addition to this ( 2 ) an cffect of both and secondary order on the decomposition of en chlorate with chloride .
Variation Potussium Chloride .
addition of this salt has a small accelcrative effect on the normal rate proportional to its quantity .
It thus appears to be a salt not part in the reaction .
a mixlure of solutions of potassium ] and ogen oride in molecular proportion between 1 : 2 and 1 : 12 is made , complete double decomposition ensues , the hydrogen chlorate formed , in presence of the hydrogen chloride remaining , liberates oxidising 126 Nlr .
A. Mallock .
materia ] , and the potassium chloride formed exercises its specifi influence on this reaction .
The secondary action upon potassium iodide producing iodine iS an instantaneous one , unless the qualltity of this substance is below a certain minimum .
Below this the velocity observed in the mixture will be less than normal .
The effect of increasing the amount of this snbstance to much greater than the minimum is closely analogous to that of a similar increase of any neutral salt .
The velocity is an exponential function of the temperature , as was observed in Messrs. Harcourt and Esson 's investigations .
As the latter increases in arithmetical progression , the former increases in geometrical progression .
The rate is about doubled for a rise of C. The ratio in this progression is not , however , absolutely constant , but varies a little with the temperature at which it is taken .
Thus between and C. the rate is a little more than doubled for a rise of ; between and it is a little less than doubled . .
" " mination of the Viscosity of Water By A. MALLOCK .
Communicated by Lord BAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received November 30 , 1888 .
The experiments here described , which were made during April and May of the present year ( 1888 ) , to determine the constant of viscosity of water , may be of some interest on account of the newness of the method employed , and also as being on rather a larger scale than other experiments which have been made with the same object .
Fig. 1 gives a section of the apparatus used .
A and are two coaxial cylinders ; of these A is mounted on the vertical axis Fi , and can be made to rotate by a belt passing over the wheel is suspended by a long fine wire , and the annula space between A and is filled with water or any other fluid to be experimented on .
A little way above the lower edge of is fixed an air-tight phragm , so that when the space between the two cylinders is filled with liquid air is enclosed under , and the liquid touches only on the cylindrical surface .
The interior of above is filled with water which serves the purposes of checking the torsional vibrations of , of preventing any rapid change of temperature of the liquid in the annulus , and of holding the thermometer .
The experiments were made by driving the cylinder A at a uniform speed and recording the angle through which is turned when it comos to rest under the action of the fluid friction 011 its cylindrical surface and the torsion of the suspending wire C. A was driven by

