190 Capt. Abney .
On Coloured Spectra .
[ June 19 , XI .
" On the Production of Coloured Spectra by Light .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1879 .
( Preliminary Xote .
) Last year I incidentally mentioned in a note to the Royal Society ( " Proceedings , " vol. xxviii , p. 291 ) , that the production of natural colours by the agency of ..light , examples of which were shown by Becquerel , was probably caused by the oxidation of silver compounds employed .
I have ventured to return to the subject , in order to show that the colours are so produced and are not due to interference .
I have sent , for the Society 's inspection , pictures of the solar spectrum on silver plates , and also on compounds of silver held in situ by collodion .
It will be observed that the spectrum has imprinted itself in approximately its natural colours ; that on the silver plates it is more brilliant than on the collodion film , but that in the latter the colours are seen by transmitted as well as by reflected light .
I reserve for the present the exact details of the production of these pictures , but may say that they are produced by oxidation of silver compounds when placed in the spectrum ; an exposure of two minutes being amply sufficient with a wide slit to impress the colours .
The colouring matter seems to be due to a mixture of two different sizes of molecules of the same chemical composition , one of which absorbs at the blue end and the other at the red end of the spectrum , and the sizes of these molecules are unalterable whilst exposed to the same wave-lengths as those by which they were produced .
I believe it possible and probable that the colours may be preserved unchanged when exposed to ordinary daylight .
XII .
" Relations between the Atomic Weights and certain Physical Properties ( Melting and Boiling Points and Heats of Formation ) of Elements and Compounds .
" By THOMAS Carnelley , !
) .
Sc. , Assistant Lecturer on Chemistry in Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present paper is to trace the influence of the atomic weights on the melting and boiling points and heats of formation of elements , and especially of their compounds .
It is shown that , as regards the elements , the melting points are a periodic function

