]\gt ; On the for Body By GEORGE W. WALKER , A.R.C.Sc .
, M.A. , F.R.S. , formerly Fellow of Irinity College , Cambridge .
( Received January 8 , \mdash ; Read February 12 , 1914 .
) In a recent paper*I showed that the experimental data with regard to " " black body\ldquo ; radiation could be represented exceedingly well by an empirical formula for radiation function at temperature , and wavelength , viz.:\mdash ; I further indicated an electric system which gives rise to an emission , function which is a generalised form of the above empirical expression .
It is a matter of interest to see if one can learn more as to the character of a system which would give the empirical form precisely .
The method of doing so by Fourier analysis was indicated by Lord Rayleigh .
The form of the primary disturbance which leads to the above spectral distribution of energy is found to be very simple , and almost suggests itself If we take a function of the time such that for then the Fourier representation of the function is and , further , for a number of arbitrary disturbances of this type we get The spectral distribution of is thus of the form , and since varies as , we thus get the empirical form as far as enters .
The further interpretation of the formula now depends , as regards detail , upon whether we proceed in terms of pure dynamics or electro-dynamics .
In the first case we should regard as proportional to the velocity of displacement , and in the second as proportional to the acceleration of the ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. 393 ( 1913 ) .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 27 , p. 460 ( 1889 ) .
On the Formula for Black Body diation .
displacement .
But in either case the radiation between frequency and will be expressed by where A is a quantity defining the amplitude of the disturbance , and is the number of such disturbances per second .
In order to obtain Wien 's displacement law must vary as , and then we get Stefan 's law if varies as , and the formula reduces to the empirical form The important point we have obtained is that , in order to have this -energy distribution , the primary type of disturbance required is a solution of. .
the equation which expresses the motion of an aperiodic dynamical system .
Further , must be proportional to .
But the present analysis does not indicate : how this occurs , nor how and A separately depend on temperature .
The primary type of disturbance can also arise as a solution of electrodynamic equations .
Such an interpretation raises points of importance which I have not yet had opportunity to consider fully .
APPENDIX .
[ Added January 29th , 1914 .
] In response to requests from several quarters as to the agreement between the formula and the data , I add the following information which I have been able to obtain .
If we choose the.constants in Planck 's formula and my own so that they give the same value for Wien 's constant and so that they agree at the maximum , we get the following table:\mdash ; The two curves are shown in he figure .
Mr. G. W. Walker .
Interrupted hne\mdash ; Planck 's curve .
Continuous line\mdash ; Walker 's curve .
The ordinates by Planck 's formula are less than those by my formula for and greater than mine when .
But the area of the whole curves I find to be the same to 3 per cent. Passing to the data , it is clearly not easy to discriminate between the formula within small ranges of wave-length .
Thus Warburg 's recent work , *within a range of about 1 , is not of much assistance .
I have had to go back to the older measurements .
Lummer and Pringsheim give a curve of emission for absolute from to about 18 .
I find that it lies almost exactly between the two theoretical curves , the advantage being very slightly in favour of my own formula .
finds very good agreement with Planck 's formula for any one wave-length at different temperatures ; but he explains that in order to fit * Ann. .
Phys 1913 , p. 613 .
' Verh . .
Deutsch .
Phys. GeselL , ' 1900 , p. 177 . .
' Ann. .
Phys vol. 4 , p. 277 ( 1901 ) .
On the Formula for Btack Body Radiation .
49 Planck 's formula over his range from about 1 to 9 he requires to assume that for " " some unknown cause\ldquo ; the spectrum is weakened in passing to increasing wave-lengths , and that the observed values must be multiplied by increasing factors , the factor at 9 being , I understand , as compared with 1 at 1 .
This is hardly convincing proof , and the facts suggest that my formula would avoid the necessity for these factors .
Buben values for long waves up to 50 are relative and give good , agreement with any formula that converges to Lord Rayleigh 's form .
If , however , we could compare the values for long waves with those at 1 we have a means of deciding between the two formulae as follows .
Writing Planck 's formula in the form we get the comparative table\mdash ; Thus , if we chose in each formula so as to get the total radiation or ( as it happens ) the maximum radiation to agree , then Planck 's ordinates for long waves would be times the ordinates from my formula .
It is worth while to note that it must be rather difficult to determine the maximum wave-length accurately .
The table suggests that we could get independently and hence for any temperature by comparing the total and the maximum radiation .
Both formulae would give the same value for to 3 per cent. ' Ann. .
Phys 1901 , vol. 4 , p. 649 .
VOL. XC.\mdash ; A.

