]\gt ; 428 Prof. W. H. Brag and Mr. W. L. Brag .
[ Apr. investigation given above has been confined to that portion of the on the red side of the blue .
If we wish to extend our investigation into blue and violet then we should have to take account of the effect of the blue sensation .
Further , although it seems quite clear that the major part of luminosity perceived in that part of the spectrum including the red , yellow and green , at any rate with fairly bright spectra , is due to the red and greeq sensations , there is much evidence to indicate that , at any rate in the green and blue , there is a fourth sensation which may be called the fundamental : .
white sensation .
This probably corresponds to the rod-effect of von Kries , which would have to be taken into account if extremely minute differences of luminosity were under consideration , or were with spectra of .
small intensity .
The Reflection of -rays by Crystals .
By H. BRAGG , , F.B.S. , Cavendish Professor of Physics in the University of Leds ; and W. L. BBAGG , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Received Apri17 , \mdash ; Read April 17 , 1913 .
) In a discussion of the Laue photographs it has been shown*that they may conveniently be interpreted as due to the reflection of -rays in such planes within the crystal as are rich in atoms .
This leads at once to the attempt to use cleavage planes as mirrors , and it has been found that mica gives a reflected pencil from its cleavage plane strong enough to make a visible impression on a photographic plate in a few minutes ' exposure .
It has also been observed that the reflected pencil can be detected by the ionisation method .
For the purpose of examining more closely the reflection of -rays in this manner we have used an apparatus resembling a spectrometer in form , an ionisation chamber taking the place of the telescope .
The collimator is replaced by a lead block pierced by a hole which can be stopped down to slits of various widths .
The revolving table in the centre carries the crystal .
The ionisation chamber is tubular , 15 cm .
long and 5 cm .
in diameter .
Tt can be rotated about the axis of the instrument , to which own axis is perpendicular .
It is filled with sulphur dioxide in order to increase the ionisation current : both air and methyl iodide have also been used occasionally to make sure that no special characteristics of the gas W. L. Bragg , ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc vol. 17 , Part I , p. 43 .
W. H. Bragg , ' Nature , ' Jan. 23 , 1913 .
hamber affect tonisation currentis measured dance method hound ieflect aortion orimary r oduce affect c The slit which the primary pencil of -rays emerges from the box iner .
Since tfrom tnticathodee engular width obout athird odegree i the latter case .
In the same way a slit 2 mm. wide and mm. long admit , S the reflected pencil to the ionisation chamber when preliminary measurements are being made , or when the whole effect is feeble ; and this width can be cut down to mm. when desired .
The distance from either slit .
to the axis of the apparatus is 8 cm .
We have foumd it best to keep the bulb ver .
" " soft The cathode stream has often been visible over its whole length .
As will be seen later it is desirable to determine angles of incidence and reflection with great accuracy .
This was not anticipated , and the circular scale was only divided into rees , and was made too small .
Nevertheless , it is possible to read tenths of a degree ; a better and more open scale is now put in .
Let us suppose that a crystal is placed on the revolving table so that the cleavage face passes through the axis of the instrument .
Let the incident pencil fall on the face and make an with it ; and let the crystal be kept fixed while the ionisation chamber is revolved step by step through a series of angles including the double of , the ionisation current being measured at each step .
The results of such a set of measurements are shown in fig. 1 .
In this case the crystal is FIG. 1.\mdash ; Begular reflection from rock-salt ; and it has been so that the cIeavage face of rock-salt , incident pencil makes an angle of \mdash ; as glancing angle given by the apparatus\mdash ; with the incident beam .
The points marked in the figure show the result of setting the ionisation chamber at various angles and measuring the current in each case .
chamber spparatus trotation of the chamber or .
The figure that these limits are actually observed ; the whole curve lies well within the range to .
The source must therefore be nearly a point .
ation chamber hetermined , irror ahamb beWhen trelation between tngles orystal mirror a swept together through an extended range , the relation between the angles such that the chamber always shows the maximum current for each setting of the crystal .
It is convenient to use the wide slits for a preliminary examination of this kind .
When the effect is small the wide slits can alone : be used .
But in a number of cases it is possible to use the narrow slits in ordel to make a closer survey , and where this is done much more information , can be obtained .
The curve in fig. 2 shows the results of a sweeping movement of this kind , the crystal being iron pyrites .
Curves for rock-salt are drawn in figs. 3 , I , and 3 , II .
It will be observed that there are peculiar and considerable : variations in the intensity of the reflection at different angles .
The three u peaks marked , and are common to the curves of all crystals so far : investigated , e.g. zinc blende , potassium ferrocyanide , potassium bichromate , quartz , calcite , and sodium ammonium tartrate .
They are readily distinguishable by their invariable form , relative magnitudes , and spacings .
: Moreover , the absorption coefficients of the rays reflected at these separate 1 angles do not vary with the nature of the crystal or the state of the bulb .
It happens that the actual angles of reflection of the three sets of rays nearly the same for several crystals .
The use of the narrow slits permits a closer examination of these 5 Degrees .
FIG. 3.\mdash ; Reflection ( I ) from face ( 100 ) and ( II ) from face of rock-salt .
The curves show the variation of strength of reflected beam with angle of incidence .
effects ; but , of course , it takes much longer time to make , and more space to exhibit .
The results for iron pyrites are shown in the series of curves of fig. 4 : a series in which each curve is obtained in the same way as the curve of fig. 1 , the crystal being set at some definite angle which is altered in going from curve to curve .
The curves are arranged so that the vertical distance between the horizontal lin es of reference of any pair is proportional to the difference in the angles of setting of the crystal in the two cases .
In comparing the curves at the different angles two principles must be borne in mind .
In the first place if there is a general reflection of rays throughout the whole range of the pencil which is emerging from the slit near the bulb , the curves show , as in fig. 1 , a maximum with similar slopes Prof W. H. Brag and Mr. FIG. 4.\mdash ; Detailed examination of reliection Here is the bulb slit , the axis of the instrument , and the chamber slit .
When the crystal face is in the position PR , let us say , the ray OP strongly marked homogeneous pencils of sharply defined quality ; they occur 1 at ( uncorrected chamber angles ) , and .
What we have called ; the general reflection may comprise many other definite pencils , but they are scarcely resolved at all in this series of curves .
Their presence is , however , fairly obvious .
A series of potassium ferrocyanide curves shows them much more clearly .
Three of this series are shown in fig. 4 , and their peculiar forms indicate to what extent interpretation has yet to be carried .
When these neous beams are isolated by the use of narrow slits , it is possible to determine their absorption coefficients in various substances .
In the end , there is no doubt , this will be done with great acculacy ; for the present , our results must only be looked on as provisional .
They are , perhaps , right to 5 per cent. for many purposes this is quite sufficient .
In the case of rock-salt we find the mass absorp , tion coefficients in aluminium of , and to be , and respectively , the last being the most doubtful and probably too low .
The absorption coefficient of the -rays in Ag is 74 , in Cu 140 , in Ni 138 ; these values are approximate .
We have made no exhaustive determination of the coefficients in the case of various crystals , but in a number of cases , all those tried , we have found them to be the same .
There can be little doubt the three peaks are , in all cases , due to the same three sets of homogeneous rays , rays which do not change with the state of the bulb , but may well do so with the nature of the anticathode .
It atinumis vound bhapman fharacteristic radiation oefection observed tbsorption coefficient oeast penetrating s hows Tetermined wreat accuracy ; enwith haratus twithin 1 The angles at which the special reflections of these rays take place are not \amp ; : The readings for zinc blende and calcite are not corrected for errors of setting .
The difference in the case of the two faces of rock-salt gested an attempt to find a repetition of the characteristic three peaks at multiples or sub-multiples of those at which they were first observed .
For the sines of and ( half the angles of the chamber settings of the peak in the two cases ) are and respectively .
These are very nearly in the ratio 1 : .
If the effects are true diffraction effects such a lelation might be expected .
The { 111 } planes are further apart than the { 100 } planes in the ratio 2 : ; the sines of angles of special reflection should be in the inverse ratio , : 2 .
True , the sines of the angles have been increased in the ratio 1 : , instead of diminished in the ratio 2 : , but it is not at all unlikely that a spectrum in one case is being compared with a spectrum of higher or lower order in the other .
We , therefore , made a search for other spectra and found them at once .
In the case of rock-salt we found traces of a third .
The full rock-salt curves are shown in fig. 3 for the two kinds of face .
The peaks first found are marked , and their repetitions there is a trace of also .
The corrected positions of are , and .
The sines of the halves of these angles are , and , and are very nearly in the proportion 1 : 2 : 3 .
The absorption coefficient of the rays at is the same as that of the rays at In the case of the rock-salt section { 111 } a spectrum occurs at half the angles first found .
This is shown in fig. 3 , II .
It is not at all strongly beyond that of wave.length .
These results do not really affect the use of the corpuscuIar theory of X-rays .
The theory represents the facts of the transfer of energy from !
electron to -ray and vice , and all the phenomena in which this transfer is the principal event .
It can predict discoveries and interpret them .
It is useful in its own field .
The problem remains to discover how two hypotheses so different in appearance can be so closely linked together .
It is of great interest to attempt to find the exact wave-length of the rays to which these peaks correspond .
On considering Curve I , fig. 3 , it seems evident that the peaks are analogous to spectra of the first and second orders , because of the absence of intervening sets of peaks .
The value of in the equation seems clear .
The difficulty of assigning a definite wave-length to the rays arises when we atcempt to determine the value of , the distance of plane from plane .
* We learn that Messrs. Moseley and Darwin have lately been making similar to some of those recorded here .
Their resuIts , which have not been published , : agree with ours .
1913 .
] The Reflecbion of -rays by rystals .
437 3 .
There is strong evidence for supposing that the atoms of a cubic crystal like rock-salt , containing two elements of equal valency , are arranged parallel to the planes { 100 } in planes containing equal numbers of sodium ; and chlorine atoms .
The atoms in any one plane are arranged in alternate rows of each element , diagonal to the cube axes , successive planes having these rows opposite ways .
The question arises as to whether the value of is to be taken as that between two successive planes , or two planes identical in all respects .
The value of in the one case is twice that in the other .
The centres of the atoms of sodium and chlorine , regarded for the time being as identical , are arranged in a point system , having as unit of its pattern a cube with a point at each corner and one at the centre of each cube face .
The dimensions of this elementary cube can be found in the following If the side of the cube is of , the volume associated with each point in the point system will The mass of a hydrogen atom being .
and the density of rock-salt , we have This gives The distance between planes passing through atoms identical in all respects is this distance .
The wave-length , as calculated in this way , is for the peak B. But half-way between these planes which are identical in all respects are situated planes containing the same number of sodium and chlorine atoms , though the arrangement is not in all respects the same .
Possibly this tends to make the odd spectra due to the first lot of planes disappear , and , if this is the case , we must halve the first estimate of the wave-length , and put The difference between these two values corresponds to as a unit of the point system\mdash ; ( 1 ) The group , the smallest complete unit of the crystal pattern .
( 2 ) The individual atom of either nature , associated with only one-eighth of the volume of the complete unit .
We have also examined the reflection from the ( 110 ) face of the rock-salt , and have found the peaks situated such angles as indicate that the ratio of The wave-lengths to be associated with the spots in the photographs taken by Laue of the diffraction of -rays by crystals are much smaller than these 1 values .
They belong to the region in which we have found reflection to take plaoe at all angles , a region in which the peaks do not obviously occur .
This } : agrees with the distribution of intensity amongst the spots .
The experimental method can be applied to the analysis of the radiation from any soulce of -rays .
It may , however , be able to deal only with intense radiations .
The three sets of rays issuing from the bulb we have been using have angles of reflection whose sines are The reciprocals of these are , 5 , and .
The frequencies , and therefore , according to Planck , the corresponding quantum energies , are in arithmetical progression .
In this there is some hint of analogy with .
's recent work on the of the various types of -ray from Prof. Barkla has lately communicated to the Physical Society an account of certain experiments in which a diffuse pencil of -rays , when reflected on the cleavage plane of a crystal , acted on a photographic plate , producing a series of bands .
The effect which we have been describing is clearly identical in part with that which Prof. Barkla has described .
It is impossible , of course , to criticise a communication of which we have seen an abstract only .
But it seems probable that the ionisation method can follow the details of the effect more closely than the photographic method has so far been able to do : and that in this way it is possible to distinguish between those bands which represent distinct sets of rays , and those which are repetitions of one and the same set .

