XXIV .
Sccoant of a mineral Substance , called Strontionite , tX which are exbibtted its external , physical , and chemical Cha racters .
By Mr. Jolln Godfrey Schmeisser , F. R. S. Read May 29 , 179+* rnSi HIS substance has obtained its name from the place Stron tion in Scotland , where it is found in granite rocks , accompanied by galena and witherite , which latter is describedv byDr .
WI THERING in the Philosopllical tRransactions of the year 1 784\#162 ; On all the specimens which I have seen of this substance , I could not discover any regular crystallized shape , like the witherite .
The specimen which I sublmitted to experiments , was in solid masses of a fibrous texture , apparently c.omposed of long fibres , closely adhering to each other , and disposed in a radiated xllannerS its colour was an asparagus greenj which appeared : cieepWer towards the centre of the nlass ; when broken , theXsurface was a little shining in certain directions , the fragments rather bar-like , and somewhat brittle .
Some specimens exhibit only light shades of this colour ; and appear to be composed of long thin bars\#171 ; which are often .
separated from each other towards the extremity .
rl he specinlen nvhich I examinedn and used for experiments ; ras semitrarlsparent but the luost part of it rather incliaing to opaque As to hardness , its surface could be scratched with a hard knife , but not scraped .
Its specific gravity I found as , G86 , compared to distilled water of 60 ' temperature .
Properties of the Szzbstalzge .
N. B. the first experimentsX which pointed out a distinction between its basis and the ponderous earth of SCHEELE , were made , at Dr. GRAWFORD'S desire , by his assistallt Mr. CRUIK_ SHANK , and were afterw-ards repeated by himself w the account of which is inserted in the second volllme of the Medical Communications .
EX PERI MEN T I. I reduced a certain quantity of the substance to a very fine powder , and boiled it in water for some time , but no solution took place .
EXPERI MEN Tl I. ith acids .
It was llot affected by sulplluric acidS but was entirely soluble in nitric and muriatic acid , with a strong effervescence during which a great quantity of gax was dis engagedX which when triedn was entirely aksorbed by lime water , extinguished flame , and had no smell .
EXPERI MEN TII 1 .
Diluted sulphuric acid dropped into a diluted solution of this substance in nitric and m-arine acid , occasioned a white powdery precipitate , which was insoluble in water .
EXPERIMENT IY A piece of the substance was exposed to the action of the blow-pipe , did not crackle nor split asunder , nor did it meal when even exposed to white heat , but it discovered a very bright phosphorescent light became more brittle , and had lost its greenish cast ; it was then partly soluble in water It only lost a lrery little of its weight , when exposed for a long time to white heatS but it then still effervesces with acids .
EXPER I MEN T V. It melted with borax and soda with ebullition , but neither a blue nor a green colour was produced when melted with the first .
EXPERIMENT VI .
Liquid olatile alkali did not extract any blue colour from the powdered substance , nor when added to the solution in acids .
EXPERIMENT VII .
The solutions sn nitric and muriatic acid were icolourlessy and a piece of paper dipped into this rlitric solutiGn burut with a red flame , which was first observed by Dr. Asz .
EXPERIMENT v IIl .
Phlogisticated alkali , or prussiate of pot-ashf added to a sa turated solutionS discovered a very slight quantity of blue precipitate .
EXPERIMENT IXo Oxalic acid , or acid of sugar , added to the diluted solution\#171 ; discovered a very slight precipitate .
EXPERIMENT X. The remaining liquid of the foregoing experiment was mixed with sulphuric acid , until no ulore precipitate took place , the remairsing filtered liquor was sathrated with purified pot-ashs and no earth was separated or discovered EXPERIMEN-T XI .
A certain quantity of the powdered substance was dissolvedS and saturated witha nitric acid , and evaporated ; it therl crystallized , the crystals were permahent in air , diEl not cleliquesces and exhibited triangular and sexangular plates .
EXPERIMENT XII .
When dissolved and saturated with muriatic acid , it exhibited on evaporation long six-sided prismatic crystalss which have the broad alternating with the narrow sides , terminating in obtuse trihedral pyramids ; this was observed by Dr. CRAW_ FORDS who also found that the salt formed of the substance with avids bliss ) !
ved tiz water , produced five times more sold than the salt fro the baryles in the same acid a that the salt formed by marise acid and this substance was much more soluble zn warxn wczZer than zn colcS , whilst the muriat of barytes is nearly as soluble in cold as in warm water , that one ounce of dfistilled water dfassolves tZiree times as musb of the muriat of Strontionite aws the muriafS of &gt; 6arytes , which makes a distinctzon between the basis of thzs sxbstance and the barytes .
EXPERIMENT XIII iNitric acid added to the solution of that substance in muriatic acid , occasiorled a decomposition .
EXPERIMEN T XIV .
A tuantity of this substance wasdissolved in muriatic acid , the solution much diluted with distilled water3 and afterwards precipitated by diluted sulphuric acid The precipitate was dried and decomposed by purified pot-ash , by means of heat .
The earth which was thus separated , vas perfectly freed from saline parts , afterwards dried and calcined , in order to dSeprive it of moisture .
A qualltity of this earth was again dissolved in acid , in orcler to ascertain the quantity of carbonic acid , or fised airg which it contained , and the real proportio of ptlre earth colltained in a certain quantity .
I then found by accurate experiTnents , ost .
That loo grains of specific sulphuric acid required oqS graills of the pure earth for saturation 2dly .
That loo grains of nitric acid required 94 grains , and Sdly .
That loo grains of muriatic acid required $6 grains for saturation .
Which experiment ascertained the dormgnt affinity of this earth to those acids .
I also ascertained in the same way , lst .
That loo grains of sulphuric acid required 9So grains of barytes 2dly .
That loo gralns bfnitric acid required 120 grainsn and Sdly .
That the same quarltity of muriatic acid required 96 for saturationS which gave that dortuant affinity betwist the barytes and those acids .
From these experimelats r dresv the following concluslons .
lst .
That according to experiment -I .
the substance con t-asined no saline parts .
2dly .
That according to experiment II .
it contained fixed air dly .
That according to experiment lII .
it contained an earth somewhat similar to barytes .
4thly .
That according to experiment IV .
it disco^ersno crystallizing water .
*thy T}at according to experiment s. the substarlce contained no cobalt .
6thly .
That according to experiment VI .
the substance cortained no copper .
7thly .
Tha:t accortling to experiment VIII .
it contained a little irorl .
8thly .
That accordilag to experiment IX .
the substance con tained calcareous earth .
gthly .
That according to experiment s. the substance COlltained no argillaceous nor magnesiatl earth .
lothly .
Th ?
^t according to the last experiment , the base of this substance is distinct from the barytes .
In order to ascertain the quantity or proportion of compo nent parts of this substance , EXPERI M-EN T I.One hundred grains were dissolved in acid , and yielded 3o grains of fixed airy EXPER I MEN TI I. .
The solution was diluted , and mixed with oxalic acid , br mearls of wshich half a grain of calcareous earth was separated ( ill the state of oxalate of lime ) .
EXPERIMENT III .
The remaining solution was decomposed , and yielded 69 grains of pure earth .
According to these experiments , ooo grains of the analyzed substance contains go grains of fixed air , l of calcareous , and 68 grains of another earth , which may be called Strontion earth , and the remaining weight may be accounted for , froFm the substance which gives it the colour , and which I sllggest , from comparative experiments , to be phosphate of iron and manganese , the proportion of which I could not accurately ascertain , on account of the smallness of the specimen which I possessed , and svhicll I employed for analysis , but which I shall endeavour to ascertain by future experiments on a larger scate , In order to compare the nature of the substance with which it ^ras accompanied to the before-mentioned substance , I made the following experiments .
This substance was crystallized in six-sided prisms with pyramids , colourless , semitransparent , rather opaque towards the basis , and less hard than the other substance ; a certain quantity of it I reduced to fine powder , and submitted it to various experiments , by which I found that it contained barytes , calcareous earth , and carbonic acid .
One hundred grains of this substance were dissolved in marine acid , during which o grains of carbollic acid were se parated ; the solution was gently evaporated , and exposed t &lt; ?
; crystallize .
The crystals were then exposed for some time to air in a funnel , during which part of the crystals had deliquesced .
When no more deliquescence was observed , the whole liquor was diluted with a sufficient quantity of distilled water , and diluted sulphuric acid was then added , by means of which 2 grains of barytes were separated .
The filtered liquor was then decomposed by alliali , and 12 grains of calcareous earth were separated .
The dry crystals remaining on the funnel were then dissolved in distilled water , and also decom posed by alliali , by means of which 68 grains of barytes were obtained .
According to these experiments , loo grains of this crystallized substance yielded by decomposition 70 grains of barytes , , ^ grailas of carbonic acid , and 12 grains of calcareous earth .
The difference of the 3 remaining grains may be accounted for by the waters by the small loss which was observed whela the crystallized substance was exposed to a strong heat , and also from the crackling which was perctived when exposed to a sudden heat .
Wlaether this crystallized sulestance is different from that specimen which Dr. V\rzE .
RING allalyzed , or when there the calcareous earth escaped his obsersation during his experiments , I cannot decide , as he does 1lot melation that lae employel the substance ill a crystallized stctte tsor his experiments.t # The experiments newly communicated by Mr. KIRNNZAN , and those which are promised to be comtnunicated by DrO HOPE ) Will probahly thIOW soul more light on the nature of the StrontlonlteX 1

