The Organogeny of Asterina gibbosa .
December 7 , 1893 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Sir John Lubbock .
Dr. Perkin .
The Marquis of Salisbury .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. u The Organogeny of Asterina gibbosa .
" By E.TV .
MacBride , B.A. , Demonstrator of Animal Morphology to the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received September 13,1893 .
Having been engaged in studying the development of Asterina gibbosa during the past year , I think it advisable to publish an account of the results already obtained , as these are of considerable interest , and it may be long before I can complete my investigation .
As this is only a preliminary account , I shall ignore statements which conflict with my results , noticing only the results of other workers in so far as they confirm my work .
The classic research of Ludwig* on this subject is well known .
The advances I have been able to make on his work concern chiefly the later larval stages and the metamorphosis .
Ludwig finds a regular segmentation , giving rise to a ciliated blastula ; typical embolic invagination follows , and the blastopore , placed at first in the centre of the ventral surface , is carried by growth to near the posterior end , and functions for a short time as larval anus .
In the meantime the archenteron becomes divided into an anterior thin-walled portion , and a posterior thick-walled one .
The latter becomes separated as the definitive gut , which is soon joined by the larval oesophagus , which arises as an ectodermic invagination , the former becomes the coelom , sending back a horn on each side of the gut .
On the left side , in the prseoral portion of the coelom , we find a pore opening to the exterior\#151 ; the madreporic pore .
* " Entwicklungsgeschichte der Asterina gibbosa .
" ' Zeitschrift fur Wiss .
Zoologie , ' vol. 37 .
VOL. L1V .
* H Mr. E. W. MacBride .
[ Dec. 7 , My results diverge from those of Ludwig at this point .
What follows is the result of my own work .
The coelom becomes , as shown in fig. 1 , and the arrangement of its divisions strongly recalls that Fig. 1.\#151 ; Diagram of a Longitudinal Horizontal Section through a late Larva of Asterina of Balanoglossus .
By the outgrowth of a pair of vertical transverse septa , a pair of posterior coelomic cavities is separated off ( 3 ' 3 , fig. 1 ) , this separation being for a time incomplete ventrally .
Simultaneously , two outgrowths from the anterior cavity appear , growing backward , and overlapping to some extent the posterior cavities .
Of these , the left opens for a long while by a wide aperture into the anterior cavity , whilst the right is almost immediately completely segmented off .
These are the paired rudiments of the water-vascular system , the right and the left hydroccele .
In one larva I found them equally developed , hut usually the right hydroccele has the form of a small closed vesicle , which persists for life in the neighbourhood of the madreporite .
These cavities I compare to the collar cavities of Balanoglossus , and find support for this view in the structure of Cephalodiscus , where the collar cavities are prolonged into long , pinnately-branched arms , comparable to the radial canals of the water-vascular system of Echinoderms , with their rows of tube feet .
There is no hcemocoelein Asterina gibbosa ; cavities lined with 1893 .
] The Organogeny of Asterina gibbosa .
433 epithelium are derived from the coelom .
The radial perihaemal canals and their connecting outer circular perihaemal canal are derived from interradial diverticula of the coelom , one of which ( fig. 1 ) is shown in the figure .
The longitudinal septa in the radial canals are due to the apposed walls of adjacent interradial rudiments .
The axial sinus ( ax .
, fig. 1 ) surrounding the stone canal is the posterior division of the anterior body cavity into which the pore canal opens .
Bury* * * S states that in a future paper he will prove this , but he has not fulfilled his promise .
The stone canal is a groove in the neck of communication between the anterior coelomic cavity ; it becomes constricted off , and forms a tube opening at its distal end into the axial sinus , close to the inner end of the madreporic pore canal .
This arrangement has been seen by Ludwig , but what he has not seen is that it persists in the adult , and hence he failed to recognise the rudiment of the axial sinus .
The dorsal organ , the heart or " central-blutgeflecht , " is nothing more than an ingrowth of the left posterior coelom into the septum separating the posterior coelomic cavities from the axial sinus ( d , fig. 1 ) .
It soon becomes solid .
From its upper end in the adult the genital rachis grows out , as Cuenotf inferred , and I have elsewhere proved.^ Since the genital organs are formed later , as local swellings of this rachis , the ultimate origin of the sexual cells , in Asterina as in Vertebrata and Annelida , is coelomic epithelium .
The aboral sinus surrounding the genital rachis is formed from a special diverticulum of the coelom .
As Ludwig has pointed out , the prseoral part of the larva becomes converted into a special locomotor organ .
It is foot-shaped , has long cilia , and also functions like a tube-foot , as a temporary fixing organ .
Ludwig did not observe , however , that during the metamorphoses , having given up its locomotor functions , is converted into a permanent fixing organ or stalk .
This arrangement persists for some time after the larva has acquired the adult form , for it is for a time unable to use its tube feet , and when displaced from its attachment floats helplessly about .
BuryS has shown that the stalk of Crinoids is likewise the praeoral lobe , and the free swimming larva of Antedon strongly resembles that of Asterina , the main difference being that the larval mouth , which soon closes in Asterina , is never formed in Antedon , in which also the anterior body cavity is of less extent , * " Studies in the Embryology of Echinoderms , " H. Bury , * Quart .
J. Mic .
Sci. , ' 1889 .
t " Contributions a l'Etude Anatomique des Asterides , " L. Cuenot .
' Archives de Zoologie Experimentale , ' T. v. bis .
+ " The Development of the Dorsal Organ , G-enital Rachis , and Aboral Sinus of Asterina gibbosa , " E. W. MacBride , * Zool. Anzeiger , ' No. 419 .
S " The Early Stages of Antedon rosacea , " H. Bury , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1888 , B. Mr. E. W. MacBride .
[ Dec. 7 , and is completely separated from the hydroccele .
The just fixed larva , in both cases we take to represent the ancestor of Echirioderms , just after it had given up its free-swimming life ( fig. 2 ) .
The curious , and as yet unexplained , peculiarity of Echinoderms , the predominance of the left side ( left hydrocoele and left posterior body cavity ) , soon made itself felt .
Starting from this point , however , ontogeny plainly teaches us that Asterina and Antedon have diverged in two opposite directions .
In Antedon an excessive growth of the ventral surface has rotated mouth and hydrocoele backwards and upwards awray from the stalk ( fig. 3 ) .
A precisely similar change to this takes place , as we know , in Giona and and it is to place the mouth in a favourable position to catch pelagic prey .
In Asterina , on the other hand , the body is flexed ventrally on the stalk ( fig. 4 ) , so Fid .
2.\#151 ; Supposed Ancestor of Asterids and Crinoids .
1893 .
] The Organogeny of Asterina gibbosa .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Early Stage in Development of Crinoids .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Early Stage in the Development of Asterids .
Mr. E. T. Newton .
[ Dec. that the ends of the hydroccele meet round it , and the mouth is approximated to the substratum , so that the animal can feed on the mud beneath it , which is impregnated with organic matter .
It follows that the ahactinal poles of Asterina Comatula are not comparable tvith each other , and that all conclusions based on the supposed homology of the dorsocentral in Echinids and Asterids , and that in Crinoids , are incorrect .
II .
" .Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone :\#151 ; Description of Two-New Genera .
" By E. T. Newton , F.R.S. Received November 2 , 1893 .
( Communicated by permission of the Director-General of the Geological Survey .
) ( Abstract .
) Since the reading of the previous paper " On some New Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone " ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1893 ) , the author has received several additional specimens from the same formation in the neighbourhood of Elgin , but not from the same locality , and representing other groups of Reptiles .
Two of these specimens , being new and interesting forms , are described in detail .
One of them is the property of Mr. James Grant , of Lossiemouth , and is contained in a small irregular cube of sandstone .
The bones themselves having been dissolved out , as in the earlier described fossils , their forms have been reproduced by gutta-percha casts taken from the cavities left in the stone .
This reptile was evidently a small Para-suchian Crocodile , allied to Stagonolepis ; it is now represented by the skull , which is about 3 inches long , and the anterior half of the body , with the pectoral arch and both the fore limbs .
The skull is depressed , has a pair of supratemporal fossae and a pair of orbits completely surrounded by bone , and in front of the latter , on each side , a large prelachrymal fossa ; the two nasal openings are small , and placed near the end of the muzzle .
The palate is narrow and deeply grooved , with primitive posterior nares placed far forwards .
The teeth vary in size , are slender , conical , and recurved , and restricted to quite the anterior part of the upper jaw .
The vertebrae are slightly biconcave ; the 9th has distinct double articulations for the ribs , but how far this character extended forward is uncertain .
The scapulae are long and slender , while the coracoids are short and wide .
There is an interclavicle .
The humeri have each a strong pectoral crest , and are Crocodilian in form ; the radius and ulna are slender bones ; the carpals are indistinct ; five metacarpals aie present on each side , but only a few of the phalanges are to be seen .
Above the vertebrae there is a double row of small , pitted , and closely-set scutes .
This small Parasuchian is named Erpetosuchus Granti .

