277 The Relation of Excised Muscle to Acids , Salts , and Bases .
By Dorothy Jordan Lloyd , B.Sc. , " N " Fellow of Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by W. B. Hardy , Sec. R.S. Received March 10 , 1916 .
) ( From the Zoological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE The Influence of the Acidity ( or Alkalinity ) of the Medium on the Final Equilibria ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .277 The Behaviour near the Neutral Point ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
278 The Time Curves in Acid , Neutral , and Alkaline Media ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
281 The Relation of Gelatine to Acids , Salts and Bases ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
286 Muscular Swelling Interpreted as an Osmotic Phenomenon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
287 Summary ... ... ... ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 289 References ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
... ... ... ... ... .
290 The Influence of the Acidity { or Alkalinity ) of the Medium on the Final Equilibria .
The observation that both acids and alkalies cause swelling in excised muscles , and that this swelling is suppressed by the addition of neutral salts , is no new one .
The pernicious influence of acids on muscle is referred to as a commonplace by Ringer in 1883 ( 20 , 21 ) and quantitative data of both acid and alkaline swelling are given by Loeb in 1897 ( 11 ) .
Nevertheless , the subject has never yet received systematic investigation at the hands of any one worker .
The following record of experiments showing the behaviour of excised muscle in a range of solutions from decinormal alkali to decinormal acid is intended as a contribution towards filling this vacancy .
An account of some preliminary experiments on the swelling of excised muscle has already been published ( 9 ) .
The method of work in the present case is precisely the same .
The sterno-cutaneous muscle of the frog was used in all experiments , and the temperature was kept constant at 20 ' C. in a thermostat .
Excised muscles placed in acid solution swell rapidly .
In hydrochloric acid , which was used in my experiments , the maximum swelling is at a concentration 0-005 normal .
This concentration corresponds to a hydrogen ion concentration of 10"23 grm. per litre of solution .
At concentrations less than 0'005 normal the degree of swelling diminishes with decreasing concentration , reaching a minimum at the neutral point , i.e. in distilled water .
At Miss D. J. Lloyd .
greater concentrations than 0-005 normal the swelling diminishes with increasing concentration .
This is shown in fig. 1 .
zoo \#166 ; OO -10 '09 'OS .
07 .06'OS 04- -03 02 Fig. 1 .
Abscissae = acidity and alkalinity expressed as fractions of normal .
Ordinates = final weights expressed in percentages of initial weights .
The continuous line curve is for acid or alkali in distilled water , the dotted curve is for acid or alkali in Ringer 's solution .
In the alkaline solution used ( caustic soda ) the maximum swelling is also at 0-005 normal .
This corresponds to a hydrogen ion concentration Ch = 10-11*7 ( i.e. 10-11,7 grm. hydrogen ion in 1 litre of solution ) .
The degree of swelling in alkali is not so great as for the corresponding acid .
The curve of swelling in alkali falls sharply both above and below the concentration 0*005 normal , as is also shown in the same figure .
The Behaviour near the Neutral Point .
Fig. 1 is a graphical representation of the swelling of muscle in acid or alkali of varying strength .
The percentage increase over the original weight is plotted as the ordinate , and the normality of the solution used as the abscissa .
It can be seen from the figure that the greatest changes in the degree of swelling occur over a very narrow limit of concentration .
The point of minimal swelling is drawn , in fig. 1 , at the point of absolute neutrality for the external medium .
Both to the right and left of this point the curve rises very rapidly .
In fact , by using the " normality " of the medium as the abscissa to the curve , and the degree of swelling as the ordinate ( as has been done in fig. 1 ) , it can be seen , merely by studying the form of the curve , that very minute changes in the concentration of the hydrogen ion present in the external medium must correspond to large changes in the The Relation of Excised Muscle to Salts , and Bases .
279 final equilibrium of the muscle system .
It therefore seemed necessary , in order to obtain an accurate record of the phenomena exhibited in an excised muscle in a medium with a reaction near the neutral point , to use some more accurate method of controlling and measuring the acidity or alkalinity of the experimental fluid .
The scale obtained by taking " normality " as a measure of acidity is not sufficiently fine to investigate the muscle behaviour at a critical point such as the neutral point of the medium , or the iso-electric point for the muscle .
It was , therefore , decided to investigate this critical zone by means of Sorensen 's solutions ( 24 ) .
This method not only gives a delicate means of adjusting the hydrogen ion concentration of a solution to any desired value , but also , by means of the " buffers , " keeps this value steady when foreign bodies ( such as muscles ) are put into the system .
In Sorensen 's papers there are two different units which have been used to express the concentration of hydrogen and hydroxyl ions in a system .
The units Ojj or Cqh mean respectively the number of grammes of free hydrogen ion or hydroxyl ion present in a litre of solution .
They are always given as powers of the base 10 , and always have , for obvious reasons , a negative sign to the index .
The other units used , expressed by the general term PH , are the logarithms of the values CH and , for general convenience , the negative sign is usually omitted .
In distilled water Ch = C0h = 10-7*1 , or PH = 7*1 , and P0h =7*1 .
Now in any solution PH + POH = 14-2 , therefore , as Ph increases , Poh decreases .
From this it follows that if in any solution Ph \lt ; 7*1 , the hydrogen ions predominate and the solution is acid ; if Ph \gt ; 7*1 , the hydroxyl ions predominate and the solution is alkaline .
The curves obtained by measuring the reaction of a solution by Sorensen 's system , and plotting this value against the final equilibrium weight of a muscle immersed therein , are given in fig. 2 .
The curves in both figs. 1 and 2 are of the same type , i.e. they are curves obtained by plotting acidity ( or alkalinity ) against final equilibrium .
They differ in their method of measuring acidity .
In fig. 1 acidity is measured on the comparatively rough scale of " normality , " i.e. on the titration value of the solution .
In fig. 2 , the actual concentration of the hydrogen ion in the solution is taken as the measure of its acidity .
As the points \#151 ; 0*01 N and +0*01 N in fig. 1 correspond to the points PH = 11 and Ph = 3 , respectively , in fig. 2 , it can be seen that the critical zone on the curve in fig. 1 has been expanded over a considerably wider area in fig. 2 , and can therefore be studied with correspondingly greater accuracy .
The data for making the Sorensen solutions were taken from the chart figured by Walpole ( 25 ) .
The acetate , phosphate , and borate mixtures were used , and by this means a range of Ph from 3 to 11 was examined .
The Miss D. J. Lloyd .
results of experiments on the degree of swelling in the different solutions are given in fig. 2 .
It will be noticed that the degree varies according to Fig. 2 .
Abscissae = negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration .
Ordinates = final weights expressed in percentages of initial weights .
I = curve in HC1 ; II , HC1 +Ringer 's solution ; III , in NaOH ; IV , in NaOH +Ringer ; V , in Na2HP03+KH2P03 ; VI , in Na2HB03+HCl or + NaOH ; VII , in NA + HA .
the buffer used , the curve for the acetate mixture lying well above the curve for the phosphates .
This observation is in line with Bechhold 's statement that the phosphates have a greater power of reducing the swelling of gelatine than the acetates .
It should be noted here that the molecular concentration of the solutions is as follows:\#151 ; Phosphates , M/ 15 ; borates , M/ 10 ; acetates , M/ 5 .
The concentration , however , does not materially affect the final equilibrium .
The region of least swelling for the excised sterno-cutaneous is in all solutions from PH = 5 to PH = 7 .
In the phosphate mixture the weight of the muscle falls to 87*5 per cent , of its initial weight .
This region is one in which the muscles are coagulated .
They are quite opaque in appearance , and the fibres are contracted .
The iso-electric point for the muscle colloids undoubtedly falls within these two values , and it is interesting to note in this connection that the iso-electric points of serum globulin and albumen are also in this neighbourhood .
It can be seen from the phosphate curve in fig. 2 that at PH = 5 , the muscles are coagulated and shrunken .
At Ph =4 on the acetate curve , the hydrogen ion concentration is sufficiently great to cause the muscle to swell to 270 per cent , of its original weight .
The rise of the curve on the alkaline side is much more The Relation of Excised Muscl , e to Salts , and Bases .
281 gradual .
It is already noticeable at Ph = S on the phosphate curve .
It has increased very slightly at Ph = 9 , and also at PH = 9 and PH = 10 on the borate curve .
Between PH = 10 and Ph =11 there is a considerable rise , the muscle swelling to 140 per cent , of its initial weight .
In the pure caustic soda solution of the same concentration ( PH = 11 EE N/ 1000 ) the muscle swells even more than in the borate solution , and reaches 190 per cent , of its initial weight .
Besides the curves already referred to in figs. 1 and 2 are given the curves obtained by adding hydrochloric acid or caustic soda to an isotonic ( 0'125 molecular ) solution of sodium + potassium + calcium chlorides ( Ha : K : Ca = 100 :1:1 ; these are the proportions in Binger 's solution ) .
It can be seen that in acid solutions the presence of the salts acts strongly antagonistically to the hydrogen ions .
In alkaline solutions the salts at first reduce swelling , though not to a very great extent .
Subsequently they seem to increase it .
This behaviour may possibly find a parallel in Hardy 's observation that acids and salts act antagonistically in their solvent power for globulin , bases and salts act additively ( 7 ) .
Ho attempt was made to determine the amount of salt necessary completely to inhibit swelling at any one point on the curve .
In view of Hardy and Wood 's work on gluten ( 27 ) , and Loeb and Wasteney 's work on the viability of Fundulus(12 ) , one seems on safe ground in assuming that with increasing concentration of acid the amount of salt needed will rise sharply to a maximum and then decline .
It should be noted that all these workers used acid media .
The Time Curves in Acid , Neutral , and Alkaline Media , So far the curves dealt with in this paper have shown the relationship between the nature of the external medium and the final state of a muscle immersed therein .
But the most striking differences in the reactions of an excised muscle towards acid or alkaline media are shown in the curves plotting rate of change of weight in any one medium , i.e. the time curves\#151 ; figs. 3 and 4 .
In dilute acid solutions ( fig. 3 ) the curve of swelling is a smooth logarithmic curve rising to a steady maximum , and is similar to that described by Pascheles ( 15 ) for the swelling of gelatine , and by Masson ( 11 ) for the swelling of cotton fibres .
In stronger acid solutions the curve rises smocthly , and then falls again before reaching equilibrium ( fig. 3 ) .
This rise undoubtedly follows the change of hydrogen ion concentration inside the muscle substance , i.e. , as hydrogen ions diffuse into the muscle from the external medium , swelling takes place .
This reaches a maximum when the Miss D. J. Lloyd# internal*coneentration is equivalent to 0*005 normal , and as this concentration is passed a certain amount of shrinkage follows .
- In distilled water , or in solutions of neutral salts , or in sugar solutions , \#151 ; 7/ 10.000 Af :---07]/ ffa Fio .
3 .
Abscissae = time in hours from beginning of experiment .
Ordinates = weight of muscle expressed in percentage of initial weight .
5 Zlrs Fig. 4 .
Abscissae = time in hours from beginning of experiment .
Ordinates = weight of muscle expressed in percentage of initial weight .
there may or may not be a preliminary gain in weight , but sooner or later the muscle begins to coagulate , the fibres shorten , and the whole muscle loses weight .
This coagulation and loss of weight cannot be prevented by any variation in the tonicity of the solution .
The time-weight curves for sugar solutions have already been published ( 7 ) .
The curves for the chlorides of sodium , lithium , potassium , barium , calcium , in isotonic solutions , are given in fig. 5 .
Following Webster 's precedent ( 26 ) 0*125 molecular solutions of the monovalent salts , and OTO molecular solutions of the divalent salts have been taken as isotonic .
They all show the same changes , but the coagulation appears much sooner in the solutions of the divalent metals , while the initial rise in weight is strongly marked in the potassium , The Relation of Excised Muscle to and Bases .
283 lithium , and ammonium solutions , and fleeting in the calcium and barium solutions .
The behaviour of the muscle in sodium solutions is in strong Fig. 5 .
Abscissae = time in hours from beginning of experiment .
Ordinates = weight of muscle expressed in percentage of initial weight .
contrast to its behaviour in the .presence of any other single salt , and combined with this is the well-known fact that isotonic sodium solutions are far less toxic for excised muscles than solutions of any other single salt .
The behaviour of an excised muscle in 0*125 molecular sodium chloride is mainly determined by its initial state .
It may show a rise in weight , or it may remain unchanged for several hours , but in either case the time-weight curve runs for a considerable time parallel to the X axis .
Two curves for 0*125 molecular sodium chloride are shown in fig. 5 .
It might be noted that the Y-axis in fig. 5 is drawn on a different scale to the Y-axis in the other figures .
The curves given in fig. 5 are taken from actual experimental results .
It should be noted that they represent the mean of measurements which differ from each other somewhat widely .
To turn now to the consideration of the time-weight curves in the case of alkaline solutions\#151 ; in dilute alkalies , the curve first rises , then falls abruptly for a few minutes , then rises again to a maximum .
These curves are shown in fig. 4 for 0*001 normal and 0*002 normal caustic soda .
In dilute alkaline solutions the fall between the two maxima is very clear ; as the alkalinity of the solutions is increased , it gets partially obliterated , till it becomes merely a notch in the curve , and , at 0*1 normal , can no longer be distinguished .
VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. 2 A Miss D. J. Lloyd .
The secondary rise of the curve is already quite clear at a concentration PH = 8 .
In dilute solutions a steady maximum is reached .
In strong solutions ( as in strong acid solutions ) there is a secondary fall , showing slightly at 0'002 normal , and as a violent descent , continuing until the muscle is entirely disintegrated , at OT normal .
This secondary effect of alkali on muscle substance makes the numbers given in figs. 1 and 2 for the maximum swelling less reliable than those given for the acid solutions .
They are the values obtained in 24 hours , and in strong alkalies ( 0'07 \#151 ; OT normal ) the muscles undoubtedly lose still more in weight .
In studying the alkali curves , it is noticeable that , with a little experience , it is quite easy to tell what point on the curve the muscle has attained merely by taking note of its appearance .
The muscle , when freshly excised , is fairly translucent and yellowish in colour .
In the early swelling stages , besides visibly increasing in volume , it turns milky opalescent ; As swelling increases , the milkiness gets less and less , and finally a muscle swollen to its full extent is clear and glassy in appearance .
A muscle that is losing weight always has its fibres contracted , and often retains a yellow tinge .
The history of a muscle hung in alkaline solution can thus be followed by the eye\#151 ; at first it increases in volume and becomes milky white , then it shortens suddenly and becomes yellow and opaque , finally a glassy appearance begins to show at the edges , and the whole muscle again becomes swollen and clear .
These changes are in intimate relation with the state of the muscle as an electrically charged colloidal system .
Evidence has been accumulating for some considerable time that , in the body , the tissue colloids are charged positively , and give an acid reaction .
For instance , Fletcher and Hopkins ( 5 ) find that working muscles contain between 0*2 and 03 per cent , of their total weight of lactic acid , and even in resting muscles they found a persistent minimum of 0'02 per cent. Hardy ( 8 ) has shown that , under^ the influence of an electric current , the colloids of the cell cytoplasm migrate towards the cathode , and it seems a ji^st conclusion , therefore , that they are positively charged .
Bollas-Lee , in his ' Microtomist 's Vade Mecum ' ( 28 ) , describing the technique of staining intra vitam with neutral red , states that tadpoles take up this stain freely , becoming dark red in colour .
How , neutral red is an , indicator that is red in solutions with PH \lt ; 7 , yellow in solutions with Fh )\gt ; 8 , and therefore this observation alone is sufficient to show that the tissues are either neutral or acid , but not alkaline .
Finally , my own results are most easily explained on the hypothesis that the muscle colloids are an acid , or positively charged system .
Consider the muscle situ as a system in equilibrium with an alkaline fluid , the lymph , containing salts .
The Relation of Excised Muscle to Acids , Salts , and Bases .
285 Removed to an acid-water system , the increase of the hydrogen ion concentration and the removal of the salts both act together to increase swelling .
In a neutral system there are several possibilities .
In distilled water , and in hypotonic solutions of sugar , there is an initial swelling of the muscle , due partly to its transference to a medium of lower osmotic pressure and partly to the absence of the normally occurring salts ( see further below ) .
In isotonic sodium chloride or Ringer solution the muscle remains for a time of constant weight .
The special case of the other neutral salts in isotonic solution will also he considered below .
In hypertonic neutral solutions the muscle loses weight from the start .
All neutral solutions , however , have this in common , that , sooner or later , a muscle immersed in any one of them becomes coagulated and loses weight , regardless of the tonicity of the solution .
This must be due to the loss of all free acid in the muscle by diffusion outwards and to the fact that the iso-electric point of the muscle colloids lies near the neutral point , if it is assumed , as has been done throughout this paper , that the iso-electric point coincides with the point of most complete coagulation , and that the degree of coagulation is measured by the amount of symeresis .
In an alkali-water system the muscle also shows an initial swelling just as in a neutral hypotonic system .
But besides water , hydroxyl ions diffuse into the muscle , and so , the acid in the muscle is neutralised .
At this point coagulation of the colloid particles and shortening of the fibres occur simultaneously , but , as more hydroxyl ions diffuse into the muscle , the system becomes negatively charged , and swelling again sets in ( see the curves in fig. A ) .
No attempt will be made in this paper to discuss at any length the meaning of the initial swelling in isotonic solutions of potassium , lithium , and ammonium salts .
This swelling , under the influence of these salts , can be prevented by injuring the muscle by freezing and thawing ( Siebeck , 23 ) , or by saturating the solution used by chloroform .
It is therefore possibly connected with the state of the muscle as a living system .
Hardy has already brought forward evidence to show that , in living blood , the proteins are present as a single large complex ( 7 , Appendix II ) , which breaks down under adverse circumstances ( such as dialysis ) , setting free the globulin .
Possibly , therefore , in living muscle , these same large complex molecules exist , and the first action of the toxic electrolytes is to cause their breakdown , with an accompanying rise in the osmotic pressure .
The coagulating effect of the neutral salts follows later , and is the same in general character as that found in non-living colloid systems , i.e. it is a function of the valency of the coagulating ion .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
The Relation of Gelatine to Acids , Salts , and Rases .
The curve of maximum swelling of excised muscle in acid or alkaline media is the curve of swelling of some substance in the colloidal state .
A search through the literature of colloidal chemistry reveals almost as complete a paucity of systematic data as was found in the more physiological domain of muscular phenomena .
Wo .
Ostwald(15 ) has published curves for the swelling of gelatine in acid and alkali .
These curves agree with the curves for muscle in showing increased swelling of gelatine with increased concentration of acid and alkali up to a maximum , and afterwards decreased swelling .
Ostwald 's curves differ from the muscle curves in three important points : firstly , the maxima for both acid and alkali are at a concentration of about 0025 normal ; secondly , the downward slope of the curves beyond these points is very gradual , and finally there is a minimal swelling for acid at 0'005 normal .
The relation of gelatine to acids and salts has also been studied by Proctor ( 17 and 18 ) .
His curve for the swelling of gelatine in dilute hydrochloric acid corresponds remarkably closely with the curve for muscle .
The maximum for both curves is in the neighbourhood of 0'005 normal acid , and the curves again rise very steeply to this maximum and slope away sharply beyond it .
Proctor explains the swelling of the gelatine on the assumption of the formation of an ionisable salt of the weak diacidic base , gelatine .
He finds that this assumption not only explains the fixation of the hydrogen and chlorine ions by the gelatine , but also explains the swelling of the gelatine on a simple osmotic basis .
If his theory is valid for gelatine , it must , from the similarity of the two curves , also be valid for muscle , and it leads to the assumption that in a muscle immersed in acid solution , there is chemical interaction between the muscle colloids and the acid , leading to the formation of ionisable salts , which , exerting a definite osmotic pressure against the elastic forces of the muscle , cause swelling .
Proctor states that the colloidal cation of his gelatine chloride does not contribute directly to the osmotic pressure .
This view , however , is not in harmony with much work that has been done on the direct determination of the osmotic pressure of gelatine gels , and I am not , at the moment , prepared to follow so far .
Finally , Lillie ( 10 ) has made an extensive series of experiments by direct measurement on the osmotic pressure of gelatine and egg albumen , and has shown:\#151 ; " ( 1 ) The osmotic pressure of colloids is unaffected after the addition of non-electrolytes ( sucrose , dextrose , glycerine , urea ) .
" ( 2 ) Acid and alkali increase the osmotic pressure of gelatine solutions ; in The Relation of Excised Muscle to Acids , Salts , and Bases .
287 general these substances affect the osmotic pressure of gelatine solutions in the same manner as they do the rate of swelling of solid gelatine plates immersed in water .
" ( 3 ) Addition of salts depresses the osmotic pressure of both colloids ; the degree of depression is a function of the nature of both the anion and cation of the salt .
It increases in the order , alkali metals \lt ; alkali earths ( for cations ) and Cl \gt ; plurivalent anions , phosphates ( for anions)/ ' Muscular Swelling Interpreted as an Osmotic Phenomenon .
I have quoted direct from Lillie 's paper because it makes the phenomena of the relations of excised muscles to acids , salts , and bases appear in a clear light .
Evidently , acids and bases raise the osmotic pressure of the muscle colloids , and so water flows in ; salts depress this osmotic pressure and so less water passes into the muscle .
Bechhold ( 3 ) and others have stated that sugar does not antagonise the swelling of muscles under the action of acids and bases ; and this again falls into line with Lillie 's work .
The mechanism by which this osmotic change is brought about follows from Hardy 's work on colloidal solutions : acids combine with the colloids in solution to give ionisable complexes which dissociate in such a way that the large colloidal " pseudion " carries a positive charge , and increasing the hydrogen ion increases the degree of dispersity of the colloid particles , and so raises the osmotic pressure of the system ( 5 , 6 , etc. ) .
The same holds for the colloids charged negatively by the hydroxyl ion , i.e. for colloidal anions .
In the presence of neutral salts , the ionisation of the colloid particles of the muscle is suppressed , they lose their charge and are coagulated .
This again recalls the salt globulins , which show no movement in an electric field and are brought out of solution by simple dilution .
This view harmonises with Proctor 's in ascribing to ionisation the controlling factor in the production of the internal osmotic pressure .
It differs in considering that the colloidal ions exert a definite quantum to the final result , greater or less according to their degree of dispersity .
It has already been recorded in a previous paper that in hypertonic neutral solutions , the loss in weight of an excised muscle is a linear function of the time , and it was suggested that " the linear form of the curve would imply that the loss is due to a change in the state of the muscle , for if it were merely the establishment of an osmotic balance with a fixed effective mass of solute within the muscle the rate would diminish as the effective concentration within the muscle approached that outside it .
" This suggestion that the distribution of the common solvent water between the muscle and the external medium depends partly on the direct osmotic pressure of solutes in Miss D. J. Lloyd .
the medium , and partly on the configuration of the muscle colloids , is confirmed by researches recorded in this paper which show that the excised muscle is a labile system whose configuration depends on ( at least ) two variables : ( 1 ) the hydrogen ion concentration , ( 2 ) the salt concentration .
It should be noticed that in order to explain the swelling and shrinking of muscle on an osmotic basis , there is no need to postulate a semi-permeable membrane at its surface .
Moore and Roaf and Webster ( 14 ) have urged that the so-called " semi-permeability " of a membrane depends more on the properties of the colloid behind the membrane than on the membrane itself , and in the case of muscles it is easy to show that a muscle which has been coagulated in distilled water ( or any other neutral solution ) swells immediately on being put into acid or alkaline solution .
So far the properties of excised muscle have been considered purely as a non-living colloidal system .
There seems little doubt , however , that the same type of change occurs during life .
Rank ( 19 ) , Loeb(ll ) , Fletcher ( 4 ) , and others have shown that the osmotic pressure of muscle rises after fatigue , and the work of Fletcher and Hopkins ( 5 ) on the increased lactic acid content of fatigued muscle leaves little doubt that this increased osmotic pressure is due to the increased hydrogen ion concentration .
Barcroft and Toyojiro Kato , working on dogs ( 2 ) , and Cogan , Back , and Towers ( 1 ) , working on the frog , have shown that fatigued muscles take up water from the body fluids in situ , and this must surely again be due to the acid produced .
Ringer in 1883 stated that cardiac muscle will not contract in an acid medium , and that the heart of the frog , perfused with neutral saline until the contractions cease , can be restored by making the solution alkaline .
Ringer , who also was aware that the contractions in heart muscle caused the production of acid , considered that the alkalinity of the blood preserved the tissues by preventing accumulation of acid ( 22 ) .
It is suggested below that in the case of the skeletal muscles , whose activity is much more irregular than the cardiac , it is also important to keep the acidity high enough .
* Ringer showed for cardiac muscles that loss of contractility does not mean simultaneous death of the tissue .
The same is true for the excised skeletal muscles .
All the changes described in the foregoing paper are reversible in their early stages .
The sterno-cutaneous muscle of the frog , which is swelling in isotonic potassium chloride , can be restored for 15 minutes after loss of contractility , by being placed in isotonic sodium chloride .
The same is true for muscles which are losing weight in isotonic ( 0*1 molecular ) calcium chloride .
These also can be restored to their normal function for about a The Relation of Excised Muscle to Salts , and Bases .
289 quarter of an hour after they cease to respond to an electric stimulus .
As the curves show no break at any moment which might be considered as the death point , it seems justifiable to assume that the osmotic nature of the exchange of water between a muscle and its surrounding medium , which has been shown to depend ( 1 ) on the osmotic pressure of the muscle colloids as determined by their state of configuration , ( 2 ) on the osmotic pressure of the crystalloids in the external medium , applies equally well to living as to dead muscles .
One point of interest arises in this paper with regard to the living muscle : the working muscle is a positively charged system with a hydrogen ion concentration PH \lt ; 5 .
( This follows from the fact that muscles lose weight slightly in a solution with PH = 5 .
) The iso-electric point for muscles is between PH = 5 and PH = 7 .
The reaction of normal blood is PH = 7*35 ( Walpole ) .
There must , therefore , be an electric potential between the muscles and the body fluids , and since the muscle substance is freely permeable to both hydrogen and hydroxyl ions , it seems possible that one of the results of cell oxidation is that by the constant production of carbonic acid in the muscle , this potential is continually maintained .
Summary .
1 .
Acids and alkalies both cause swelling in excised muscle .
The degree of swelling is not directly proportional to the concentration of acid or alkali in the surrounding fluid but has a maximum at 0*005 normal for hydrochloric acid and for caustic soda .
Alkalies first coagulate and then redissolve the muscle substance .
2 .
The chlorides of the alkali and alkaline earth metals all ultimately coagulate the protoplasm of an excised muscle in isotonic solutions .
The bivalent cations show this effect much more rapidly than the monovalent .
Distilled water and sugar solutions also coagulate excised muscles.3 .
The iso-electric point for muscle is between PH = 5 and PH = 7 .
4 .
It is suggested that the swelling and shrinking of muscles both in the body and out is an osmotic phenomenon , and that the configuration of the colloids of the muscle substance is the chief determining factor which fixes the degree of swelling .
Lillie 's demonstration that acids and alkalies raise the osmotic pressure of gelatine , while the neutral salts lower it , is in harmony with this view .
5 .
The osmotic phenomena of muscle can be fully explained without assuming the presence of a semi-permeable membrane round the muscle fibres .
290 The Relation of Excised Muscle to Acids , Salts , and Bases .
/ REFERENCES .
1 .
Back , Cogan and Towers , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 88 , p. 544 ( 1915 ) .
2 .
Barcroft and Kato , * Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 207 , p. 149 ( 1915 ) .
3 .
Bechhold , ' Die Kolloide im Biologie und Medizin , ' Dresden , 1912 .
4 .
Fletcher , ' Joum .
Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , p. 414 ( 1904 ) .
5 .
Fletcher and Hopkins , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 35 , p. 247 ( 1906-7 ) .
6 .
Hardy , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 95 ( 1900 ) .
7 .
Hardy , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 33 , p. 251 ( 1905-6 ) .
8 .
Hardy , * Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 47 , p. 108 ( 1913-14 ) .
9 .
Jordan-Lloyd , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 88 , p. 568 ( 1915 ) .
10 .
R. Lillie , * Am .
Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 20 , p. 127 ( 1907 ) .
11 .
J. Loeb , ' Pfliig .
Arch. , ' vol. 56 , p. 270 ( 1894 ) ; vol. 69 , p. 1 ( 1897 ) ; vol. 71 , p. 457 ( 1898 ) .
12 .
Loeb and Wasteneys , ' Biochem. Zeitschr .
, ' vol. 39 , p. 167 ( 1912 ) .
13 .
Masson , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 230 ( 1904-5 ) .
14 .
Moore , Roaf and Webster , ' Biochem. Journ. , ' vol. 6 , p. 110 ( 1912 ) .
15 .
Wo .
Ostwald , 'Pflug .
Arch. , ' vol. 108 , p. 563 ( 1905 ) ; vol. Ill , p. 581 ( 1906 ) .
16 .
Pascheles , * Pflug .
Arch. , ' vol. 67 , p. 219 ( 1897 ) .
17 .
Proctor , * Kolloidchemische Beihefte , ' vol. 2 , p. 243 ( 1911 ) .
18 .
Proctor , * Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 105 , p. 313 ( 1914 ) .
19 .
Rank , 'Tetanus , ' Leipzig , 1865 .
20 .
Ringer , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 3 , p. 380 ( 1880-2 ) .
21 .
Ringer , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 4 , p. 29 ( 1883-4 ) .
22 .
Ringer , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 14 , p. 125 ( 1893 ) .
23 .
Siebeck , ' Pfliig .
Arch. , ' vol. 150 , p. 316 ( 1913 ) .
24 .
Sorensen , ' C , R. Lab .
Carlsberg , ' vol. 7 , p. 1 ( 1909 ) .
25 .
Walpole , 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' vol. 8 , p. 628 ( 1914 ) .
26 .
Webster , 'Dec .
Public .
Univ. Chicago , ' vol. 10 , p. 105 ( 1902 ) .
27 .
Wood and Hardy , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , p. 38 ( 1909 ) .
28 .
Bollas-Lee , ' The Microtomist 's Yade Mecum , ' 5th Edit .
, London , 1900 .
A Theory of Colour Vision .
By It .
A. Houstoun , M.A. , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
, Lecturer on Physical Optics in the University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Prof. A. Gray , F.R.S. Received April 3 , 1916 .
) [ This Paper is published in 'Proceedings , ' Series A , No. 642 , July 1 , 1916 .
]

