V. " Researches on the Action of Sulphuric Acid upon the Amides and Nitriles , with Remarks on the Conjugate Sulpho-acids .
" By GEORGE B. BUCKTON , Esq. , F.L.S. , F.C.S. , and A. W. HOFMaANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 13 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) Since we had the honour of addressing the Royal Society upon the subject of the behaviour of acetamide and acetonitrile towards sulphuric acid , we have completed our experiments upon the amides and nitriles , and extended our researches to other groups of bodies .
The results of these additional inquiries we now beg to present in the form of a second short summary , the analytical details and the more extended description of the new compounds being given in the complete memoir , which , at the same time , we have the honour of submitting to the Society .
Before proceeding , however , to give an account of our new compounds , it may be desirable to state that several considerations , suggested by the progress of our inquiry , have induced us finally to adopt the name of Disulphometholic acid instead of the provisional term Tetrasulphometbylic acid under which we have described , in our first communication , the new acid generated by the action of sul phuric acid upon acetamide and acetonitrile , ETHYL-SERIES .
Action of Sulphuric lAcid u on Propionitrile .
Considerable dificulty is experienced in prepari'ng this nitrile in a state of purity .
It was finally obtained by acting upon propionamide with anhydrous phosphoric acid .
When three parts by measure of the nitrile are cautiously mixed with two parts of fuming sulphuric acid , and heat is applied , the liquids enter into a sort of ebullition , carbonic acid being copiously evolved ; at the same time a portion of propionic acid passes into the receiver , the amount of which may be lessened by raising the temperature only gradually .
At the close of the operation a tenacious mass is found in the retort , which , when dissolved in water and neutralized with carbonate of barium , furnishes two rather soluble but readily crystallizable salts , very difficult to separate one from the other .
Their isolation may be conveniently effected , by converting them into the corresponding armmoniacal compounds , by precipitating their solution with carbonate of ammonium .
The filtrate yields two substances , one of which crystallizes , while the other is quite uncrystallizable .
The latter substance , when long digested with carbonate of barium , produces crystals of a barium-isalt whose analysis gives numbers leading to the formula C6 ( H14 Ba ) S2 O10 .
This substance is obviously sulphopropionate of barium , the compound next in series to the sulphacetate discovered by M. Melsens .
It is generally deposited from its solution in fine silky crystals , which arrange themselves in spherical groups .
They are very stable , and bear a high temperature without decomposition .
The salt associated with the uncrystallizable sulphopropionate of ammonium crystallizes with ease , either in rectangular prisms or in octohedra .
Similarly converted into a barium-compound , it was found by analysis to contain at 100 ?
C. , C4 ( 14 Ba2 ) S4012+ 2-10 .
It forms regular six-sided plates , which are moderately soluble in water , but insoluble in alcohol and in ether .
It loses two equivalents of water of crystallization between 100 ?
and 170 ?
, but a few degrees above this temperature it is decomposed with blackening , yielding water , sulphurous acid , volatile organic products , and sulphate of barium .
We designate this salt as disulphetholate of barium .
Disulphetholic acid is prepared by precipitating a solution of the barium-salt with sulphuric acid , the excess of which is again removed by digestion with oxide of lead , and subsequent treatment with sulphuretted hydrogen .
It is a crystalline and stable compound , very acid to the taste , and very deliquescent .
With oxide of lead , or with carbonate of silver , it readily forms the respective salts , both of which are crystalline .
After what has been said with reference to the action of sulphuric acid upon acetamide , it is scarcely necessary to remark that the sulphopropionates and disulphetholates may be prepared with equal , or even greater facility from propionamide .
Care , however , should be taken to use the amide in a perfectly dry state , which prevents in great measure the formation of free propionic acid .
PROPYL-SERIES .
Action of Sulphuric Acid upon Butyr amide .
Equal parts by volume of melted butyramide and Nordhausen sulphuric acid evolve much heat when mixed together .
In the reaction two acids are eliminated , showing that the series bears a strict analogy with the deportment exhibited by the preceding group .
As the ammonia-salts of these acids are wholly uncrystallizable , their separation is almost impossible .
The barium-compounds also are scarcely to be obtained of a definite form , so that it is a matter of great difficulty to procure salts of sufficient purity for exact estimation .
Recourse was had to fractional precipitation by alcohol .
The first salt which was deposited formed minute grains , which adhered strongly to the sides of the glass vessel containing the solution .
It gave a percentage of barium which unmistakeably indicated the formula Cs ( IH6 Ba2 ) S2 010 , which is that of sulphobutyrate of barium .
This substance in its reactions closely resembles ( with the exception of its greater solubility in water ) the corresponding body of the ethyl-series .
It burns like tinder , with evolution of sulphurous acid , and leaves a residue of sulphite and sulphate of barium .
The aqueous solution presents a gummy mass on evaporation .
A further addition of alcohol to the mother-liquor of the sulphobutyrate of barium throws down a flocculent precipitate , which is very soluble in water .
It was purified by repeated and partial precipitation with alcohol .
This substance , when dried at a temperature of 165 ?
C. , furnished upon analysis numbers agreeing with the expression 0 , ( H6 Ba2 ) S4 012 , which is that of disulphopropiolate of barium .
PHENYL-SERIES .
Action of Sulphuric Acid upon Benzonitrile .
From the results obtained in the study of the methyl- , ethyl- , and propyl-series , we may fairly infer that all the homologues of other groups will exhibit a similar deportment .
It appeared , however , desirable to extend our researches to a class of bodies which are analogous ( not homologous ) to the preceding series .
Sulphuric acid appears to act with much less energy upon benzonitrile or cyanide of phenyl than upon the foregoing nitriles .
No evolution of gas is observed until the mixture of the two substances is strongly heated , and then so much sulphurous acid is formed from charring of the cyanide that its presence is almost entirely masked .
The digestion was continued for two hours , after which the dark residue was treated in the usual manner for the soluble barium-salts .
That first obtained consisted of sulphobenzoate of barium .
For identification , both the neutral and acid compounds were prepared , the respective formule of which , Cl4 ( H14 Ba2 ) S2 10 , and C14 ( 1-I Ba ) S2 20 , were corroborated by analysis .
An examination of the mother-liquor proved , as we had anticipated , the presence of a more soluble salt .
By rapid evaporation it appears as an amorphous mass , but a drop allowed to dry spontaneously on the stage plate of the microscope exhibits it in the form of minute shuttle-shaped crystals .
The formula of this body , deduced from a sulphurand bariumdetermination , is C12 ( 14 Ba2 ) S4 012 , which characterizes it as disulphobenzolate of barium .
The question naturally suggested itself , whether the same acid could not be prepared directly from the hydrocarbon benzol .
Mitscherlich has already described an acid ( the sulphobenzolic ) in which one equivalent of that hydrocarbon is associated with one equivalent of bibasic sulphuric acid .
We have proved by experiment that sulphobenzolic acid takes up the elements of an additional equivalent when it is submitted to the prolonged action of Nordhausen sulphuric acid , and that , in fact , the union of these two bodies presents the most ready method of procuring disulphobenzolic acid in a state of purity .
The preceding researches establish in two different groups of bodies the existence of a series of bibasic acids containing four equivalents of sulphur , and which , irrespectively of any special view regarding their molecular arrangement , may be represented as formed by the association of the hydrocarbon ( corresponding to marsh-gas ) of the various groups with four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid , Disulphometholic acid ... .
C2 I4 4S03 .
Disulphetholic acid ... ... . .
C4 4803 .
Disulphopropiolic acid ... ... CI HS 4803 .
Disulphobenzolic acid ... ... C12 16 4SO .
An acid of analogous composition exists in the naphthalin-series , disulphonaphtholic acid , C20 Hs 4SO , which was discovered by Berzelius , and subsequently studied by Laurent .
Many of these substances may be actually obtained directly from the hydrocarbons by the action of sulphuric acid .
On the other hand , chemists are well acquainted with the deportment of olefiant gas under the influence of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
The crystalline compound discovered by Magnus , and described by him under the name of sulphate of carbyl , whatever its constitution may be , can be considered as a direct combination of olefiant gas , with four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid , Sulphate of carbyl ... ... C4 H 44SO3 .
It can scarcely be doubted that all the other hydrocarbons , Cn2 Hfl2 , propylene , butylene , amylene , &amp;c. , will furnish homologous substances .
Sulphate of carbyl , when submitted to the action of water , assimilates two equivalents , and is converted into a bibasic acid ( ethionic ) , C4 -I4 4S03 + 2HO= C4 J I6 02 4S03 , which accordingly may be viewed as an association of alcohol with four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
Terms analogous to ethionic acid are sure to be found when the study of the homologues of sulphate of carbyl shall be taken up by chemists .
The production of disulpho-compounds of perfectly similar composition , from substances belonging to such different groups of bodies , as the hydrocarbons homologous and analogous to marsh-gas , ethylene and alcohol , suggested the possibility that the substances in question might be but individual examples illustrating a far more general mode of formation .
It became , in fact , probable that all organic bodies capable of uniting with the elements of two equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid might , under favourable circumstances , be induced to assimilate two additional equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid , and thus furnish other terms belonging to the class of disulpho-compounds .
The only additional class of compounds to which we have as yet successfully extended our labours , is the group of organic bases .
Action of Sulphuric Acid upon Aniline .
The first product which sulphuric acid forms with aniline is simply the sulphate of the base .
A further addition of acid , assisted by heat , dissolves the sulphate , and after a sufficiently long digestion , the whole is converted into sulphanilic acid .
If too high a temperature be employed , the acid becomes very dark in colour ; and indeed there is a limit beyond which carbon is rapidly deposited , accompanied by the evolution of abundance of sulphuric acid .
The process of converting sulphanilic acid into the disulpho-compound is rather tedious .
It may , however , be effected without fail , by treating for several hours the perfectly dry crystalline acid , mixed with strong Nordhausen acid , to the consistence of a paste .
The heat should not exceed that at which sulphurous acid just commences to be evolved .
We employed an air-bath heated from 160 ?
to 170 ?
C. , and the digestion was continued until a portion removed by a glass rod showed no trace of crystallization when cooled or moistened with water .
Treatment with carbonate of barium yielded in this manner a very soluble salt , which furnished a brittle gufn when evaporated .
The new substance was precipitated from its solution by alcohol and dried at 200 ?
C. A determination of the barium and the sulphur led to the expression C12 ( H5 Ba ) N S4 12 , which is the formula of disulphanilate of barium .
This salt is readily attacked by concentrated nitric acid with oxidation of the sulphur .
It blackens when strongly heated on platinum foil , and yields sulphurous acid without inflaming , a deportment in which it differs from sulphanilate of barium , which burns with a bright flame .
When heated in close vessels it forms a crystalline sublimate , which consists of sulphite of aniline .
Disulphanilic acid is prepared by decomposing the lead-salt with hydrosulphuric acid .
It is very soluble in water , and crystallizes with difficulty .
It may be precipitated from a strong aqueous solution by alcohol in the form of white grains .
The precipitation is assisted by the addition of a little ether .
It has a very rough and acid taste .
We have also prepared the silver-salt by saturating the acid with carbonate of silver .
The most ready method of obtaining it in a solid state is by precipitation with alcohol and ether .
The aqueous solution , by concentration , deposits a black powder which makes it very difficult to obtain the crystals colourless .
The formula of disulphanilate of silver is C12 ( HAg2 ) NS O12 .
The potassa-salt is crystalline .
It forms small grains or minute needles , which are insoluble in alcohol .
The researches detailed in the preceding paragraphs may serve to characterize more fully a class of compounds of which only a few terms , isolated and scattered in widely different groups , had been previously observed .
The only disulpho-acids hitherto known , are Berzelius 's and Laurent 's disulphonaphthalic acid , Magnus 's ethionic ( disulphethylic ) acid , and lastly , dithiobenzic acid , recently discovered by M. Kilkenkamp .
To these we now add five new acids , belonging to several of the most important series of compounds:-Disulphometholic acid ... ..C2 H4 S4 012 .
Disulphetholic acid ... ... . .
C4 H6 S4 012 ' Disulphopropiolic acid ... ... CH S4 012 Disulphobenzolic acid ... ... C12 H S4 012 .
Disulphanilic acid. .
1 ... ... ... C I7 N S4 012 .
Our experiments point out , moreover , the universal occurrence , and the general mode of formation of these substances .
All organic molecules , particularly in the nascent state , appear to be capable of assimilating the elements of either two or four equivalents of anhydrous acid .
The formation of the two groups of acids which are thus produced presents a great analogy with the production of the nitro-substitutes generated under the influence of nitric acid .
All these compounds are generated with the elimination of water .
In the action of nitric and sulphuric acid upon benzol , for instance , we have , C12 H6 + HINO6 =C12 H5 NO4 + 2HO Benzol .
Nitrobenzol .
C12 16 + 2HNO( ; =Ci12114 N2 0+ 41-O0 Benzol .
Dinitrobenzol .
Cl2 6+ H2 S2 s -=C12 H S2 0 +2HO Benzol .
Sulphobenzolic acid , C12 I6+ 21H S2 O==Ci2 I6 4 012+4110 Benzol .
Disulphobenzolic acid .
The analogy of these reactions is obvious .
The action of nitric acid upon organic bodies is by no means limited to the production of nitro-compounds corresponding to nitrobenzol and dinitrobenzol ; frequently additional substitutes are formed with elimination of six , eight , and in a few isolated cases , even of ten equivalents of water .
It is possible that analogous sulpho-compounds may exist .
Hitherto , however , no substances have been observed in which the assimilation of sulphuric acid has gone further than in the disulpho-acids .

