XVII .
" On the Curvature of the Indian Arc. " By the Venerable J. H. P-RATT , Archdeacon of Calcutta .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received Sept. 3 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) This communication completes the series of the author 's papers on the subject of the Indian Arc. He commences by recapitulating the chief results of his former calculations , and adverting to the attempt which he made in his former papers to explain the difficulty which those calculations brought to light , namely , that the amplitudes of the arcs from Kaliana to Kalianpur and from Kalianpur to Damargida , determined geodetically , were so little in excess as they proved to be of the same amplitudes determined astronomnically , -a difficulty which he endeavouired to get over by attributing to the Indian Arc a curvature different from that corresponding to the mean meridian of the earth .
In the present communication , introducing the condition that the length of the chord of the arc must be the same in both the ellipses , the local and the mean , drawn through the stations at the extremities of the arc , he demonstrates that no change in the curvature of the arc , within reasonable and indeed within wide limits , can have any appreciable effect on the calculated amplitude .
The author 's conclusions from the whole investigation regarding the Indian Arc are thus summed up:(1 ) Colonel Everest discovered that the astronomical amplitudes of the two portions of the Indian Arc between Kaliana and Kalianpur , and between Kalianpur and Damargida , are , the first less by 5 " 24 , and the second greater by 3`'79 , than the geodetic amplitude calculated with the mean semi-axes and ellipticity of the earth .
( 2 ) The geodetic amplitudes of these two portions of the arc , calculated from the measured lengths and with the mean axes , will be sensibly exact , even should the curvature of the arc differ from that of the mean meridian within reasonable but wide limits-a thing which geology teaches us to be very likely the case .
( 3 ) Hence the geodetic measurements of the survey being without sensible error , as is known by the tests applied , the discrepancy in ( 1 ) can only arise from local attraction affecting the vertical line , and so changing the astronomical amplitudes .
( 4 ) Two great visible causes of disturbance of the vertical by attraction are , the Mountain Mass on the north of India , and the Ocean on the south .
The influence of both of these is felt all over India ; the first producing a northerly deflection , varying from 27 " 98 at Kaliana to a sensible angle ( probably about 3 " , but this the author has not calculated ) at Cape Comorin ; the second producing also a northerly deflection , varying from about 19"t 71 at Cape Comorin to 6"d18 at Kaliaila .
( 5 ) ) The combined effect of these two visible causes is to make the astronomical amplitude of the upper arc 1 3 " 11 too small , and of the lower 3 " 82 also too small .
They are therefore insufficient to account for the discrepancies pointed out by Colonel Everest .
Some other cause must exist tending to increase the upper astronomical amtude by 13"11-5"`24=7 " 87 , and also to increase the lower amplitude by 3"82 + 3`t79=7"61 .
( 6 ) It has been demonstrated that a slight but wide-spread variation in the density of the crust , from that deduced from the fluidtheory , either in excess or defect , such as there is no difficulty in conceiving to exist , is suifficient to account for deflections such as these .
For example : an excess of density amounting only to A1~th part , extending through a circuit of about 120 miles around the mid-point of the whole arc between Kaliana and Damargida ( and therefore not far from Kalianpur ) , and to a depth of about 200 miles , will produce this effect , and make the calculated deflections from the three causes the mountains , the ocean , and this hidden cause below -exactly accord with the observed errors in the astronomical amplitudes .
( 7 ) The resulting total deflections at Kaliana , Kalianpur , and Damargida , arising from the three causes , are 26 " 29 , 21"-05 , and 24 " 84 : these make the two astronomical amplitudes , the one 5"24 smaller , and the other 3 " 79 larger than the geodetic amplitudes , the error brought to light by Colonel Everest .
( 8 ) No error can arise in the mapping of India by using the geodetic measurements .
But the position of any places put into the map thus formed , the latitudes of which are determined from observations of the sun or any other heavenly body , will be wrong by the total amount of the deflection at those places , amounting in the three cases above to as much as half a mile .

