2 .
" On the periodic and non-periodic variations of Temperature at Toronto in Canada from 1841 to 1852 inclusive .
" By Colonel Edward Sabine , R.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President of the Royal Society .
Received 20th Jan. 1853 .
The principal object of this communication is to make known the non-periodic variations of temperature for every day in the twelve years , from 1841 to 1852 inclusive , at Toronto in Canada .
The nonperiodic variations are those differences of the temperature from its mean or normal state which remain after all the known periodical variations are allowed for , and are such as are generally accompanied by peculiarities of wind or of other meteorological circumstances .
Recent investigations have led to the inference that opposite conditions of weather prevail simultaneously in the same parallels of latitude under different meridians , and that in particular Europe and America usually present such an opposition , so that a severe winter here corresponds to a mild one there , and vice versed ; and recent theories of the distribution of heat on the surface of the globe profess to furnish the explanation .
To place the facts on indisputable ground , it is requisite that a comparison should be made of unexceptionable records of the non-periodic variations in Europe and America , continued for a sufficient time to afford a proper basis for inductive generalisation .
Toronto , from its latitude 43ยง 40 ' N. and inland situation , is well suited to supply such a comparison with stations in the middle parts of Europe where similar records have been kept ; and the twelve years embraced by the observations , viz. 1841 to 1852 , have been years of unusual meteorological activity in Europe .
Details are given in the commencement of the paper showing the care bestowed on the examination of the thermometer employed , with a standard divided " 2 I'cchelle arbitraire , " by the method of M. Regnault ; as well as the precautions adopted for its fair exposure , and for its protection from rain and radiation .
The observations were made by the non-commissioned officers of the detachment of the Royal Artillery employed in the duties of the observatory .
The period of twelve years comprises two series , in one of which the thermometer was observed hourly , and in the other less frequently , each observation in the second series receiving however a correction to the mean temperature of the day furnished for every hour and every day of the year by the first series .
The two series , each of six years , are separately discussed ; from the first series equations are derived from the mean monthly temperatures by the method suggested by Bessel ( Astron. Nach .
No. 136 ) , whereby the most probable values of the temperature , on every day and every hour , are computed corresponding to the whole body of the observations .
These the author regards as approximate normal values , and by comparing with them the actual daily temperatures , -which in the first six years are the means on each day of twenty-four equidistant observations , and in the second six years the means of all the observations made on each day , each observation having been corrected for the hour in the manner described , the non-periodic variations for every day in the year are obtained and are given in a table .
From the approximate normal temperatures the author has represented in a Plate the phenomena of the temperature at Toronto , according to a method which , if applied to the different meteorological elements and in different localities , might , he thinks , materially facilitate their intercomparison .
This method , in which three variables are represented , one being dependent on the other two , is essentially the same .
that has been long used in magnetic maps , and in the ordinary isothermal maps ; from which latter however it differs in this respect , that , whereas in the ordinary isothermal maps the two variables on which the variation of temperature is dependent are the geographical latitude and longitude , in the present case the two variables are the hour of the day and the day of the year .
The variation of temperature is here referred therefore to time and not to space ; a distinction which the author proposes to convey by employing the term Chrono-Isothermals , as applicable to lines of this description .
From the delineation in the Plate , and from the tables contained in the paper , many characteristic and some peculiar features of the climate and meteorology of the part of the North American Continent in which Toronto is situated , are readily perceivable .
' Several instances are pointed out ; amongst these may be noticed the peculiar anomaly of the North American winter , which is very conspicuous in the Plate ; and the absolute as well as relative variability of the tem.perature at different seasons of the year , exhibited by means of a numerical index analogous to the probable error of the arithmetical mean of a number of partial results , and deduced in a similar manner from the differences of individual years , months , and days , from their mean values : whence it appears , in respect to the annual temperature , for example , that in any particular year there is an equal probability that its mean temperature will fall within the limits of 43 ?
'6 and 44 ?
'9 , as that it will exceed those limits on either side .
Finally , the author has shown the " Thermic Anomaly " ( as it has been recently termed ) of the monthly and annual temperatures at Toronto by comparison with the normal temperatures computed by Dove ( Verbreitung der Warm , 1852 ) , for the parallel of 43ยง 401 N. from 36 equidistant points on the parallel ; from which comparison it appears that after allowance has been made for the elevation above the sea ( 342 feet ) , every month of the year is colder than the normal temperature of the same month in the same parallel ; that the thermic anomaly reaches its extreme in February , when it exceeds 10 ?
of Fahrenheit ; and that on the average of the whole year it is little less than 6 ? .

