Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Seeds .
361 " On the Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on the Germinative Power of Seeds .
" By Sir William Thiselton-Dyer , K.C.M.G. , C.I.E. , F.R.S. , Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens , Kew .
Received September 28 , 1899 .
The ' Comptes Rendus ' for August 28 ( p. 434 ) contains a communication from Professor Dewar to M. Henri Moissan , " relative a la solidification de l'hydrogene .
" It concludes with the following sentence , which may be easily overlooked:\#151 ; " Des grains refroidies dans de l'hydrog\amp ; no liquid conservent tout la propriety de germer " This is the first announcement of an interesting experiment in which Professor Dewar did me the honour to ask me to assist him .
He has further suggested to me to put on record the facts , as far as they came under my observation , and any physiological conclusions to which they seem to point .
With this suggestion I have no alternative but to comply .
Botanists will naturally expect some more detailed account than is contained in the brief announcement which I have quoted .
But as my share in the research has been of the smallest , I should have much preferred that Professor Dewar should have given the result of the whole investigation himself .
When Professor Dewar first suggested the experiment to me , he pointed out that it would be a costly one , that it would only be possible to operate on very small quantities of seeds , and that the number of kinds must also be few .
The dozen seeds experimented upon by Messrs. Brown and Escombe , which were submitted to the temperature of liquid air , were apparently selected as belonging to different natural families , and also in some degree as to their composition.* My choice was much more restricted .
I took two out of their list for the sake of comparison : Barley and vegetable marrow .
I added wheat , which had more than once been made the subject of experiment .
This gave me two farinaceous seeds and one oily one .
I then took shape and hulk into account .
Wheat and barley are roughly ellipsoidal and medium in size .
The vegetable marrow is relatively large but flattened .
I therefore added another oily seed , mustard , which is small and spherical .
I followed Messrs. Browne and Escombe in taking a pea , which is also spherical in shape but nitrogenous in composition .
Finally I sought a very minute seed , and pitched upon musk .
The list then ultimately stood :\#151 ; .
* *Eoy .
Soc. Proo./ vol. 62 , p. 161 .
-362 Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer .
On Influence of Brassica alba .
Pisum sativum .
Cucurbita Pepo .
Mimulusmoschatus .
Triticum sativum .
' Hordeum The next point seemed to be to eliminate the source of error which might arise from defective germinative power .
I therefore communicated the list to Messrs. Sutton and Sons , of Reading , and asked their assistance .
With their invariable kindness in any scientific enquiry , they willingly complied , and sent the samples required with the following report:\#151 ; " We now have pleasure in sending a packet of each of the seeds you name .
They are all of last year 's growth , and of good germb nation .
" For your information we append the germinations arrived at by our tests made in March last of the various parcels from which these samples are taken .
" We have no doubt that each grain of wheat is a germinating seed , as specially fine seeds have been picked out .
" In the case of musk a good growth was obtained , but the germination was not counted .
" Germinations:\#151 ; Mustard ' Bountiful ' peas ... .
100 Vegetable marrow ... .
96 Musk ... .
Good .
Wheat ... .
96 J5 Barley ... ... .
100 .
I forwarded the samples ( which were small ) to Professor Dewar , and suggested that they should be each divided into two portions , one for a control experiment under ordinary conditions , the other to be returned to me after being subjected to cooling .
Owing to some misunderstanding , this was not done ; but , as will be seen in the result , the omission proved immaterial .
The seeds , it should be stated , were simply air-dried : they were ordinary commercial samples , and no attempt was made to further desiccate them .
I pointed out to Professor Dewar the advisability of exposing the seeds to extreme changes of temperature as gradually as possible , a precaution which Messrs. Brown and Escombe carefully observed.* He promised " to consider what can .
be done to avoid any disaster from this cause .
" * Loc .
cit. , p. 161 .
the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Seeds .
363 On July 21 lie wrote to me:\#151 ; " In spite of the weather I have -carried out my promise , and cooled some seeds in liquid hydrogen for half an hour .
I had to seal them up in a glass tube , cool first in liquid air , and then transfer to the hydrogen .
They have , therefore , been cooled to -250'C .
, or -252'C .
, while being in a vacuum { seeing the air left had no appreciable tension ) .
The seeds , in other words , have been transferred to a condition resembling that of moving through space .
Another set of the seeds have been cooled only in liquid air for comparison .
" On July 22 he added , on returning the seeds :\#151 ; " There can be no doubt about the seeds being cooled , as they were in the hydrogen for more than an hour .
In fact I used nearly 600 c.c. of liquid hydrogen .
" The seeds came to me in the small packets of tinfoil in which they had been placed in the tube .
On opening these it was observed that the seeds were as fresh and bright as before being subjected to the treatment .
There was not the slightest discoloration observable in the green tint of the peas .
This practically disposed of the only anxiety which Professor Dewar felt as to the success of the experiment , and expressed to me on July 25 :\#151 ; " My own impression is that unless the sudden vacuum caused by the liquid hydrogen cooling has produced physical rupture of the seeds , they will germinate as usual .
If they survive this awful strain , then I believe no increase of the time of cooling could produce any effect other than results from one hour 's exposure to such severe cold .
" The seeds were sown in a cool greenhouse , without heat , on July 27 .
On August 1 they had all germinated .
In the case of the mustard , 136 young plants were produced from 155 seeds ; the remainder had , however , germinated , but the seedlings had damped off .
One of the packets of wheat , for some reason , germinated slightly more slowly than the rest .
On August 5 , I received a further packet of the seeds ( the musk excepted ) indiscriminately mixed .
Professor Dewar wrote the same date :\#151 ; " I have sent you seeds to-day which , if the treatment with cold can kill , ought to be dead .
They have been immersed in liquid hydrogen for upwards of six hours , and no attempt was made to graduate the cooling .
They were placed in the vacuum vessel into which the liquid hydrogen could drop from the apparatus , and had to take their chance .
The seeds have been soaked in liquid hydrogen , and in this respect differ from the last that were cooled in a vacuum from being sealed in a glass tube .
" In this instance again the seeds did not show the smallest visible trace of the ordeal to which they had been subjected .
They were sorted out and immediately sown , under the same conditions as before .
By August 9 the seeds had all germinated without exception .
I com- 364 Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer .
On the , Influence of municated the result to Professor Dewar , and he informed me , August 15 :\#151 ; " The temperature Fahrenheit to which the seeds were cooled was - 453 ' F. below melting ice .
" These are the details of the experiment .
As it is not likely to be often repeated , I have thought it worth while tQ place them on record as precisely as possible .
The first question that suggests itself is , what evidence we have for believing that the seeds have actually been brought to the almost inconceivable temperature with which they were surrounded .
That they were so brought , Professor Dewar himself has not a shadow of doubt .
That substances at widely extreme temperatures can remain in juxtaposition at least for some time , and still maintain them , is illustrated by a striking experiment shown by Professor Dewar at the Royal Institution on April 1 , 1898 .
Liquid air poured into a large silver basin heated to redness , remained apparently as quiescent at this high temperature as in cooler vessels , and maintained a spheroidal condition .
This is well understood .
But the fact remains that liquid air with a temperature of about - 190 ' C. was contained in a vessel which had a temperature of 800 ' C. , the difference in temperature between the two being 1000 ' C. If we turn for a moment to the effect of heat on living structure , we know that a temperature of 75 ' C. is fatal to all protoplasm , because at that temperature its proteids are coagulated .
Yet there is good evidence for the fact , that seeds have been exposed for prolonged periods to a temperature above 100 ' C. , and yet have subsequently germinated .
It may be taken as absolutely certain , that in this case that temperature never reached the embryo , but must have been intercepted by the imperfect conducting power of the seed-coats .
Cohn again has found that the spores of Bacillus subtilis survive prolonged boiling , * and a similar observation applies .
It is probable that plant structures are deficient in thermal transparency , and they are notoriously indifferent conductors .
Nevertheless it is difficult to believe that in the case of such small bodies as seeds , their being brought to the temperature with which they are surrounded can be more than a question of time .
That the thermal opacity of at least the seed-coats , may be really considerable is not , however , impossible , even at low temperatures .
The following remarks by Professor Dewar have an obvious bearing on this point:\#151 ; " Pictet , after an elaborate investigation , concluded that below a certain temperature , all substances had practically the same thermal transparency , and that a non-conducting body became ineffective at low temperatures in shielding a vessel from the influx of heat .
Experiments , however , prove that such is not the case , the transference * See Tine 's i Physiology of Plants/ p. 283 , the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Seeds .
365 of heat observed by Pictet appearing to be due , not so much to the materials themselves , as to the air contained in their interstices .
Good exhaustion in the ordinary vacuum vessels used in low temperature work , reduces the influx of heat to one-fifth of what is conveyed when the annular space of such double-walled vessels is filled with ATP.*** It is to be noticed that in Professor Dewar 's first experiment , the seeds were practically in a vacuum .
It is obvious from what has been quoted above , that this would help them to retain their heat .
Any hesitation in accepting the results of the experiment on this ground is however swept away by the second experiment in which the seeds with absolutely no protection at all , were actually soaked in liquid hydrogen for six hours .
The extremity of caution can hardly resist the conclusion that they must have been brought to the same temperature .
Professor Dewar finds " that silica , charcoal , lampblack , and oxide of bismuth , all increase the insulation to four , five and six times that of the empty vacuum space .
" It might possibly be worth while to try how far a packing of small air-dry seeds would compare , say with charcoal .
And this would in some degree be a measure of the thermal transparency of seed structures .
Professor Dewar suggested to me that I should supplement this statement by some remarks on the physiological bearing of the experiment .
This has already been discussed by Messrs. Brown and Escombe , and there is perhaps little of moment to add to their conclusions .
The real interest of the whole investigation obviously lies in the question how far it modifies our conceptions of the nature and properties of living matter .
Protoplasm , whatever its source , has physical properties and an ultimate chemical composition which are practically uniform .
This uniformity , however , overlies a potential diversity which is not to be measured .
Such diversity cannot be accounted for by any purely physical conceptions , as physical conceptions are understood .
We not merely know the ultimate constitution of protoplasm , but we also know a good deal about its proximate constitution .
Yet the properties of living protoplasm are very far removed from the mere sum of those of its constituents , and no light can be derived with respect to them in this direction .
And what we know about the constituent bodies themselves is at present not a little obscure .
They belong , as it were , almost to the fringe of possible chemistry and almost elude the methods of chemical research .
But they , complex as they are , are not themselves protoplasm .
Their cumbrous molecules are built up and broken down by ordinary chemical processes .
They * " On Liquid Air as an Analytic Agent , " ' Roy .
Inst. , ' Apr. 1 .
1898 , pp. 7 and 8 .
VOL. LXV .
2 E 366 Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer .
the Influence are not in themselves , in any intelligible sense , living though essential to the exhibition of vital phenomena .
There our analysis of living matter by physical methods for the present stops .
But we are justified in pushing , at any rate , semiphysical conceptions as far as we dare .
We conceive , therefore , the physical constituent molecules of protoplasm as aggregated into larger molecules which , as they are unlike anything we know as purely physical , we call physiological.* Of the properties of such molecules we have some faint conceptions .
The first is their instability .
They are kinetic ; " living substance is continually breaking down into simpler bodies , with a setting free of energy ; on the other hand living substance is continually building itself up , embodying energy into itself , and so replenishing its store of energy .
" f This kinetic condition is essentially life ; when it ceases , we have hitherto believed that the constituents of protoplasm come under the sway of purely inorganic conditions .
If we pause for a moment to attempt a quasi-mechanical explanation of the more developed phenomena of living organisms , such for example as are included under heredity , we are led to suppose that the physiological molecules may themselves be grouped into larger aggregates .
And each stage of aggregation introduces us into a new order of phenomena .
All that we can say is , that beyond the first stage the properties which are characteristic of higher molecular aggre-grates , are ultra-physical , taking physical in its ordinary signification .
That does not imply , however , that physical conditions are ever in abeyance .
Each stage of aggregation is conditioned by every one that precedes it .
In this sense life rests fond on a physical basis .
A continuous kinetic condition appears to be one distinctive property of physiological molecules .
This not merely manifests itself in continuous chemical activity , but under appropriate conditions in actual visible motion .
And it is to be remarked of the former , that though chemical in kind , it is undoubtedly ultra-chemical as chemistry is understood in the laboratory .
A further characteristic of the physiological molecule is that it possesses the power of breaking up chemical combinations and reuniting their constituents in a way which absolutely eludes the methods available to the chemist , and entirely outstrides the pace at which he can proceed .
There is the same kind of difference between the two methods as there is between arithmetic and the calculus in the solution of a mathematical problem .
The question then is , how far the effects of Professor Dewar s experiments and of those who have preceded him in the same field , requiie us to modify our conception of the physiological molecule .
Are we * Identical with Foster 's " scmacula , " ' Text-bookof Physiology , ' Part I , 5th ed. , p. 6 .
t Foster , loc. cit.y p. 41 .
the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Seeds .
obliged to admit with Professor C. de Candolle and Messrs. Brown and Escombe that it may descend to a purely static condition ?
This is really bound up with another question .
The kinetic condition depends on*the constant liberation of energy by chemical change .
Of this the most important is that due to oxidation .
But we now-know that this is not the only source of energy in living matter , or in all cases the indispensable one .
The late Dr. Romanes showed that neither a high vacuum nor subsequent exposure for twelve months to absolutely indifferent gases , such as hydrogen or nitrogen , or even poisonous ones such as hydrogen sulphide , had any effect on the ger-minative power of seeds .
Professor Pfeffer has , however , informed me in conversation that an injurious effect is ultimately produced .
Vital processes have their optimum point as regards temperature .
Their superior limit for the reason already pointed out is tolerably sharp : but the inferior is by no means equally so .
According to Boussingault the decomposition of carbon dioxide by green plants may take place nearly at 0 ' C * Below the optimum there is then some evidence of a " slowing down .
" While some processes reach their limit , can we assume that all do ?
The question would be peremptorily answered for us by those who assert that all chemical action is in abeyance at such temperatures as I am discussing .
Photographic action still takes place at the temperature of liquid air , though this may be due to phosphorescence .
But a jet of hydrogen will burn in it .
Messrs. Brown and Escombe sum up the two methods of explaining what has been called " dormant vitality " with sufficient accuracy m their paper .
According to the one view , metabolic and its resultant kinetic activity is " slowed down " indefinitely .
In such a case as now-described , it might be said that this takes place along an asymptotic curve , continually approaching but never becoming equal to zero .
According to the other , protoplasm passes absolutely from the kinetic to the static condition .
Its locked-up energy becomes purely potential , and Professor C. de Candolle has not hesitated under these circumstances , to compare it to an explosive .
^ _ It has been pointed out that such a conclusion is absolutely m conflict with Mr. Herbert Spencer 's well-known definition of life .
But it appears to me that that definition was only intended to apply to higher stages of the aggregation of living matter than that of the physiological molecule on which I have endeavoured to fix the discussion .
The question seems to me to be simply whether it is admissible to regard that as capable of being brought to an absolutely static condition .
, Conceive two such molecules , one known to be living , but static , and the other dead , and both to be maintained in a condition in which * Sachs , 4 Tqxt-book , ' 2nd ed. , p. 729 .
Mr. W. Edmunds .
they are not immediately susceptible to chemical change .
What is the criterion of life ?
There is none .
It seems to me then that the question I have propounded does not admit of any positive answer in the present state of our knowledge .
* A problem , perhaps somewhat scholastic , which once vexed the souls of biologists was Whether life was the cause of organisation or organisation of life .
What is to be our answer if our starting point is no more than a possible " explosive " 1 " Effects of Thyroid Feeding on Monkeys .
" By Walter Edmunds .
Communicated by Professor J. Bose Bradford , F.R.S. Received September 28 , 1899 .
( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) The experiments were made altogether on nine monkeys ; from them , however , it would be safer to exclude three : two because pathological conditions were found in their lungs after death , and one because the animal died in so short a time ( seven days ) after the commencement of the treatment .
There remain then six experiments for consideration .
The thyroid preparations administered were either a powder made according to the directions of Mr. Edmund White , or thyrocolloid prepared by the method of Dr. Hutchison .
The doses given were large and corresponded to from one-half to three sheep 's thyroids ( both lobes ) to a monkey daily .
Marked effects were produced by this treatment : the eyes became abnormally prominent ; the monkeys lost flesh , became weak , and eventually died .
The symptoms produced may be tabulated as follows : ( 1 ) Proptosis , ( 2 ) dilatation of pupils , ( 3 ) widening of palpebral fissures , ( 4 ) erection of hairs on head , ( 5 ) hair falling out in patches from various parts of the body , ( 6 ) paralysis of one or more limbs , ( 7 ) emaciation and muscular weakness , ( 8 ) death from asthenia .
With respect to these symptoms , proptosis , dilatation of pupil , widening of the palpebral fissure and erection of the hairs on the head are effects which are produced by the stimulation of the cervical sympathetic .
As the chief object of these experiments was to determine as to exophthalmos , sketches were made of the monkeys before commencing treatment and also after ; eye changes occurred in all the six monkeys , and of four of them sketches exist showing these changes ; in two it was not practicable to obtain the second sketches , but there was no doubt about the eye changes in these also .

