On a Remarkable Pharetronid Sponge from Christmas Island .
By R. Kirkpatrick .
( Communicated by S. F. Harmer , F.R.S. Received August 16 , \#151 ; Read November 3 , 1910 .
) ( Printed by permission of the Trustees of the British Museum .
) ( Plates 10 and 11 .
) The foundation of our knowledge of the Pharetron sponges was laid by Zittel in 1879 ( 9 , p. 11 ) .
He found , when classifying the fossil sponges , that after the Dictyonines , Lithistids , Tetractinellids , and Monaxonellids had been sorted out , there still remained numerous specimens , mainly calcareous , and ranging from the Devonian to the Cretaceous formations , in which the skeleton was formed of a network of anastomosing calcareous fibres with a very finely fibrous structure .
In 1872 Haeckel ( 3a , vol. 1 , p. 341 ) had declared that no fossil sponges belonging to the order of Calcisponges had been found , nor were ever likely to be , judging from the delicate texture of known Calcisponges .
At first Zittel regarded the fossil " Calcispongia fibrosa " or " Fibrous sponges " as members of a wholly extinct order , in no way related to that of the true Calcispongise .
Some regarded the fibrous sponges as fossil horny sponges , others as altered siliceous sponges , others again as corals .
Zittel found , however , in the course of his investigations , that the fibrous markings in the fibres were due to the presence of uniaxial or three- or four-rayed spicules .
This discovery led him to regard the fibrous sponges from a wholly new point of view , viz. , as true Calcareous Sponges .
As the fossil Calcarea known at that time were , with one exception , apparently very different from the recent sponges belonging to Haeckel 's three families ( Ascones , Sycones , Leucones ) , and as they seemed to be a more or less homogeneous group , Zittel included them in a new family , the Pharetrones.* His conclusions were at first disputed , and it was thought that the spicules composing the fibres were originally siliceous bodies , which had undergone calcification in the course of becoming fossilised .
In 1882 Hind ( 4 , p. 185 ) described several very well preserved Pharetrones , in which not only were the spicules visible in the fibres , but also separate three- and four-rayed spicules and " tuning-forks " could be distinguished m * ( fiaperpa , a quiver , from the fancied resemblance of the Pharetron fibre to a quiverful Remarkable Pharetronid Sponge from Christmas Island .
125 a layer on the surface of the sponge .
All doubts as to Zittel 's discovery were now set at rest .
Neither Zittel nor Hind attempted to arrange the numerous genera of Pharetrones into sub-groups , but described the external form , the canal system , the size , shape , and structure of the fibres , and , wherever possible , the spicules composing them .
The spicules which make up the so-called " Pharetron fibre " are closely packed , and arranged more or less parallel to each other and to the long axis of the fibre .
The spicules may be rod-shaped , or nearly linear three-rayed forms , or large centrally situated three- or four-rayed forms surrounded by slender rods or triradiates .
The composition of the Pharetron fibre has been the subject of much discussion .
Dunikowski ( 3 , p. 299 ) and Eauff ( 7 , p. 204 ) considered that the spicules were , in the living sponge , simply in apposition and not cemented together , and that the present fused vitreous condition of the fibres has resulted from fossilisation .
Steinmann ( 8 , p. Ill ) , on the other hand , considers that the spicules were joined together by a cement formed by the living sponge .
Dunikowski regarded the Pharetrones simply as a subfamily of Haeckel 's family of Leucones .
Eauff , who thought that Dunikowski had gone too far in so doing , retained the family Phare tronidse , on account of the spicules being arranged into fibres , the spicules of the Leucones not being so arranged .
In 1892 ( 1 , p. 143 ) and 1898 ( 2 , p. 15 ) Doderlein described a remarkable recent stony calcareous sponge { Petrostroma schulzei ) from Japan .
The main skeleton was constructed of large four-rayed spicules cemented together so as to form a firm solid meshwork , the spicules in the older parts being more or less completely surrounded with calcareous cement ; also there was a dermal layer of loose three- and four-rayed spicules and separate small bundles or " fibres " of " tuning-forks .
" Doderlein placed Petrostroma in a new group , the Lithones .
In 1893 Eauff ( 7 , p. 204 ) classified all the Calcarea , fossil and recent , into two orders , Dialytina , with separate spicules , and Lithonina ( including only Petrostroma schulzei , Dod .
) , with spicules joined by zygosis into a solid framework ( like the desmas of Lithistida ) .
It was not known at the time that the spicules of Petrostroma were joined together by cement , as was explained by Doderlein ( 2 , p. 15 ) in his second communication on that genus .
Eauff placed the Pharetronidse next to the Leuconidse .
Whether Eauffs division of Calcarea into two groups , viz. , one with separate spicules and one with zygosed spicules , could have been retained or not , it is now needless to enquire ; but it could hardly be maintained that the Calcarea should be divided into two orders , viz. , one without cemented VOL. lxxxiii.\#151 ; B. L 126 Mr. R. Kirkpatrick .
On a Remarkable [ Aug. 16 , spicules , and the other with cemented spicules .
Among siliceous sponges the mere presence or absence of cement ( spongin ) is not of much importance .
In Halichondriawe may find separate scattered spicules , in they are often joined into a network cemented at the nodes with spongin , the strands being formed either of one spicule or of a bundle ; in Chalina , the bundles of spicules are wholly enveloped in spongin , and in certain horny sponges derived from Chalininee the spicules have gone , and a network of spongin fibres alone remains .
So in Calcarea , the spicules are separate and .
irregularly arranged in the parenchyma in Leucandra ; in the spicules of the main skeleton are joined chiefly at the ends ; in and Minchinella the calcareous cement in the older parts of the sponge completely envelopes the spicules , and in the sponge described below a network of cement alone remains .
In 1900 Minchin ( 6 , p. 110 ) included the Pharetronidee as one of the five families of the Heterocoela , characterised by the possession of tuning-fork spicules ; and divided it into two sub-families , viz. , ( i ) Dialytinee , Kauff , with uncemented spicules , ( ii ) Lithoninse , Doderlein , with body-spicules united by cement into a rigid framework .
Doubtless some of the genera placed among the Dialytinee will be found to belong to the Lithoninee , and possibly others to the Sycettidee and Grantidee of Dendy .
Steinmann 's classification ( 8 , p. 112 ) is nearly the same as Minchin 's ; for he divides the Pharetrones into ( i ) Lithonina , and ( ii ) a group including Inozoa ( Dialytina pars ) , massive sponges with leuconoid canal-system , and Sphinctozoa , moniliform sponges with syconoid canal-system ; but Steinmann could not employ the term Dialytinee , for he regards the Pharetron fibre as a bundle of cemented spicules .
The classification used in this paper is that of Minchin , with an additional new sub-family .
The specimens about to be described were obtained by Dr. C. W. Andrews during his second visit to Christmas Island .
On one occasion , the steamer which plies between Singapore and the island got its anchor fixed among the rocks in 46 fathoms off the shore of the latter place .
After tugging for a long time with full steam on , the ship at last got free .
The anchor brought away a mass of rock on which were found four specimens of the new sponge .
The specimens were detached from the rock a little time after capture , and put into methylated spirit .
The sponges were found to belong to a new genus and species of Pharetron idee , which family now includes six recent species .
The new species will certainly prove to be of very great interest both to the student of recent sponges and to the palaeontologist , for not only is the rigid main 1910 .
] PharetronidSponge from Christmas Island .
skeletal network entirely devoid of spicules , but the surface of the sponge is covered with a dermal armour of large calcareous scales .
I propose to name the genus and species , f and to place them in a new sub-family Murrayoninae below and next to the Lithoninae .
Description of Murrayona phanolepis , gen .
et nov .
The specimens are in the form of small pear-shaped or massive stony nodules , either sessile or with a very short thick stem , and are attached by a flat expanded base to the rock .
Two of the specimens are complete ( Plate 10 , figs. 3 , 3a ) , and the other two ( Plate 10 , figs. 1 , 2 ) macerated out and devoid of both a dermal layer and of soft tissues .
The largest is about the size of a small Barcelona nut ( Plate 10 , fig. 2 ) .
The best preserved specimen , A , has been kept entire , and the second complete specimen used up for sections of soft tissues and skeleton .
Specimen A ( Plate 10 , figs. 3 , 3a , 3b ) is in the form of a minute , pearshaped nodule , 8 mm. high and 7 mm. broad , with a very short thick stem 1 mm. high and 2 mm. in diameter , expanding below into a flattened disc of attachment .
The colour is pale yellow , and the surface glistening .
Under a lens an areolated pattern , formed by imbricating scales , can be seen .
A little to one side of the summit is a small oscule about 0'4 mm. in diameter , and above the middle of the opposite aspect is an equatorial groove ( figs. 3a , 3b ) extending a little more than half-way round the sponge .
Besides the oscule and pores of this poral groove there are no other openings into the sponge , the rest of the surface being covered with an impenetrable coat of scales ( fig. 3b ) .
The edges of the scales are free , that is to say there is no continuous membrane passing from edge to edge .
Beneath the semi-translucent layer of scales can be seen , under a low power , the more or less parallel edges of the surface-lamellae of the main skeletal framework , which form supporting beams to the roof of scales ; and here and there between the scales and main skeleton very minute triradiate and tuning-fork spicules are visible .
The poral groove shows a network of small meshes formed by bundles of triradiates .
The canal-system belongs to the leuconoid type .
The pores are limited to a groove situated on one side of the sponge about midway between the summit and base ( Plate 10 , fig. 3b ) .
The groove , which is about 8 mm. long , * In honour of Sir John Murray , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , who has made a very generous donation towards the expenses of a small dredging expedition to Christmas Island .
+ \lt ; t\gt ; avoi , bright , glistening ; Xenls , scale .
L 2 Mr. E. Kirkpatrick .
On a Remarkable [ Aug. 16 , 1 mm. deep , and 2 mm. broad , is divided into two nearly equal parts by a narrow vertical band of scales .
The rounded or polygonal meshes of the network of triradiates are about 0'2 mm. in diameter , and one pore is contained in each mesh ( Plate 10 , fig. 8 ) .
The pores lead into sub-dermal spaces , which either abut directly on to masses of flagellated chambers filling in the surface-meshes of the main skeletal network just below the pore-area ( Plate 10 , fig. 5 ) , or are continued into canals passing into the sponge .
The flagellated chambers are oval or spheroidal , and of large size , being about 65 x 50 / a in long and short diameters .
Minute prosopyles were visible in some instances , also a circular apopyle , about 20 in diameter .
The chambers line the walls of tubular anastomosing canals , occupying the spaces of the main skeleton , just as in Kirkp .
( Plate 11 , fig. 13 ) .
The exhalant canals pass up into the floor and walls of the single terminal exhalant canal or cloaca , which opens by the oscule .
The cloaca is from 1 to 2 mm. deep .
The structure of the collar-cells and of the other soft tissues was not to be made out clearly , owing to the sponges not having been properly fixed at the moment of capture , and as there is some prospect of getting fresh material suitably preserved , no attempt has been made to describe the cell-structure .
The Skeleton .
The skeleton will be described under three heads , viz. : ( 1 ) the main body-skeleton ; ( 2 ) the poral and sub-dermal spicules ; and ( 3 ) the dermal scales .
The main skeletal framework has a structure wholly unique in sponges .
It is constructed of a strong network of solid calcareous fibres , entirely devoid of spicules , either in the axis of the fibres or on the surfaces of the same .
The strands of this remarkable network vary greatly in shape and size , but they are mostly laminate , i.e.they are thin in proportion to their breadth .
An average-sized strand measured 375 fxin length , 150 fx in breadth , and 45 / / .
in thickness , and the oval mesh which it bounded was 375 long and 150 broad ; but the meshes and strands may be considerably larger , viz. , up to 500 / x long .
Usually , the meshes are longer in the vertical plane of the sponge than in the horizontal ( Plate 10 , figs. 4 , 7 , 9 ) .
At the surface of the body the skeleton tends to form longitudinal flanges with free edges which slightly overlap , and which support the dermal skeleton .
The strands show a laminate construction , as if they had been laid down 1910 .
] PharetronidSponge from Christmas Island .
in layer upon layer of flakes , and here and there sutural lines can be seen between masses of flakes .
Even under a low power , the microscopic \#171 ; structure is seen to be coarsely fibrillar ( Plate 11 , fig. 16 ) , the fibrilke radiating usually in a fan-like manner .
Sometimes the flakes are circular or long oval in shape , with the fibrilloe radiating out all round , and more or less in one plane .
The fibrillae under a high power show conical projecting ends , and are separate and distinct for a little distance below the surface ( Plate 11 , figs. 14 , 15 ) .
In two places in the ground-down sections of a whole specimen , an axial spicule appeared to be present in the strands , but under higher powers the appearance was seen to be due to interior flakes of elongated shape with the fibrillse arranged on each side of a smooth central raphe .
If I had found merely some relic of a spicule\#151 ; but I failed to do so after a most careful search\#151 ; I would still have regarded the skeleton as a new type of construction .
The spicules are all triradiate , but of different shapes , viz.:\#151 ; ( a ) Equiangular , equal-rayed or nearly equal-rayed , pyramidal , that is , with the ends resting on a plane different from the meeting-point of the rays .
The rays are 55 / a long , and 10 / a thick at the base , with blunt or rounded ends .
These spicules are mostly found in the poral area , where they form a polygonal network ( Plate 11 , figs. 17 , 18 ) , but they also occur in the layer beneath the dermal scales .
( b ) Nearly sagittal , and irregular triradiates with unequal rays and angles ( Plate 11 , figs. 19 , 23 , 24 ) .
Plate 11 , fig. 19 , shows a spicule with rays 130 , 98 , and 65 / a in length , by 10 / la thick .
Plate 11 , fig. 23 , shows a form transitional between an ordinary triradiate and a tuning-fork .
( c ) Tuning-fork spicules , found isolated or united into little " fibres " of two or three below the dermal scales .
These spicules vary greatly in form , some being very bizarre ( Plate 11 , figs. 20-22 , 25 , 26 ) .
Eig .
20 has the short prongs curved and bent inwards , the total length is 87 / a , the prongs being 18 / la long and 10 / a thick at the base ; in another example one prong is only 16 / a long , and the other 65 / a. Spicules a , b , c , form a thin scattered layer between the dermal scales and main skeletal framework .
Plate 10 , fig. 6 , shows the under surface of a scale with a few " fibres " or bundles each composed of two or three tuning-forks adhering to it .
The remarkable dermal scales or plates are imbricated so that the free edges are directed either towards the oscule or the poral groove ( Plate 10 , fig. 3b ) .
Some , however , are wholly uncovered by others .
The scales are mostly nearly circular in outline , though some are oval and a few triangular with rounded angles ( Plate 10 , fig. 6 , and Plate 11 , figs. 10 , 11 ) .
130 Mr. Ii .
Kirkpatrick .
On a Remarkable [ Aug. 16 , They vary considerably in size , a large nearly circular one being 525 / i in diameter and 20 / a thick in the centre , and with sharp , thin edge .
A smaller oval one measured 375x300 / x , with a thickness of 15 / a. The scales have commonly a convex outer surface marked with smooth tubercles and ridges , and a flat smooth inner surface , so that they are plano-convex .
The inner surface is so remarkably transparent as to be almost invisible , the scale appearing like a thin concave object , but foreign particles on the inner surface or , still better , a vertical section show that it is a thick plano-convex disc .
On the inner surface of some of the scales an epithelial layer of cells with round nuclei was clearly seen ; and a few such cells were found on the outer surface , which latter was often covered with the hyphse or threads of some fungus or alga .
In the vertical section of a stained , decalcified portion of sponge the outline of folds which included the scales could be distinguished .
The scales are very probably formed by dermal folds of epithelium , and not as products of single cells .
Systematic Position .
Murrayona differs greatly from any previously described Pharetronid sponge .
In spite of the absence of spicules from its main skeleton , it clearly shows affinities with the Lithoninse , especially with Petrostroma schulzei , Dod .
, in having bundles of tuning-forks in its scattered and scanty sub-dermal layer of spicules , and in having a firm main skeletal framework .
The Lithoninse have an axial core of spicules surrounded by cement .
In Murrayona , apparently , the sponge has given up forming this axial core .
I had stated ( 5 , p. 510 ) concerning Merlia K. , which I had at first supposed to be a Pharetronid sponge :\#151 ; " In the sub-family Lithoninse the framework is constructed on the Uton armt principle ; in Merlinse the bttonis not armS , the axial stiffening of spicules being dispensed with .
What was said of Merlinse applies to the new sub-family Murrayoninse , within which it is proposed to place Murrayona , Among the siliceous Chalinid sponges the skeleton is formed of horny fibres with an axial core of siliceous spicules .
In many instances gradations can be traced from such sponges to purely horny sponges from which the core of spicules has disappeared .
The same principle holds as in Murrayona .
The spongin-cement was , in such cases , originally formed to hold together the bundles of spicules , the latter being finally dispensed with .
The reasons in favour of the theory put forward above concerning the * I now have the clearest evidence that is a sponge with a siliceous and calcareous skeleton , and that it is in no way related to the Pharetron sponges .
1910 .
] PharetronidSponge from Christmas Island .
131 body-skeleton of Murrayona seem to me very strong .
In the Lithonine sponges Petrostroma schulzei , Dod .
, and Kirkp .
, the firm skeletal network is constructed of large four-rayed spicules cemented together .
In the older parts of the skeleton the calcareous cement becomes more and more developed , so that it is difficult to trace the spicules in the thick strands of the network .
In fact the role of the cement becomes increasingly important , and that of the axial core of spicules practically negligible .
As the cement became more rapidly and abundantly deposited , it would become increasingly difficult for the enclosed scleroblasts to retain their functions .
The dermal scales may have arisen owing to the tendency of so many Pharetronid sponges to form wrinkles and folds , a tendency so marked that Zittel ( 10 , p. 63 ) gives it in his diagnosis as one of the characters of the group\#151 ; " a smooth or corrugated dermal layer frequently present .
" Sometimes the wrinkles are concentric .
The tendency to form these calcareous surface-plates may be correlated with the richness of the sponge in cement-building cells .
Murrayona is of interest to the palaeontologist , because he must take into consideration the possibility that some fossil Pharetrones , in which he has been unable to detect spicules , may never have possessed them .
Hitherto , the absence of spicules has been attributed to fossilisation , and this may be the true cause in many instances , especially in those cases where the spicules are found in some parts of the sponge and not in others .
In Corynella ( Myrmecium ) gracilis , Munster , the skeletal network consists of thin anastomosing fibres , in which neither Zittel nor Hind have been able certainly to recognise spicules , though certain wavy lines and other doubtful markings were regarded possibly as being spicules .
Zittel ( 9 , Plate 12 , fig. 5 ) gives a figure of a section of C. gracilis , showing the fibres with spheroidal rayed crystalline structure .
The fibres of Murrayona have fanshaped or circular groupings of fibrillar markings , rather than spheroidal ( Plate 11 , fig. 16 ) .
The diagnoses of the new sub-family , genus and species , are as follows:\#151 ; Sub-family Murrayoninae ( n. sub-fam .
) , Pharetronidae with a firm main skeletal network entirely devoid of spicules .
Murrayona ( n. gen .
) , Murrayoninae with a dermal covering of scales .
Murrayona phanolepis , n. sp. With solely triradiate spicules , and with the poral area limited to a semicircular equatorial groove .
The six known recent species of Pharetronidae are the following:\#151 ; Mr. B. Kirkpatrick .
On a [ Aug. 16 , Family Pharetronid Zittel .
Sub-family i. Dialytinae , Rauff .
With spicules not cemented , but united into strands or bundles , which may be separate or may anastomose to form a network .
1 .
Ldapia australis , Gray .
Australia ( shallow ) .
2 .
Kebira uteoides , Row .
Red Sea ( shallow ) .
Sub-family ii .
Lithoninse , Zittel .
With spicules cemented together to form a solid network .
3 .
Petrostroma schulzei , Doderlein .
Japan , 109-218 fathoms .
4 .
Plectroninia hindei , Kirkp .
Funafuti , 50 fathoms .
5 .
Minchinella( ?
Bhaphidonema ) lamellosa , Kirkp .
New Hebrides , 70 fathoms .
Sub-family iii .
Murrayonime , n. sub-fam .
With firm main skeletal network devoid of spicules .
6 .
Murrayona phanolepis , n. gen .
, n. sp. Christmas Island , 46 fathoms .
INDEX OF LITERATURE .
1 .
Doderlein , L. , ' Yerhand .
Deutsch .
Zool. Gesellsch .
, ' 1892 , p. 143 .
2 .
Doderlein , L. , " Ueber die Lithonina , eine never Gruppe von Kalkscliwammen , " 'Zool .
Jahrb .
Syst. , ' 1898 , vol. 10 , p. 15 .
3 .
Dunikowski , E. von , " Die Pharetronen aus dem Cenoman von Essen und die systematische Stellung der Pharetronen , " ' Palaeontographica , ' 1883 , vol. 29 , pp. 281\#151 ; 348 , taf .
37\#151 ; 40 .
3a .
Haeckel , E. " Die Kalkschwamme , " 3 vols .
, Berlin , 1872 .
4 .
Hind , G. J. , " Notes on Fossil Calcisponges , " 'Ann .
Mag. N. H. , ' 1882 , ( 5 ) vol. 10 , p. 185 .
5 .
Kirkpatrick , R. , " On two new Genera of recent Pharetronid Sponges , " * Ann. Mag. N. H. , ' 1908 , ( 8 ) , vol. 2 , p. 503 .
6 .
Minchin , E. A. , Lankester 's 'Treatise on Zoology , ' Part II , Porifera , 1900 , p. 110 .
7 .
Rauff , H. , ' Palaeontographica , ' 1893 , vol. 40 .
8 .
Steinmann , G. , ' Einfiihrung in die Palaontologie , ' Zweite Aufiage , 1907 , pp. Ill\#151 ; 114 .
9 .
Zittel , K. A. , " Studien fiber fossile Spongien , " Dritte Abth .
, ' Abhand .
K. B. Akad .
, ' Munchen , 1879 , XIII , Zweite Abth .
, p. 19 .
10 Zittel , K. A. , 'A Text-book of Palaeontology , ' 1896 , vol. 1 , part 1 , p. 63 .
Kx.j'hp c P.Bi^Kley , del .
H i f kf \gt ; ci icTt .
Roy .
Soc. Proc 1,83 , 1 Pharetronid Sponge from Christmas Island .
Plate 10 .
Fig. 1 , 2.\#151 ; Murray ona phanolepis , gen .
et sp. nov .
Specimens B , C. Not .
size .
3.\#151 ; Specimen A , showing oscule .
Not .
size .
" 3a.\#151 ; The same , showing pore-area , inside view .
Not .
size .
3b.\#151 ; The same , showing pore-area and scales , x 5 .
M 4.\#151 ; Surface of portion of firm skeletal framework , x 20 .
5 .
\#151 ; Fragment broken off from pore-area , showing surface-pores , a sub-dermal space , and a surface-cluster of flagellated chambers , with prosopyles and\#151 ; on deeper plane\#151 ; apopyles .
6 .
\#151 ; Under surface of a dermal scale , showing tuning-forks loosely adherent , x 125 .
" 7.\#151 ; Broken fragment of same , a , canal , x 20 .
" 8.\#151 ; Portion of pore-area , showing 3 pores , x 125 .
" 9.\#151 ; Ground-down section of skeletal network , a , oscular region , x 12 .
Plate 11 .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Dermal scales , x 12 .
" 11.\#151 ; Dermal scale , x 125 .
" 12.\#151 ; Flagellated chambers , showing apopyles .
x 125 .
" 13.\#151 ; Section of canals and flagellated chambers , x 125 .
" 14.\#151 ; Section of a strand of the firm framework , showing fibrillse .
x 1150 .
" 15.\#151 ; Surface of a strand of same , showing ends of fibrilke .
x 1150 .
" 16.\#151 ; Portion of skeletal framework , showing the flake-like structure and fibrilla ? .
" 17 , 18 , 19 , 23 , 24.\#151 ; Triradiate spicules , x 425 .
" 20 , 21 , 22 , 25 , 26.\#151 ; Tuning-foi'k spicules x 425 .

