]\gt ; 1889 .
] Properties of Vnlcanised India-rubber .
233 At moments , we were conscious of dark lines crossing the spectrum , bnt the unfavourable conditions under which the observations wers made prevented us from ascertaining by measurement or otherwise , whether any of these lines were Fraunhofer lines .
July 5 ] VIII .
The .
Physical Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber.\ldquo ; By A. MALLOCK .
Communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received May 9 , 1889 .
Considering the wide use now made of india-rubber , it seems curious that the elastic constants which define its properties should not be as well known as the corresponding quantities for iron or brass .
The only published quantitative measure , however , with which I am acquainted , relating to the snbject , is contained in a paragraph of Thomson and Tait 's 'Natural Philosophy ' ( p. 230 , Part II , New Edition ) , where the resilience of vulcanised india-rubber , i.e. , the amount of work restored by the substance when to return to its equilibrium form , afler having been stretched to a maximum short of rupture , is stated to be eqmvalent to its own weight raised through 1200 metres .
In 1885 I made some measures of the value of Young 's modulus for india-rubber , and also examined the effect of coutinued strain on the material , but at that time I was not aware how much ferent kinds of india-rubber differed from one another in thess respects , and the experiments were made on one kind of vulcanised only , namely , a soft grey sort , which when cut , shows small spots of a yellowish-grey scattered throughout its substance .
This year I resumed the experiments , using specimens of three klnds of vulcanised india.rubber made at Silvertown .
The specimens were cut from a sheet half an inch thick , and were square in section , and one foot long .
One was a sofb grey kind , apparently identical in properties with that experimented on in 1885 .
The next was the well-known red sort , and the third a dark grey , much harder and stiffer than the two former .
On these specimens experiments were made to determine the three elastic constants , , Young 's modulus , the simple rigidity , and volume elasticity .
The apparent viscosity was also measured , and the behaviour of the materials under great strains , strains continued for long periods , observed .
Young 's modulus and the simple rigidity were each measured in two ways , statically and .
rfhe statical measurements being made by observing the extension and angle of torsion produced by a known force and moment ; while for dynamical measures the 234 Mr. A. Mallock .
Tlw Physical [ June 6 , frequencies were noted of the vibrations which the respective elasticities produced when acting on a known mass and moment of inertia .
As might be expected , the values obtained in these two ways do not agree , those given by the dynamical method being in all cases greater than statical values .
The volume of elasticity can be deduced from the values of Toung 's modulus and the simple rigidity by the equation where is the volume elasticity , Young 's modulus , and the simple rigidity .
Bnt since for india-rubber is very large , is very nearly equal to , and the measures of and must be very accurate to make this formula of any use .
The volume elasticity , therefore , was determined by direct The mean values deduced from all the experiments are given in the table at the end of the paper .
The values in this table refer to small strains .
When the extensions and distortions ars large the values of the constants aIter enormously , and the results are exhibited better by ' than numerically .
One property possessed by india-rubber , and to which part of the difference between the dynamic and static values of the elasticities is due , is that when strained by a givsn force , the extellsion due to the force increases gradually , rapidly at first , and then more and more slowly for many days .
The diflerence between the extension at the first moment after the application of the force and the limit to which the extension tends is proportional to the ension , and the rate at which the extension takes place an exponential funcbion of the time elapsed since the application of the force .
When the force is removed , the contraction takes place gradually in the same way , but not at the same rate , the constant muItiplying the time in the exponent being different in the two cases .
On the other hand , if the extension , not the force , is given , the force diminishes according to an exponential law as the tims ] apsed since the extension increases ; and if the extension be quickly reduced , until the force is nothing , and then maintained constant , a contractile forcs will appear , and increase with the time until it reaches the amount due to difference between the lengh the moment after reduction and the natural length .
The material appears , in fact , to take a subpermanent set , which ultimately becomes a definite fraction of the extension to which it is subjected .
889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber .
DIAGItAlI I. II .
rams I and II illustrato these properties , which possessed to a minuto by many substances usually considered perfectly elastic .
From these diagrams it will be seen that stic constants , , Young 's modulus and the rigidity , not completely defined unless the time is for which the force ) into pl acts .
Another property of india-rubber , especially collf ; picuous in the soft grey kind , is that when stretched to a cel'tain point the resistnnce to Mr. A. Mallock .
The Physical [ June 6 , ther extension increases.very rapidly , so rapidly indeed as to ygest that the structure of the material brings some sort of chanical stop into action .
See Diagram III .
DIAGBAM III .
Several mechanical mixtures such as putty ( chalk and oil ) , damp clay , and sand and water exhibit similar properties .
If a lump of putty be well rolled or beaten it will be found to be slightly elastic , but beyond the elastic limit to be easily stretched for a certain distance and then to become almost hard , at the same time the appearance of the surface changes from a smoot oily chal.acter to a dull granular one .
The explanation in this case is that the hard particles of the mixturc are , in its undisturbed state , separated each from its neighbour by a wall of fluid of finite thickness .
When the material is distorted 1889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber .
237 the particles separate from one auother in one direciion and approach one another in a direction right angles to this .
As long as this approach merely involves the flow of the intervening fluid , the distortion takes place with comparative ease ; but when the approach of the particles them into actnal contact with one another , the conditions change .
There is no longer a store of fluid between , say , the vertical layers of particles which can be drawn on to supply the increased distance between the horizontal layers , and if the strain is augmented it must imply either a distortion of the hard particles themselves or an increase of volume of the whole mass .
The latter is what happens in the cases just mentioned , the dull surface being the result of the flnid being sucked or rather pushed inwards by atmospheric pressure to supply the extra volume requlred in the interior , thus leaving the surface comparatively dry .
The dry patch which is seen for a short time to surround fresh footsteps on some kinds of wet sand , is an example of the same kind of action .
I will now describe the various experiments by which the resuIts given in the table were obtained .
( 1 .
) Statical Measure of Young 's Modulus .
The apparatus used is shown in fig. 1 .
The specimen of indiarubber is attached at one end to the balance beam and at the other to FIG. 1 .
Mr. A. Mallock .
The Physical [ June 6 , cord passing over a pulley , by means of which it can be subjected to any desired strain .
Two very fine pins ( fig. 2 ) , were fixed in the india-rubber at a distance of 10 inches from one another , and a thin strip of ebonite , Fro } .
2 .
one end a hole the size of the pin , and a mark , , ' 10 inches from the hole , was then placed inst the india-rubber with the pin passing the hole ; thus , when unstrained , the pin P.was exactly on same level as ; when the india-rubber was strained the extension PM tvas measured by the cathetometer Let stretching force , unstrained distance ) etweenP and between and under the action of sectional area when length is 's modnlus .
1889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised lndia-rubber .
Then and since india-rubber is nearly incompressible , hence To show the sort of agreement among themselves of the measures made in this way , I subjoin a table showing the results of five experiments , chosen at random from many others , on each of the kinds of india-rubber used , the units being inches and pounds .
The lowest values for are those given by experiments in which the stretching force acted for the longest time .
There is evidence also , which appears more strongly in the results represented by Diagram III , that diminishes with the extension until the stretched length is about 3/ 2 times the natural length .
( 2 .
) Young 's Modulus .
AP ( fig. 3 ) is a pendulum .
The strip of -rubber DC was held rigidly at , and attached at to the AB bracketed out from the pendulum .
The experiments were made by observing the period of the pendulum with the india-rubber attached , and noting the difference between this and the natural period of the pendulum .
The india-rubber was , of course , itially sined a little , and the amplitude of the vibrations used was never reat cnough to make the strain vanish .
Let be the natural period of the pcndulum , length of equivalent simple pcndulum , period of pendulum with india-rubber attached , VOL. XLVI .
Mr. A. Mallock .
The Physical [ June 6 , AB natural ] ength of india-rubbel .
, DC length of do .
when attached to pendulum , natural sectional area of do .
, weight of pendulum .
Then as before being Young 's modulus , FIG. 3 .
The following are examples of measures thus m 1889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber .
It will be noticed that the values of thus obtained are much greater for the soft grey and red varieties than thosc obtained statically , and tlJe chief part of this difference is due to their not having time to take the subpermanent set which they would if the period was very long , but in parb also it must be due to a thermodvnamic cause .
( S. ) Simple Rigidity .
Statical The arrangement shown in fig. 4 was used for both the statical and dynamical measures of the rigidity .
FIG. 4 .
The india-rubbel .
was held at each end by of sheet brass shown in section in fig. 5 .
Through the lower parb of the rod passes , which fixes its position .
The upper clamp C ' is attached to the AB , this bar being suspended in a horizontal plane by two silk from the point D. small plumb-bob is also hnng from to the centering of the upper and the divided circle F. When Mr. A. Mallock .
The Physical [ June 6 , adjustments are complete , the axis of the india-rubber is the continuabion of the line DE .
In the statical measures two silk threads were attached to , one the plumb-bob , and the other the small weight W. was drawn to one side as shown , care being taken that the horizontal projeofion of AH was at right angles to AB , and that HL was horizontal .
The distance HK was then measured with a scale , and the angle through which the moment due to the horizontal component of force acting along AH turned the bar AB was read on the divided circle F. The section of the specimens of india-rubber in these experiments being approximately square , and the reaction against torsion of a square prism being that of a circular cylinder of the same area , follows that , since the torsional igidity of similar prisnls varies as the fourth power of the linear dimensions of their section , therefore the circular cylinder which has the same torsional rigidity as a square prism whose side is , has a radius equal to In fig. AB length of the india-rubber , AK angle through which the india-rubber is turned , expressed in circular measure , sectional area of india-rubber , weight hung from H. Then if coefficient of rigidity and $ \amp ; e Thomson and Tait , ' Nat. Phil vol. 1 , Part II , p. 257 .
New Edilion .
1889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised lndia-rubber .
243 The measures of from each specimen are given below .
Many experiments were made , all agreeing very closely .
in .
in .
grains .
Rigidity , Dynamical Measure .
The small weights hung A bein removed , the periods of the torsional oscillations of AB about DE observed .
Let the time of oscillation , weight of AB , acceleration of gravity in inches and seconds .
Then for the other quantities involved , the notation the same as in ( 3 ) , For both the grey kinds of india-rubber the period varied considerably with the arc of vibration , owing partly to the extinction of the vibration being so rapid .
The results were as follows:\mdash ; What the explanation is of the very large values for given by method for the soft grey india-rubber , I have not been ftble to find out . .
A. Mallock .
The Physical [ June Both torsional measures give greater for the soft grey than for the red , whereas by the measures of Young 's modulus , which should be very nearly equal to is considerably greater for the red .
It is possible that there be a kind of " " grain\ldquo ; in the sheets of the soft grey india-rubber , and that as the distortion produced by the extension in Experiments ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) is not in the same direction as that due to the torsion in Experiments ) , ( 4 ) , the origin of the difference is to be looked for in this quarter .
( 5 .
) Young 's Modulus for Large Diagram III gives the results of these experiments .
They were made with the apparatus shown in fig. 1 .
The actual measures were on strips of inch section , which were cut from the larger ces in a planing machine by a sharp thin knife , wetted with dilute caustic soda .
The sectional area of the strips so cut was exceedingly uniform , and its smallness was convenient , as it allowed of moderate orces being used to produce the required strains , which were ntil the breaking strain was reached .
In the diagram the results are reduced to what they would have been had the piece of india-rubber operated upon a cube of one inch when unstrained .
The ordinates of the curves , are the lengths which such cubes of soft grey , red , and hard grey india-rubber would respec ' tively assume when stretched by represented by the abscissae .
In the curves , the readings were taken as rapidly as possible , while in , an interval of two minutes was allowed between each successive addition to the strain .
There were from thirty to fifty observations made for each curve .
In the case of the soft grey , it did not seem to make much difference whether the readings were taken quickly or vise .
Let and be the and natural lgths of the ldia-rubber , the stretching force , then , and if the material is incompressible , By this equation the were deduced from to show the variation of with the extension .
It is worth while to observe that since if remain constant for all extensions , so that with constant , if a stretching force be applied equal per unit area to 's modulus , the extension will be infinite .
1889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber .
245 The breaking strains for the different specimens were found to be BedSoftg.rey . . . .
Hard grey. . . . . . .
The section is that at the moment of rupture .
These numbers , therefore , are not the forces required to break a length of india-rubber of one square inch section when nnstrained To obtain the force equisite for this purpose , the numbers given above must be divided by the extensions of the unit length at the moment of rupture .
They are iven directly by the termination of the curves , and are about 820 lbs. for all three kinds .
The tensile strength , however , is dependent in some measure on the time for whioh the force is applied , a .
application of force .
rupture when the force itself is not sufficient produce the maximum extension .
This is particularly noticeable in the case of the hard grey india-rubber .
lume Elasticity .
There was some difficulty in obtaining a direct measul'e of this coefficient , owing to the very large pressures which ] to be employed to produce any measurable compression .
The plan which succeeded best was to enclose the -rubber in a FIG. 6 .
Mr. A. llock .
Physical [ June 6 , glass tube , A , fig. 6 , the lower end of which was ground flat and cemented to a small plate of thick glass , B. The her end of the tube was drawn out to a neck , the aperture being about inch in diameter .
After the india-rubber was enclosed and the plate cemented on , A was filled with water , great care being taken that no air bubbles were enclosed .
The neck was then closed by a ball of soft wax and tnrpentine mixture , , and the whole immersed in water in a castiron cylinder ( fig. 7 ) , when it was subjected to a pressure of about .
per square inch .
Under this pressure the water and india-rubber are somewhat compressed .
Since the wax and turpentine is soft , the glass tube experiences but little difference of internal and external pressure , the mixture flowing in through the neck of the tube and forming a long filament , , the volume of which represents the compression of the contents of the tube .
When the pressure is gradually removed this filament is partly expelled , but retains its shape , and its length and sectional area being known , the data supplied for computing the volume elasticity of the india-rubber .
Let be the volume of the tube do .
india-l'ubber , do .
the intruded wax , the elasticity of water , do .
do .
india-rubber , the pressure in cylinder. .
1889 .
] Properties of India-rubber .
Then As a test of the accuracy of the } , the volume elasticity of water measured .
The value found for was 296,000 lbs. per square inch , a resuIt which is not far from the truth .
The values for india-rubber were Soft grey . . . . . .
198,000 Red. . . . . . . . . .
115,000 Hard grey . . . . .
940,000 These values are the means of all the experiments after the first .
The first application of pressure , however , always produced a much more considerable compression , and if the volume of elasticity had been deduced from the first experiment only , its value would have been about half iven above in the case of the soft grey and red ; and for the hard grey , about one-eighth .
( 7 .
) The rate at which the vibration in Experiment ( 4 ) died away was used to determine the coefficient of viscosity .
Diagram gives the\ldquo ; cnrves of extinction\ldquo ; for the three kinds of india-rubber .
The ordinate of the curve is at each point , the ampliDIAGRAII IV .
Properties of Vulcanised Jndia-rubber .
[ June 6 , tude which the vibration would have if the phase of the vibration was such that a maximum distance from the position of rest occurred at that point .
Let be the logarithmic decrement of the vibration , and the amplitudes of the 1st and vibrations respectively , then and if be the coefficient of viscosity , The symbols with the exception of A ] aving the same meaning as those in Experiment ( 4 ) .
The values found for were RedSoftgrey . .
pounds per square inch .
Hard grey . . . .
The coefficient represents the tangential force required to distort a cube of one inch of the material at the rate of one inch per second , independently of that necessary to overcome the elastic reaction , on the assumption that the viscous resistance to distortion varies as the rate of distortion .
of the apparent viscosity however must be due to the difference of the rates at which the sub-permanent set is produced and removed .
( 8 .
) The densities of the specimens were Soft grey . . . . . .
Red . . . . . . . . . .
Hard grey . . . .
( 9 .
) Chemical Composition .
I had no means at my disposal here of making a good analysis , but a rough determination of the percentage of sulphur was obtained by decomposing a known weight of each kind with caustic soda and nitre , and observing the quantity of barium chloride required in each case to precipitate the sulphate formed .
The results were Sulphur , per cent. Soft grey . . . . . . . .
Red . . . . . . . .
: . . .
grey . . . . . .
* Maxwell 's 'Electricity and Magnetism , ' vol. 2 , 239 .
1889 .
] esents Both the grey ubbers yield a considerable ash when burnt .
The hard grey , as is apparent from its density , containing a percentage of inorganic matter .
The following table ives the mean of all the experiments .
Table showing the Physical Properties of three of Vulcanised India-lubber .
The units employed throughout this paper are the inch , pound , and second .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 20th .
Presents , Jcme 6 , Transactions .
Baltimore :Johns Hopkins University .
Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Ser. 7 .
Nos. 5-6 .
1889 .
The University .
Batavia :Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappcn .
Notulen .
Deel XXVI .
Aflev .
3 . .
Batavia 1888 ; Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- , Land- en Volkenkunde .
Deel XXXII .
Aflev .
5 .
; Nederlandsch- Indisch Plakaatboek , 1602-1811 .
Deel 1888 .
The Society .

