Council of the Society , had that morning waited upon His Majesty at St. James 's Palace , for the purpose of witnessing the inscribing of the Royal Signature in the Charter Book of the Society , conformably with the intention which His Majesty had been graciously pleased to express through the Right Hon. Robert Peel , the Secre ?
tarry of State for the Home Department , in answer to an Address presented to His Majesty by the President and Council , in the name of the Society , in the month of July last .
His Royal Highness stated that he on this occasion addressed the King to the following effect : ?
Sire , " May it please Your Majesty , " The President and Council of the Royal Society , instituted for the promotion of natural knowledge , in obedience to your commands , now appear in Your Majesty 's presence , and humbJy crave your gracious permission to lay before you the Volume of their Registry for the insertion of your Royal Signature as Patron of their Insti ?
tution .
Under the fostering care of Your Majesty 's predecessors this Society has constantly laboured for upwards of one hundred and seventy years in the pursuit of those objects for which it was originally instituted .
This further proof of Your Majesty 's favour and patronage will give an additional stimulus to our exertions in the promotion of natural knowledge .
" While we venture once more to return you our most humble and sincere thanks for the assurances it has pleased you , Sire , to give to us of enjoying your Royal Favour , may we be permitted , in unison with all classes of Your Majesty 's faithful and loyal subjects , to offer up our most fervent prayer to the Ruler of all Princes and Kingdoms , for the health , the prosperity , and the happiness of our Most Gracious Sovereign , the patron of every charitable , seientific , and liberal institution .
" To this address His Majesty was pleased to return a most gra ?
cious answer j expressing the high sense he had always entertained of the value and importance of science iu conducing to the pros ?
perity , the happiness , and the glory of nations , ?
an opinion which he had been led to form in early life by witnessing , while engnged in the service of his profession in the navy , the immense practical advantages which result from the cultivation of science ; and assuring the Society of his earnest desire to promote their objects and foster their exertions in so excellent a cause as that in which they are engaged ; and of his anxious wish that they should cordially cooperate with the seientific and learned men of other countries in the same laudable endeavours to enlarge the boundaries of human knowledge .
His Majesty signed his name , in a leaf prepared for the purpose , in the Charter Book , as Patron of the Royal Society .
The Members of the Council were then severally presented to His Majesty by'His Royal Highness , and had the honour of kissing His Majesty 's hand .
His Royal Highness proceeded to state , that himself , attended by the Council , had afterwards the honour of presenting the following Address to Her Majesty , by whom they were most graciously received .
" To the Queen 's Most Gracious Majesty , " May it please Your Majesty , " As President of the Royal Society of London for improving na ?
tural knowledge , permit me , Madam , on behalf of that body , to lay before Your Majesty an humble but sincere avowal of the deep respect and entire attachment which every Member of our Society entertains for Your Majesty 's most gracious person , for the Royal and illustrious Consort of our beloved and venerated Monarch , His Most Gracious Majesty King Wiliiam the Fourth .
" It is not , perhaps , unknown to Your Majesty , that the Society over which I have the honour to preside , was incorporated in the reigri of King Charles the Second ; and , by the especial favour of that monarch , it was designated The Royal Society , ?
a distinction which every succeeding monarch of these realms has been pleased to continue .
" A sense of duty and gratitude has led us , in the first instance , to offer up our tribute of condolence and congratulation to the King 's Most Excellent Majesty , on the demise of our late revered Sovereign , and upon his own accession to the crown of his ancestors .
" Having discharged this duty to our Patron , and having just obtained his Royal Signature , we now venture to request Your Ma ?
jesty 's powerful support and cheering protection ; and that Your Majesty will be graciously pleased to receive us into your Royal Fa ?
your .
Our humble expectations rest on the ground of public utility .
The great object of our Institution has been , and will , we trust , long continue to be , the promotion of natural science in all its branches .
With our success in this respect , the prosperity of our common country is closely and indissolubly connected .
" Accept then , Royal Madam , the assurances of our duty and allegiance ?
and suffer us , in conclusion , to express our warmest wishes for Your Majesty 's uninterrupted welfare and peace .
" May the great Giver of all good pour down his blessings on your royal person !
May it be consistent with the wise and merciful dispensations of his Providence , that , together with Your Majesty , our generous and beloved Sovereign may long continue to watch over the interests , and to direct the labours , of a free , loyal , and united people !
" To which Her Majesty was pleased to return the following most gracious answer .
i( I thank you very cordially for your expressions of affectionate attachment towards myself , and dutiful congratulations towards the King , on his accession to the throne of his ancestors .
" Firmly convinced as I am that the diffusion of natural science , guarded and protected by religion and morality , must be conducive to the prosperity of this country , the President and F'ellows of the Royal Society may always depend upon my countenance and approbation , as I am convinced they will receive the support and protection of the King .
" The Members of the Council were then severally presented to Her Majesty by His Royal Highness , and had the honour of kissing Her Majesty 's hand .

