On a definite Arrangement .
and Order of the Appearance and Progress , of the Aurora Borealis ; and on its Height above the Surface of the Earth .
In a Letter to Davies Gilbert , Esq. M.P. P.R.S. By the Rev..James Farquharson , Minister of the Parish of Allford , Aberdeenshire .
Read January 22 , and February 29 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 103 .
] The results of the -numerous observations of the author on the Aurora Borealis , which on several occasions were made under very favourable circumstances , had already been announced in a short paper , published in 1823 in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal ; and it was concluded from them that the Aurora Borealis has in all $ases a determinate arrangement and figure , and follows an invariable order in its appearance and progress ; that the pencils of rays or streamers , as they are called , generally make their first appearance in the north ; and as they rise from the horizon , assume the form of an arch , extending from east to west , and having its vertex in the plane of the magnetic meridian , the arch itself being at right angles to that plane .
While the arch itself is near the horizon , its breadth from north to south is considerable ; and the streamers of which it is composed appear to be nearly at right angles to the general line of the arch , their directions converging to a point a few degrees to the south of the zenith .
As the arch moves forwards towards the south , its lateral dimensions appear to contract , the intensity of its light increases , and the directions of the streamers , still tending to the same point in the heavens , approach more nearly to parallelism with that of the arch .
When it has passed the zenith , and arrived at the above-mentioned point , a little to the south of the zenith , the arch is seen as a narrow belt , 30 or 40 only in breadth , and with welldefined edges .
In its further progress southwards , it again enlarges in breadth , and exhibits , in a reverse order , the same succession of changes as before .
Hence , the author concludes that the streamers have individually a position nearly vertical or parallel to the magnetic dip ; that they form a thin fringe , stretching often to a great distance from east to west , at right angles to the magnetic meridian ; and that the movement of the fringe from north to south takes place by the extinction of streamers at its northern side , and the formation of new ones contiguous to its southern side .
From a variety of observations which are detailed in this paper , the author infers , in opposition to the opinion of Mr. Dalton , that the region occupied by this meteor is above , but contiguous to , that of the clouds , or at least to that in which aqueous vapour is condensed , so as afterwards to appear in the form of clouds .
The height of this region he estimates as in general about 2000 feet above the surface ; and lie is of opinion , that while such is the height of the lower ends of the vertical streamers , their upper ends may have an elevation of 2000 or 3000 feet more .

