346 Preliminary Note on the Origin Hydrochloric Acid in the Gastric Tubules .
By Mabel Purefoy FitzGerald ( Oxford ) .
( Communicated by Prof. A. B. Macallum , F.R.S. Received March 7 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1910 .
) ( From the Biochemical Laboratory of the University of Toronto.)* The place of origin in the peptic glands of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice has been , during the last 60 years , a question the solution of which has been directly attempted by a number of observers whose efforts have on the whole been unsuccessful .
The first to attack the question was Claude Bernard , who sought to localise the acid formation in the glands by injecting into the blood-vessels of a rabbit , first a solution of lactate of iron and thereafter one of potassium ferrocyanide .
When the two solutions mingle in the circulating fluid and tissues of the body the mixture should , he assumed , only give the Prussian blue reaction in the presence of a free acid , and , in consequence , when diffused through the gastric glands , it should develop the blue reaction where the hydrochloric acid is formed .
The assumption is not quite correct .
The mixture of the two solutions , as soon as it is made , in the test-tube , develops Prussian blue even when the purest reagents are employed and , therefore , though the addition of an acid greatly enhances the blue reaction , the latter is not infallible evidence of the occurrence of a free acid .
With this method , however , Bernard found a blue deposit on the surface of the mucosa in the lesser curvature of the stomach , but no trace of blue in the interior of the mucosa .
This result left the question undecided .
Other observers also employed this method , but with a like result .
Even with aniline dyes which , reacting with acids , give a different colour , the histological elements concerned in the formation of the acid ^ould not be determined .
All the facts known regarding the structure of the peptic tubules in Mammals seem to indicate that the cells engaged in the formation of the acid are those known as parietal .
This has now been directly confirmed , and by the use of Claude Bernard 's method .
In this , however , the citrate of iron and ammonia replaced the lactate salt which he used .
Mixtures of solutions of the double citrate salt * Research carried out while holding a Travelling Fellowship of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research , New York , 1908 .
The Origin of the Hydrochloric Acid in the Gastric Tubules .
347 and potassium ferrocyanide give , even after standing for 24 hours , no evidence of the formation of Prussian blue , nor is the latter produced in the mixtures when either sodium dihydric phosphate or carbon dioxide dissolved in excess is present .
On the other hand , the addition of very dilute acids , organic or inorganic , suffice to develop at once a marked Prussian blue reaction .
In the case of hydrochloric acid , a concentration of 36 parts of acid in 100,000 ( or 0'036 per cent. ) gives , with an equal volume of the mixture , a distinct blue , and as the acid in the gastric juice is much more concentrated than this , a mixture of equimolecular solutions of the double salt and potassium ferrocyanide ought , when injected hypodermically or intravenously , to indicate minutely the structures in the gastric mucosa which are concerned in the production of hydrochloric acid .
Hypodermic injections of the mixture in rabbits and guinea-pigs give results which fully bear out this assumption .
Within a few hours after the injections , a more or less circumscribed greenish deposit was found adhering to the mucosa of the lesser curvature adjacent to the oesophageal opening .
An examination of sections of the underlying tissue revealed , in some instances , no evidence of any blue compound in the gland tubules or in the crypts into which they opened , but in one rabbit the Prussian blue was found at isolated points in the gland tubules and in the crypts into which they opened .
In this case only rarely did the reaction appear throughout the length of the upper two thirds of the lumen of a tubule .
Much more often it was confined to the third of the lumen next the crypt , while it never obtained in the lowest third .
Here and there from these deposits in the lumina there branched out lines in blue , which penetrated the parietal cells .
As a rule there was only one branch to each cell , but occasionally as many as three or more were found to penetrate a cell .
Each branch , immediately on entering the cell , usually ramified , and the branchlets , penetrating the depths of the cell , in some cases curved around the nucleus to reach the cytoplasm on its far side .
The blue twigs did not appear to touch the nucleus .
Local aggregations of the blue deposit in these canaliculi gave the latter at times a beaded appearance .
The cytoplasm itself , apart from the ramifications of the blue canaliculi , was as a rule free from colour .
The exceptions implied in this were cells in which , under the most favourable daylight illumination , an exceedingly faint , almost imperceptible , blue appeared throughout the cytoplasm .
In some cases it was uncertain whether this was due to a scattering of the light reflected from the blue material in the canaliculi , but in the other cases the faint blue appeared to indicate that there is free hydrochloric acid in the cytoplasm .
It would seem that however the acid is held in the cytoplasm , whether in 348 The Origin of the Hydrochloric Acid in the Gastric .
the free ( ionised ) or in the " masked " ( un-ionised ) condition , it is not always secreted into the canaliculi .
In some cases , notably in certain rabbits it was liberated only on the surface of the cell remote from the lumen of the tubule .
In this case there was no blue deposit in the lumina of the tubules or in the canaliculi of the parietal cells , but in the lymph capillaries immediately adjacent to the tubules there was a blue granular deposit which revealed the course of the capillaries .
The lymph cells in the course of the larger channels also contained in their cytoplasm a blue granular deposit .
Sometimes , further , the contents of the blood capillaries in such preparations here and there gave a blue reaction .
The explanation which may be advanced for these results is that the cytoplasm of the parietal cells , perhaps under the toxic effect of the potassium ferrocyanide , has lost some of its osmotic properties and the direction of elimination of the acid is changed ?
in other words , the parietal cells in this case have,.as it were , lost the sense of direction .
The observations briefly summarised here will , with others of a cognate character , eventually appear in a more complete communication .

