I. " Computation of the Lengths of the Waves of Light corresponding to the Lines in the Dispersion-Spectrum measured by Kirchhoff .
" By GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received March 2 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after adverting to the excellence and importance of the spectral measures made by Professor Kirchhoff , points out that these measures are not available for physical inquiry until we have deduced from them the length of the light-wave corresponding to each line .
The author therefore undertook the work of computing the lengths of the light-waves .
For this purpose , he referred to Fraunhofer 's direct measures of the lengths of the waves corresponding to certain lines , and , ascertaining the numerical measures in Kirchhoff 's scale corresponding to the same lines , he expressed Fraunhofer 's wave-lengths by an algebraical formula , in which the variable quantity was Kirchhoff 's measure .
This formula was applied to each of the lines ( about 1600 in number ) .
The wave-lengths were at first obtained in parts of the Paris inch ; but all were ultimately converted into parts of the millimetre .
The author then adverts to the suspicion of inaccuracy in some parts of these results , arising from the circumstance that Kirchhoff 's apparatus was not always in precisely the same state of adjustment .
After expressing his own a priori belief that the error , if any , must be extremely small , he adverts to the comparison which he was now enabled to make between direct measures of wave-length by Angstr6m and Ditscheiner , and his own computations .
Admitting the systematic errors of Fraunhofer which the later philosophers have indicated , and the errors incidental to interpolation and extrapolation , the remaining discrepance is very small .
Its progress is so easy that there is no difficulty in interpolating its value for any one line ; and thus , using the computed wave-lengths of this memoir , the wave-length for any line may be found as it would have been measured by 0 Angstrom or Ditscheiner .
In the tabular part of the communication , the principal Table contains Kirchhoff 's measures and symybols , extracted from the Berlin Memoirs 1861 and 1862 , with the addition throughout of one column containing the author 's computed wave-lengths expressed in parts of the millimetre .
This is followed by a special Table , in the same form , for the lines produced by certain metals not included in the general Table .
There is then given a Table of the wave-lengths corresponding to the lines produced by different metals , extracted by the author from the general Table .
And finally there are given two Tables containing respectively the comparisons of Angstrom 's and Ditscheiner 's direct measures of wave-lengths with the wave-lengths computed by the author .

