]\gt ; 126 Nlr .
A. Mallock .
materia ] , and the potassium chloride formed exercises its specifi influence on this reaction .
The secondary action upon potassium iodide producing iodine iS an instantaneous one , unless the qualltity of this substance is below a certain minimum .
Below this the velocity observed in the mixture will be less than normal .
The effect of increasing the amount of this snbstance to much greater than the minimum is closely analogous to that of a similar increase of any neutral salt .
The velocity is an exponential function of the temperature , as was observed in Messrs. Harcourt and Esson 's investigations .
As the latter increases in arithmetical progression , the former increases in geometrical progression .
The rate is about doubled for a rise of C. The ratio in this progression is not , however , absolutely constant , but varies a little with the temperature at which it is taken .
Thus between and C. the rate is a little more than doubled for a rise of ; between and it is a little less than doubled . .
" " mination of the Viscosity of Water By A. MALLOCK .
Communicated by Lord BAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received November 30 , 1888 .
The experiments here described , which were made during April and May of the present year ( 1888 ) , to determine the constant of viscosity of water , may be of some interest on account of the newness of the method employed , and also as being on rather a larger scale than other experiments which have been made with the same object .
Fig. 1 gives a section of the apparatus used .
A and are two coaxial cylinders ; of these A is mounted on the vertical axis Fi , and can be made to rotate by a belt passing over the wheel is suspended by a long fine wire , and the annula space between A and is filled with water or any other fluid to be experimented on .
A little way above the lower edge of is fixed an air-tight phragm , so that when the space between the two cylinders is filled with liquid air is enclosed under , and the liquid touches only on the cylindrical surface .
The interior of above is filled with water which serves the purposes of checking the torsional vibrations of , of preventing any rapid change of temperature of the liquid in the annulus , and of holding the thermometer .
The experiments were made by driving the cylinder A at a uniform speed and recording the angle through which is turned when it comos to rest under the action of the fluid friction 011 its cylindrical surface and the torsion of the suspending wire C. A was driven by Determination of the scosity of Water a remontoir in connexion with a governor , and the speed recorded electrically on a Iaph by means a contact makel on the axis The torsion of the wire was measured on a divided circle ached to B. To get the absolute value of the torsion-scale the following method was used : \mdash ; is a small wcight hnng at the end of a silk thread the ncighbourhood of ] lorsion-wire C. is the divided circle 011 B. a second thread , , is to the circumference of H. Tho point of is over a horizontal scale , and a reading of its position taken when there is no strain , that is , when is vertically .
The weight is then displaced by unclamping the circle from and winding up the thread round its circumference , then reclamping and things to come to rest ; readings are taken of the displacement of and the position of H. this the thread is cut and the position of read again .
ffallock .
[ Dec. These experiments give directly the force which a known angular twist of the wire exerts at the known radius of the divided circle .
These experiments are recorded below , and it will be seen that the esults are very fairly consistent .
The dimensions of the various parts of the apparatus are given in the computation of the viscosity constant .
In making the experiments on viscosity the velocity of the circumference of the cylinder A was made to vary from to 50 metres minute .
It was found that at all these speeds the force tending to turn the inner cylinder could be represented by the sum of two terms , ono varying as the velocity and the other as the square of the velocity ; the latter small compared to the former , even at the highest speed .
See Diagram 1 .
The cause of the square term seems to be that , owing to the action of the bottom revolving cylinder , a circulation is set up in the fluid in the annulus , the flow being up bhe side of the revolving cylinder and down the side of the stationary one , the resuIt being that the fluid having the velocity due to a position near the outer cylinder is by this circulation continuously carried towards the inner one , th making the variation of velocity in the neighbourhood of the 1888 .
] Detep.mination of the Viscosity of Water .
129 latter greater than it would otherwise be.* As far as could be observed there was no trace of eddies with axes parallel to that of the cylinders .
The proportion between the two terms depends on the ratio between the length of the cylinders and the breadth of the annuIus , the square term becoming smaller and smaller to the other as the ratio increases .
It was found that when the temperature of the fluid was altered the coefficient of the term varying as the velocity changed , but that the coefficient of the square term remained unaffected .
The value of the viscosity constant deduced from these experiments agrees closely with that obtained from the experiments of Poiseuille on the flow of liquids through capillary tubes .
I now proceed to give the method and the numerical data which were employed in the computation .
Let radius of cylinder . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5 .
depth of immersed surface of . . . .
linear velocity of surface of torsional angle through which is turned by the action of the water ; whole tangential force ; coefficient of viscosity ; the units being the gram , centimetre , and second .
If of being in an annulus the water was contained between two parallel planes of infinite extent , the distortion usect by the motion of one of these planes parallel to the other would be uniform throughout the whole mass of enclosed fluid .
But in the case of the liquid enclosed between two cylinders , .
the distortion is uniform over each cylindrical surface in the fluid coaxial with the enclosing cylinders , yet it changes in passing from one such sir .face to another , increasing as the radius decreascs .
fact , since the total moment transmitted by each surface is constant , the rate of distortion necessary to produce this moment must be inversely as the area of the surface and radius of the cylinder at which it occurs ; that is , the rate of distortion at radius is proportional to , hence the value of at is\mdash ; rofessor J. Thomson has pointed out a circ having ver origin must take place in a when fiowing round a bend .
[ A correction has been introduced here , and the equations 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) .
It was stated that ansmitted was conslant , but the errol was pointed out to me Lord Rayleigh .
In consequence of this ert.ort ] numerical values of subseqnently given must be by \mdash ; JaIluary 1 , 1889 .
] .
A. Mallock . . . . . . .
where is the velocity at lntegrating between and with the conditions that when , and when . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , whence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , The numerical value of A is that of at the origin of the curve in Diagram 1 .
The ordinate being the circlular measure of the angle through which the cylinder is turned by the viscosity of the when the cylinder A has the velocity represented by the abscissa in centimetres per second .
To determine the following measures were :\mdash ; In fig. weight of OP R. ED POP ' is the displacement of from the vertical caused by the torsion of the wire ough the angle acting at radius R. .
altd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 4 ) The experiments gave the following values for and :\mdash ; meant 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
52287 Mean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
52092 1888 .
] Also Determination of the Viscosity of Water .
Multiplying by to convert to circular measure Whence 02.354 .
The diagrams , which were taken at random from many similar ones plotted during the course of the experiments , give A at the temperatures at , and C. We have -tlso since ) have { whenoe . . . .
, . . . .
The results are shown in the form of a curve in Diagram 2 , the ordinates being the values of and the abscissae the tcmpcrature .
are shown by the dolted curve .
The chief terest of these expel.iments , vond that attaching to an independent detel.mination of by a new method , lies in the comparatively high velocities at which the viscous orces remain the of tance .
used in this series .
Many experiments were made on the viscosity of fluids other than water , but as find that the resuIts do not differ materially from tbose of Poiseuille it is unnecessary to give them here .
I A DlAC , RAII 2 .

