1873 .
] Sir B. C. Brodie on the Synthesis of Marsh-gas , fyc .
245 Various observers are then quoted in support of the accuracy of the description given ; and the probability is pointed out , and supported by an observation of Prof. Briicke , that in all cases in which alternating disks of isotropous and anisotropous substances are observed , the muscular fibre is in a state of contraction ( although not necessarily shortened)\#151 ; that is to say that the anisotropous substance has become accumulated between the shafts of the rods , the isotropous disks being due to the rod-heads , between which there is no perceptible amount of anisotropous substance left remaining .
The author concludes the paper by offering a conjecture as to the nature of the substances which , according to his description , compose the proper substance of muscle , and as to the probable mode in which the contraction is effected .
He is inclined to regard the intermediate ground-substance as the true contractile part , and thinks that it may be allied in nature to ordinary protoplasm , the rods , on the other hand , being elastic structures , and merely serving to restore the fibre to its original length .
II .
" Note on the Synthesis of Marsh-gas and Formic Acid , and on the Electric Decomposition of Carbonic Oxide .
" By Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , late Waynflete Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received April 3* , 1873 .
In connexion with the investigation on the electric decomposition of carbonic-acid gas referred to in a previous communication to the Society , I was led to submit a mixture of hydrogen and carbonic-oxide gas to the action of electricity in the induction-tube , the mixed gases being circulated through the tube by means of an apparatus which I will not now describe .
A contraction was soon observed to have taken place , which at the end of an hour amounted to 10 cub. centims. The rate of contraction steadily diminished , and during the fifth hour of the duration of the experiment amounted to only 2 cub. centims. The experiment was stopped , and the gas analyzed with the following results in two several analyses:\#151 ; I. Carbonic oxide ... . .
61*65 Hydrogen ... ... ... . .
32* 16 Marsh-gas ... ... ... . .
6*14 100*00 II .
Carbonic oxide ... ... 61*35 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... .32*34 M !
arsh-gas ... ... ... . .
6*31 100*00 A small quantity ( about 2 per cent. ) of nitrogen was also contained in * Received in nearly the same form March 27 .
246 Sir B. C. Brodie on the Synthesis of Marsh-gas , [ Apr. 3 , the gas , together with a trace of oxygen , which have been omitted from the calculation .
The result of this reaction is expressed in the following equation C0 + 3H2=CH4+H20 .
This fundamental experiment , which constitutes the basis of a new method of chemical synthesis , susceptible of the most yaried applications , and of peculiar interest in reference to the explication of natural phenomena , was commenced by me on the 10th of January last at Oxford , in the laboratory of my friend and successor in the Chair of Chemistry , Professor Odling ; and two analyses of the gas were completed , and the results attained in the course of a week from that date .
In a similar experiment made with a mixture of hydrogen and carbonic-acid gas , a contraction also occurred , attended with the formation of water .
The gas which resulted from the experiment was found to consist ( after the absorption of carbonic acid ) of hydrogen and carbonic oxide , together with a little marsh-gas .
Traces of oxygen and nitrogen were also present .
Minute drops , too , of an oily liquid appeared in the tube .
This liquid , after the conclusion of the experiment , was dissolved in a small quantity of water .
The solution was strongly acid and had a pungent taste .
It reduced an alkaline solution of terchloride of gold and an ammoniacal solution of nitrate of silver .
_ These reactions are the characteristic properties of formic acid , of which we may infer the synthesis to have been effected according to the equation h2+co2=ii2co2 .
I may avail myself of the present opportunity to place on record the following important facts in reference to the action of electricity on earthen pure and dry carbonic oxide is circulated through the induction-tube and there submitted to the action of electricity , a decomposition of the gas occurs , attended with a gradual and regular contraction which , m the form assumed in my experiments , occurred at the regular rate of about 5 cub. centims. in an hour .
Carbonic acid is formed , and simultaneously with its formation a solid deposit may be observe m e induction-tube .
This deposit appears as a transparent film a^redbrown colour , lining the walls of the tube .
It is perfectly soluble m water , which is strongly coloured by it .
The solution has an intensely aC1The solidMeposit in the tube , in the dry condition before it has been in contact with water , is an oxide of carbon .
Samples , however made i different experiments do not present precisely the same composi io , nevertheless they appear to belong to a certain limited number of form which repeatedly occur , and may invariably be referred to the samegene^ order or system .
This system is , or appears to be , w a may 1873 .
] Messrs. Gladstone and Tribe on an .
247 homologous series of " oxycarbons , " of which the unit of carbon with the weight 12 may be regarded as the first term , and of which the adjacent terms-differ by an increment of carbonic oxide ( CO ) weighing 28 , precisely as homologous series of hydrocarbons differ by the increment CH2 with the weight 14 .
I have succeeded in identifying by analysis two at least of these substances , namely the adjacent terms C403 and C604 .
From this point of view these peculiar bodies are members of a series of oxycarbons analogous in the oxycarbon system to the series of hydrocarbons of which the unit of carbon is the first and the unit of acetylene Call2 is the second term , the oxycarbon C403 being represented in that series by the hydrocarbon crotonylene C4H8 , and the oxycarbon Ce04 by the hydrocarbon valerylene CsHa .
III .
" On an Air-Battery .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , F.C.S. Received March 6 , 1873 .
The galvanic battery which we are about to describe is founded on a reaction that we brought under the notice of the Royal Society last spring* .
We then showed that if pieces of copper and silver in contact are immersed in a solution of nitrate of copper in the presence of oxygen , a decomposition of the salt ensues , with the formation of cuprous oxide on the silver and a corresponding solution of the copper , while a galvanic current passes through the liquid from copper to silver .
We stated , moreover , that this was no isolated phenomenon , but only one of a large class of similar reactions .
It seemed desirable to examine more fully the history and the capabilities of the electrical power thus produced .
It was previously ascertained that the combination of the oxygen takes place only in the neighbourhood of the silver ; and the following formulae may serve to render the chemical change and transference more intelligible:\#151 ; Before contact , .
mAg -f- O + Cu2N 03+Cu2N 03 -f- nCu ; .
after contact , mAg + Cu20 + Cu2N03 + Cu2N03+(n-2 ) Cu .
This action is evidently a continuous one until either the oxygen or the copper fails .
Now the oxygen of the atmosphere is practically unlimited in amount , but there is a difficulty in bringing any large quantity of it into contact at once with the silver and the dissolved salt .
To facilitate this , we arrange that the silver plate should have a horizontal position just under the surface of the liquid in the cell ; and , * Proc. Boy .
So .
, April 1872 , vol. xx .
p. 290 .

