On the dispersive Power of the Atmosphere , and its Efect on astronamical Observations .
By Stephen Lee , Clerk and Librarian to the Royal Society .
Communicated by W. H. Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read June 15 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 375 .
] Although the appearances of colour given to low stars by atmospheric refraction be very well known , the comparative degree of ret frangibility of the differently coloured rays does not appear to have attracted attention in proportion to its important effects on delicate astronomical observations .
The author endeavours to point out some of the principal errors that may arise from making allowance for mean refraction without due discrimination of the kinds of colour observed .
It is evident that stars of different colours will require different corrections in observations of their altitudes .
The apparent altitude of the sun will also vary , according to the coloured glass employed in viewing its disc .
For since there must , in fact , be several images of the limb observed at small distances from each other , it becomes a matter of choice which of them shall be selected by the kind of glass used ; and it is possible , that to their cause may be , ascribed the discordance which exists between the observations of the solstices , and possibly some disagreement between different observers .
Mr. Lee also suggests , from this source , an explanation of the apparent projection of Aldebaran and other red stars upon the surface of the moon , -a phenomenon that has been frequently noticed , but not yet understood .
For if Aldebaran be nearly in contact with the upper limb , since the white light of the moon will be elevated more by refraction , it is evident that the stars may thus be made to appear within her disc a few seconds before or after contact .
The author refers to a great number of observations that he has made on Mars , Venus , and fixed stars ; from which he infers the quantity of dispersion of light to be between one sixtieth and one seventieth of the total atmospheric refraction .
He also adds several remarks on certain alterations in the mode of making astronomical observations , by which the results deduced may have been affected , especially with reference to those of Dr. Bradley ; noticing particularly the period when Hadley 's sextant came into general use , and with it the employment of glasses variously coloured , which were soon applied to other instruments .
Mr. Lee concludes with suggesting such precautions as may lead to a more correct knowledge of atmospheric refraction , hoping that the subject may be pursued by astronomers more favourably situated than himself for such an investigation .

