VII .
" Note on the Transmission of Radiant Heat through Gaseous Bodies .
" By JOHN TYNDALL , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 26 , 1859 .
Before the Royal Society terminiates its present session , I am anxious to state the nature and some of the results of an investigation in which I am now engaged .
With the exception of the celebrated memoir of M. Pouillet on Solar Radiation through the atmosphere , niothing , so far as I am aware , has been published on the traismiissioni of radiant heat through gaseous bodies .
We knoow nothing of the effect eveni of air upon heat radiated fromtv terrestrial sources .
The law of inverse squares has been proved by Melloni to be true for radiant heat passing through air , whence that eminent experimenter inferred that the absorption of such heat by the atmosphere , in a distance of 18 or 20 feet , is totally inappreciable .
With regard to the action of other gases upon heat , we are not , so far as I am aware , possessed of a single experiment .
Wishing to add to our knowledge in this important particular , I had a tube constructed , 4 feet long and 3 inches in diameter , and by means of brass terminations and suitable washers , I closed per- ' fectly the ends of the tube by polished plates of rock-salt .
Near to one of its extremities , a T-piece is attached to the tube , onxe of whose branches can be screwed to the plate of an air-pump , so as to permit the tube to be exhausted ; while the gas to be operated on is admitted through the other branch of the T.piece .
Such a tube can be made the channel of calorific rays of every quality , as the rock-salt transmits all such rays with the same facility .
I first permitted the obscure heat emanating from a source placed at one end of the tube , to pass through the latter , and fall upon a thermo-electric pile placed at its other end .
The tube contained ordinary air .
When the needle of a galvanometer connected with the pile had come to rest , the tuibe was exhauisted , but no change in the position of the needle was observed .
A similar negative result was obtained when hydrogen gas and a vacuum were coinpared .
Here I saw , however , that when a copious radiation was employed , and the needle pointed to the high degrees of the galvanometer , to cause it to move through a sensible space , a comparatively large diminution of the current would be necessary ; far larger , indeed , than the absorption of the air , if any , could produce : while if I used a feeble source , and permitted the needle to point to the lower degrees of the galvanometer , the total quantity of heat in action was so small , that the fraction of it absorbed , if any , might well be insensible .
My object then was to use powerful currents , and still keep the needle in a senlsitive position ; this was effected in the following manner:-The galvanometer made use of possessed two wires coiled side by side round the needle ; and the two extremities of each wire were connected with a separate thermo-electric pile , in such a manner that the currenits excited by heat falling upon the faces of the two piles passed in opposite directions roiund the galvanometer .
A source of heat of considerable intensity was permitted to send its rays through the tube to the pile at its opposite extremity ; the deflection of the needle was very energetic .
The second pile was now caused to approach the source of heat until its current exactly neutralized that of the other pile , and the needle descended to zero .
Here then we had two powerful forces in perfect equilibrium ; and inasmuch as the quantity of heat in action was very considerable , the absorption of a small fraction of it might be expected to produce a sensible effect upon the galvanometer-needle in its present position .
When the tube was exhausted , the balance between the equal forces was destroyed , and the current from the pile placed at the end of the tube predominated .
Hence the removal of the air had permitted a greater amount of heat to pass .
On readmitting the air , the needle again descended to zero , indicating that a portion of the radiant heat was intercepted .
Very large effects were thus obtained .
I have applied the same mode of experiment to several gases and vapours , and have , in all cases , obtained abundant proof of calorific absorption .
Gases vary considerably in their absorptive power-probably as much as liquids and solids .
Some of them allow the heat to pass through them with comparative facility , while other gases bear the same relation to the latter that alum does to other diathermanous bodies .
Different gases are thus shown to intercept radiant heat in different degrees .
I have made other experiments , which prove that the selfsame gas exercises a different action upon different qualities of radiant heat .
The investigation of the subject referred to in this Note is now in progress , and I hope at some future day to lay a full description of it before the Royal Society .

