551 The Action of Certain Drugs on the Isolated Human Uterus .
By James A. Gunn .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received March 7 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1914 .
) ( From the Pharmacological Laboratory , Oxford .
) I have elsewhere shown* that , in experiments on the isolated mammalian heart , it is perfectly possible to keep the exsected heart in cold Locke 's solution at ordinary room temperatures for hours and still to obtain powerful and regular contractions of the heart when , after this procedure , it is subsequently perfused with warm oxygenated Locke 's solution in the usual way .
Similar observations have been made on other contractile tissues and will be dealt with in another communication .
In the meantime , it is sufficient to point out that those observations open an easy way to experiments on a certain number of isolated human tissues , removed for surgical reasons , by which experiments certain questions can be answered which cannot readily , if at all , be decided in any other way .
So far as I am aware , this is the first time that pharmacological experiments of this nature on isolated human tissues have been performed , and by the simplification of technique dependent upon those observations on the survival of involuntary muscle at ordinary temperatures , a field is open for exact quantitative pharmacological experiments immediately upon those tissues , whose reaction to drugs it is the final aim of pharmacology to determine .
These experiments can be made under similar conditions to , and therefore entirely comparable with , experiments made on tissues of those mammals ordinarily used for pharmacological investigation .
One of the questions which require to be answered has regard to the nature of the sympathetic innervation of the"human uterus and its response to certain drugs .
It has been shown by Langley and Anderson-}- that the sympathetic nerve supply to the uterus of the rabbit is motor in quality , whether the uterus is in the pregnant or non-pregnant condition , and that adrenine has a similar motor effect on it .
On the other hand , it was discovered independently by Cushny , ^ DaleS , and Kehrer|| that the uterus of the cat responds to * Gunn , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 46 , p. 508 ( 1913 ) .
+ Langley and Anderson , 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 19 , p. 122 ( 1895 ; ; Langley , ibid. , vol. 27 , p. 252 ( 1901 ) .
X Cushny , 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 35 , p. 1 ( 1906 ) .
S Dale , 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 34 , p. 163 ( 1906 ) .
|| Kehrer , 'Arch , fiir Gyniikol .
, ' vol. 81 , p. 160 ( 1906 ) .
Mr. J. A. Gunn .
The Action of Certain sympathetic stimulation or to adrenine by a motor effect when pregnant , but by an inhibitor effect when non-pregnant ; in the latter case , therefore , differing from the response of the rabbit 's uterus .
It has recently been shown* that a still different type of sympathetic innervation holds good for the uterus of the rat and the guinea-pig , for in those animals adrenine inhibits the uterine contractions both when the uterus is pregnant as well as when non-pregnant .
There are , therefore , three known types of predominant sympathetic innervation of the uterus in different species of animals , as shown in the following table :\#151 ; Reaction to Adrenine .
Non-pregnant uterus .
Pregnant uterus .
Rabbit Motor .
Motor .
Cat Inhibitor .
Motor .
G-uinea-pig Inhibitor .
Inhibitor .
Now the type of innervation in the pregnant uterus of the rat and guinea-pig raises the important question , namely , what is the quality of the sympathetic innervation of the human uterus ?
Does it resemble that of the rabbit , that of the cat , or that of the guinea-pig ?
This is obviously a question of supreme importance in the use of adrenine or other sympathomimetic substances in human labour , because if the pregnant human uterus is to be relaxed by those drugs ( as is the pregnant uterus of the rat or guinea-pig ) then the employment of them in inertia uteri or in post-partum haemorrhage is not only valueless but definitely dangerous .
Though the kindness of Drs. Whitelocke and Dodds-Parker , Surgeons to the Badcliffe Infirmary , Oxford , I have been able to obtain sufficient material to satisfy at least part of this inquiry .
The former gave me the uterus and a Fallopian tube from one case , and Fallopian tubes from two other cases ; and the latter a Fallopian tube from one case .
The organs were removed from surgical necessities .
As soon as they were removed , they were put into cold Locke 's solution and conveyed to the laboratory .
There they were put into a bath of Locke 's solution , oxygenated and at a temperature of 37 ' , and the movements recorded , the method employed being the now familiar method used for isolated mammalian organs and first used for the uterus by Kelirer .
The isolated human Fallopian tube , when put into warm oxygenated saline solution , almost immediately executes rhythmical movements , not in any * Gunn and Gunn , 'Journ .
of Pharmacol .
' ( 1914 ) .
Drugs on the Isolated Human Uterus .
decided way dissimilar from the contractions of the isolated uteri of ordinary experimental mammals under similar conditions of experiment .
Indeed the readiness with which the human Fallopian tube passes into rhythmical contraction makes it clear to me , after experience of other rhythmically contractile tissues under the same conditions , that the Fallopian tube possesses a high degree of spontaneous rhythmicity .
Several experiments which have been made have shown conclusively that adrenine has a powerful motor effect on the human Fallopian tube .
The effect of adrenine is shown in fig. 1 ; in this case it produced a rise of tonus with conversion of slower rhythmic contractions into more rapid smaller ones .
Fig. 2 is shown because it illustrates ( 1 ) what I have found in four experiments , the somewhat surprising fact that pituitrin has no pronounced effect on the human Fallopian tube ; ( 2 ) because it shows the continued vitality of the organ after it had remained for 30 hours in cold Locke 's solution , and the still normal response to epinine .
That the vitality of the uterus is great under certain conditions of keeping is a fact of which I was previously aware , because from unpublished experiments made in this laboratory in conjunction with Dr. Hudston , it was found that , after the guinea-pig 's uterus had been kept in Locke 's solution , at temperatures of from 3 to 7 ' C. , it still may execute rhythmic movements when placed in warm oxygenated Locke 's solution , after having remained quiescent at the low temperature for as long a period as seven days .
In regard to the uterus proper I have as yet obtained only one for experiment .
This uterus was removed from a patient , non-pregnant and about 40 years of age .
The uterus was removed for disease of one Fallopian tube along with a partial fibroid condition of the uterus itself .
The other Fallopian tube and part of the uterus was apparently healthy .
The latter was cut into strips and tested in the usual way .
The rhythmic movements of the uterine strips were much slower and more infrequent than those of the Fallopian tubes .
Fig. 3 shows the effect of adrenine 1 in 250,000 on a strip of uterine muscle .
The strip had shown contractions lasting from about 30 to 60 seconds at intervals of from 3 to 5 minutes .
At the end of one of those contractions adrenine was added to the bath ( fig. 3 ) .
This produced a strong tonic contraction with production of superimposed smaller waves .
Other strips which were tested gave a similar result .
It was interesting to compare , for further guidance , the effect of the same concentration of adrenine on the Fallopian tube belonging to the same uterus .
Fig. 4 shows the result obtained .
Adrenine in 500.000 Epinine I in 50,000 i^tte imiti trafei I !
ilwiT Fig. 1.\#151 ; Isolated Human Fallopian Tube .
Showing Motor Effect of Adrenine .
Contraction recorded upwards in this and following tracings .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Isolated Human Fallopian Tube , 30 hours after removal .
Showing Negative Effect of Pituitrin and Motor Effect of Epinine .
554 Mr. J. A. Gunn .
The Action of Certain Drugs on the Isolated Human Utemis .
It is clear from these experiments that adrenine has a powerful motor action on the non-pregnant human uterus and Fallopian tube .
The presumption is , therefore , that the sympathetic nerve supply to it is motor in quality .
Pituitrin decidedly stimulates the contraction of a strip of human uterus as shown in Fig. 5 .
The effect is produced much less promptly than the Fig. 4.\#151 ; Isolated Human Fallopian Tube from same Uterus used in fig. 3 .
4 Pituitnn I in 400 Fig. 5.\#151 ; Isolated Strip of Human Non-pregnant Uterus .
Showing Motor Effect of Pituitrin .
effect of adrenine .
No such pronounced effect could be obtained on the Fallopian tube belonging to the same uterus , the addition first of pituitrin 1 in 800 and then 1 in 400 having no effect in 15 minutes , whereas the subsequent addition of adrenine 1 in 250,000 produced immediately powerful and enduring contractions .
The negative effect of pituitrin on the tube is an unexpected result , seeing that the musculature of the tube is continuous with that of the uterus proper .
It suggests that deductions cannot be drawn from experiments on the Fallopian tube alone to embrace the uterus proper .
It has not been possible yet to secure for experiment a pregnant human uterus , which is of course rarely removed .
Unless , however , the human uterus has a still different type of sympathetic innervation from that of all the animals which have been examined , the probability is that adrenine will have 556 Prof. B. Moore .
Presence of Inorganic Iron a motor effect on the pregnant human uterus , and that , therefore , the use of sympathomimetic substances in labour is justified .
Summary .
The movements have been recorded of the isolated non-pregnant human uterus and Fallopian tube .
Adrenine has a powerful motor action on both these organs .
The deduction is drawn that this is the qualitative effect of sympathetic innervation of the human uterus , at least when non-pregnant .
Pituitrin also stimulates the human uterus proper to contraction , but no such effect has been definitely obtained on the Fallopian tube .
The Presence of Inorganic Iron Compounds in the Chloroplasts of the Green Cells of Plants , considered in Relationship to Natural Photo-synthesis and the Origin of Life .
By Benjamin Moore , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Biochemistry , University of Liverpool .
( Received March 11 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1914 .
) ( From the Johnston Biochemical Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) It has been demonstrated by Moore and Webster* that colloidal solutions , or suspensions , of salts or oxides of iron , in presence of dissolved carbon dioxide and with the energy supply of sunlight , possess the power of synthesising formaldehyde .
Since this is known to be the first step in the process of organic synthesis of the substance of all living plants and animals from inorganic material and must , moreover , have occurred in past ages over immense areas of the earth 's surface before life began to exist on the planet , the conclusion was drawn that life must have originated by continual development of more and more complex organic substances from this simple commencement .
It is in this first stage of all that the greatest production of chemical energy occurs , and accordingly a transformer of light energy into chemical energy is essential .
Although the more highly organised carbohydrates and proteins still require catalysts for their synthesis , weight for weight they contain scarcely any greater storage of chemical energy than formaldehyde , * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc.,5 B , vol. 87 , p. 163 ( 1913 ) .

