" Spectroscopic Observations of the Solar Prominences , being Extracts from a Letter addressed to Sir J. F.W. HERSCHEL , Bart. , F.R.S. , by Captain HERSCHEL , R.E. , dated 'Bangalore , June 12th and 15th , 1869* .
" ' Communicated by Sir J. HERSCHEL .
Received July 19 , 1869 .
I have too little time to devote to lengthy descriptions , and so I send you a sketch of what I saw this morning ( fig. 1 ) .
I have seen many such views during the last month , but none so distinct in outline as to-day more by token I have been waiting many days for sunshine since I brought my apparatus to its present state .
I can only devote a single morning hour to it ( before breakfast ) , but I make a little advance every day .
The dark band across is a slit-image corresponding to C ( aperture about 1 ' ) .
Through the slit , as through a screen , is seen the monochromatic image of the " chroFig .
1 .
mosphere , " a continuous envelope , which may be seen of nearly the same width everywhere .
I estimate it at 20 " to 30 " .
Through the slit comes also a segment of the true limb , whose light is scattered up and down .
It is wanting in C-light , and therefore within the C-image of the slit is seen a dark segment of the sun 's limb , an inversion which nothing but " luminology " can enable one to understand .
There are two classes of solar cloud* represented here ; viz. the fleecy and the well defined : in both cases I have taken the liberty of seeing round the corner ( so to speak ) , and giving the whole form as it might be seen by slightly pressing on the tube .
With this exception , and a like one due to my having ( to avoid confusion ) retained a slightly stronger definition in the central parts than one actually obtains when so much of the limb is seen , there is , I believe , no exaggerationt .
The whole picture , of course , is to be supposed seen on a background of pretty strong solar spectrum ; and the vertical streaky light is to be supposed just short of dazzling-as strong , in fact , as the eye can bear without losing its power of distinguishing relative intensities .
A large group of spots ( of which more anon ) was visible just within the limb yesterday , but was not traceable to-day ; it must have gone off near those horns .
The universality of the hydrogen envelope , now beyond dispute , would account satisfactorily for the dark C and F lines in solar light ; and one might well rest content there ; but the i ( bright ) line is as persistent in this envelope as a and P ( C and F ) ; yet there is no trace of any absorptionline , corresponding to a , in the solar light .
The discrepancy between fact and theory covers something radical .
What that may he remains to be discovered .
[ The position of B is 1015 3 ( K ) '8 .
] On the 10th I remarked ( and observed till perfectly certain ) that the Cline on the disk varied sensibly in strength ; and at one place , which , I believe , corresponded to the penumbra of a spot-group , near the limb there was a total absence of the line , and a strong suspicion of a reversal ( fig. 2 ) .
Fig. 2 .
Faculae were noticed round about , / especially between the group and limb ; but there was nothing of the kind visible where the hiatus in ... .7 ... .the C-line seemed to indicate .
The / hiatus extended , as did also the suspected bright part within the spotsp .
( a ) .
The observation was repeated on __ the 11 lth ( yesterday ) with the same result , except that the brig , t part of the line was not noticed .
To-day ( the 12th ) the spot was round the corner .
On no other spot examined was anything so decided seen , but the suppression of the dark line has been more than suspected elsewhere .
sLastly , I detected to-day , and put beyoncl doubt , that the bright accumulations on the disk ( which I believe are the so-called " factrie " ) give a continuous spectrum !
I first noticed that every now and then there were bright streaks up and down the spectrum as the slit passed over the disk ( or vice versad ) .
It is no easy .
thing in general to identify certainly the exact source of light whose spectrum you see ; but in one case I had a spot near the limb , and one of these luminous streaks between the two ; so , knowing the direction of the slit , it was easy , on removing the spectroscope , to determine precisely from what point of the disk the light in question emanated .
In this case it was clear that it proceeded from a facula in that region .
I do not pretend to speculate on the constitution of the sun 's surface , but here are three facts which require explanation:(1 ) A luminous line in the envelope corresponds with no visible line of absorption in the solar spectrum .
( 2 ) The absorption is absent in an ( apparently ) penumbral region , ( 3 ) The facula spectrum is an intensified solar spectrum .
June 15th .
A Number of ' Scientific Opinion ' has just been lent me , in which I see a oticeof apaper , " A fourth communication by Mr. N , Lockyer " to the Royal Society .
It tells me ( what I might have expected ) that I am just two months behind in all that I am seeing .
I-owever that may be , the 64 sights themselves are so beautiful and interesting that no other incentive is needed .
This morning I showed a magnificent prominence upwards of 3 ' in height ; and she testifies that my sketches do not do them justice .
The instrument I am now using is the Royal Society 's spectroscope as fitted up for the eclipse ; but I have increased the dispersion nearly threefold by inserting four compound prisms ( extracted from the hand-spectroscopes ) .
These amount to 7 inches of glass and sixteen surfaces ; so you may imagine that there is some loss of light and definition .
I have also had to shorten the focal distance ( and therefore diminish the magnifyingpower ) by interposing a hand-telescope 's object-glass-an additional obstruction and complication .
I lost a great deal of fine weather ( of which I get very little now ) while trying to perfect this arrangement .
I can still further increase the dispersion ( without much loss of definition for monochromatic light ) by turning the main prism , and so departing from the position of minimum deviation .
But this is a resource which I keep to go on with when I tire of the advantage I have gained already .
The long train of compound prisms ( as at present arranged ) unfortunately bars me from the violet end of the spectrum .
This is unfortunate , as it would be in the highest degree interesting to compare the a and y images .
Some day I shall get impatient , pull the whole affair to pieces , and arrange afresh with this object .
As it is , I have to be very chary of quitting beaten ground , as we boast of no instrument-makers here !
I wish I had time to write fully and connectedly on the subject .
It is only necessary to put people on the track .
It is one easily followed , and will amply repay any expenditure in arranging prisms to get a maximum dispersion , for there is any amount of light .

