314 Prof. J. T. Wilson and Mr. J. P. Hill .
[ Jan. 21 I i imitrv e K not and Parly Oastrulation Cavity co-existing wit 11 Independent Primitive Streak in By I lofessoi J. P. M ilson , M.D. , and J. P. Hill , I).Sc .
, University of Sydney .
Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes F.RS .
Received January 21 , \#151 ; Read February 12 , 1903 .
Amongst the material at our disposal for the investigation of the earlier stages in the development of the Monotremes is an egg of Ornithorhynchus , measuring 10 x 9'5 mm. The stage of development represented by this egg is of such interest and importance that we have deemed it deserving of a brief preliminary communication .
The stage of embryonic organisation would appear to fit in as immediately succeeding the oldest of the early embryos described by Semon , * viz. , his " Ee " ( fig. 15 , Taf .
8 ) .
His " E7 " appears , indeed , to have been older than " Eg , " but with the exception of one figure ( fig. 39 , Taf .
9 ) representing the structure of the extra-embryonic blastoderm , Semon gives no indication of the conditions met with in that ovum .
This is the more to be regretted , as we see reason to believe that " E7 " must have corresponded pretty closely with the stage now to be described .
Semon notes that the embryonic area of this egg was injured through an unfortunate accident .
The general structural arrangements of the Monotreme ovum in its early stages of development have been described and figured by Semon .
In all the stages dealt with by him , illustrating the development from segmentation up to the first indications of gastrulation , the yolk had retained its original arrangement as a tolerably coherent solid or semi-solid spheroidal mass with alternating strata of white and yellow yolk-spheres .
As he states , however , the egg in the course of further development increases considerably in size during its sojourn in the uterus through absorption of fluid .
By this process of fluid absorption , the yolk-mass is disintegrated and its spherules 'disseminated throughout the interior of the growing blastodermic vesicle , though many of them remain adherent to the deep surface of the blastodermic membrane .
This conversion of the solid or semi-solid yolk-mass into , the fluid contents of a large blastodermic vesicle renders the investigation of the structure of the blastoderm , from the period of the commencement of gastrulation up to the formation of a distinct embryo , an exceedingly difficult one .
The loss of Semon 's " E7 " may very likely be attributable to such difficulties in the way of manipulation as we have encountered in dealing with a delicate blastodermic membrane surrounded by a thick , tough , and opaque shell as well as a vitelline * Semon , R. , ' Zool. Forschungsreisen , ' \amp ; c. , Bd .
2 , Lief .
1 ( 1894 ) .
1903 .
] Primitive Knot , etc. , iOrnithorhynchus .
315 membrane , and distended by a considerable bulk of fluid material .
It is quite impossible to remove the shell without serious damage to the delicate blastoderm .
Fixation with the shell intact is imperative , and , as a matter of fact , the result in the way of preservation proves quite satisfactory , as evidenced by the condition of the cellular blastoderm , in which mitotic figures are well preserved .
But even after fixation , the opening up of the ovum is attended with no little risk .
The inevitable evacuation of the contained fluid allows of crumpling of the blastodermic membrane with possibility of injury to the embryonic area .
It is impossible , owing to its size and osmotic difficulties , to treat the ovum throughout unopened .
Even were that course practicable , the impossibility of orientation would be an insuperable difficulty .
After fixation and subsequent dehydration in graded alcohols , the 10 mm. egg was cleared in origanum oil and opened .
The blastoderm still remaining in situ in relation to the shell was examined from the interior aspect , and was found to possess at one spot a small more opaque area , somewhat oblong , but rather irregular .
The portion of the blastoderm containing this small opaque patch was photographed by transmitted light at a magnification of 6'5 diameters for the purpose of orientation .
Our surmise that the area in question was of the nature of an embryonic or primitive knot was afterwards confirmed by the examination of serial sections .
No differentiation in way of an embryonic area in the wider sense is recognisable in the photograph , nor was any such discovered in the course of examination of the wall of the blastodermic vesicle toto under low magnification .
We naturally concluded that the very evident knot represented the earliest and only differentiated area , and for a time devoted our attention solely to this area and the blastoderm in its vicinity .
The portion of the blastoderm containing the knot was separated from the remainder of the wall of the vesicle , and was then imbedded and cut in serial sections , Examination of these did in fact show that in the neighbourhood of the knot , and for some distance from it , the wall of the vesicle was destitute of any indication of further differentiation .
But towards the periphery of the portion sectioned and comparatively remote ( nearly 2 mm. ) from the knot , itself , we found the commencement of a region of thickened ectoderm with underlying mesoderm .
Our attention thus being directed to other manifestations of developmental activity in the blastoderm in addition to the primitive knot , we found , in the portion of the vesicular wall originally put aside , a quite extensive area showing important changes .
These amount to no less than the establishment , quite away from the region of the knot , of a distinct linear primitive streak formation , surrounded by an area over which the ectodermal iProf .
J. T. Wilson and Mr. J. P. Hill .
[ Jan. 21 , layer is thickened and cubical , and within which a mesodermal sheet has already undergone a wide extension .
It is peculiarly unfortunate that , owing partly to the difficulty of dealing with the delicate and originally collapsed and torn vesicular wall after the cutting open of the egg , partly to the failure to detect any visible differentiation apart from the knot , and our consequent conviction that the latter was the sole trace of embryonic organisation yet present , the orientation of the distinct portions into which the vesicle was separated was not adequately determined and preserved .
It thus became impossible for us to guarantee that the planes of sectioning of the remaining portions should be accurately co-ordinated with each other , or with that of the important piece first sectioned .
This failure , not wholly blameworthy , when the conditions of the task are appreciated , has introduced an element of conjecture into our subsequent attempt to determine the precise relation to the knot of the primitive streak area , of whose existence we later on became aware .
Nevertheless , we think that we shall be able to establish these relations with at least a high degree of probability .
In this preliminary paper we propose to restrict ourselves to an account of the highly interesting area which first attracted our attention , and which we have already referred to as a " primitive knot .
" It will , we think , be admitted that no possible doubt can be entertained of the justice of employing for its designation a term which would stamp it as the homologue of the well-known structure in many Sauropsida to which the same name has been applied .
It is a true primitive or gastrula knot , in the Sauropsidan sense , possessing a transversely elongated gastrula-mouth or blastopore and an invagination cavity , which both in appearance and minute structure resembles in the closest manner the structure described under these names in various Reptilian forms .
But if this be admitted , we come face to face with this extraordinary fact that , in addition to this reptilian-like gastrula , there is to be found in Ornithorhynchus , quite distinct and even remote from this gastrula knot , a region in which there is being differentiated independently a primitive streak of quite ordinary and typical mammalian character .
The oblong portion of the wall of the vesicle containing the primitive knot near its centre , and measuring about 8 x 10 mm. , was left adhering to the portion of the shell covering it .
The direct observation and photography of the piece were thus confined to its deep aspect so as to avoid undue disturbance and injury .
The whole piece was then double imbedded in photoxylin and paraffin and cut into serial sections 10 micra thick .
The sections were stained in hsematein and eosin .
The plane of section chosen was approximately at right angles to Primitive Knot , etc. , in Ornithorhynclius .
1903 .
] the larger diameter of the embryonic knot , and parallel to its presumable axis , on the supposition that a clear spot near one of its margins represented the position of the gastrula opening or blastopore , thus determining the true posterior margin of the knot .
Examination of the series did ultimately show that the sections were approximately longitudinal sections through the gastrula cavity .
The general character of the egg at the stage under consideration must be briefly referred to .
At the period now dealt with , the formerly yolk-laden ovum has become transformed into a large blastodermic vesicle with fluid contents , amongst which are large numbers of dispersed yolk-spheres of the original yolk-mass .
One can , without hesitation , homologise the interior of the vesicle with the subgerminal cavity of a Sauropsidan egg , extended so as to include by liquefaction the whole of the yolk itself .
Ornithorhynchus indeed may be said to afford an actual demonstration of the transformation of a Sauropsidan subgerminal cavity , such as is figured in its first beginnings in Semon 's figures 36 and 38 of his " 03 , " into the cavity of a mammalian blastodermic vesicle , thus supporting Keibel 's view of the correspondence of these cavities .
The establishment of the vesicular stage has been effected by the extension of the cellular blastoderm completely around the yolk , a condition representing a considerable advance on that existing in Semon 's figures " E5 " and " 03 .
" He does not record the condition in this respect of his " Eo .
" He was also unable fully to determine the condition of " E7 " in this respect .
We believe that the latter must have been very similar to our present stage , judging from the figure he gives of a portion of the extra-embryonic blastoderm .
Not only is the cellular wall of the blastodermic vesicle complete in our specimen , but it is already bilaminar throughout , and trilaminar over a not inconsiderable area .
A complete layer of yolk-entoderm ( " secondary " entoderm ) has been differentiated lining the cavity , except under the small area of the primitive knot , with whose tissue it is continuous .
The yolk-entoderm cells are large and swollen , being distended by yolk-spheres of various sizes and somewhat different staining capacities .
Owing to their yolk-laden character their protoplasmic contents are relatively greatly reduced .
The nuclei are , as a rule , large and vesicular .
In the least successful sections the entoderm cells may be broken up and more difficult of recognition .
We are firmly convinced that it is owing to the imperfection of the section shown in Semon 's figure 39 from his " E- " that such a careful observer has been unable to recognise the yolk-entoderm as such , and figures it as a zone of vacuolated coagulum next the surface of the yolk .
The imperfect layer of angular-looking cells which he figures and regards as the entoderm in " E- " is not really such , but forms an intermediate layer of mesodermal cells .
Prof. J. T. Wilson and Mr. J. P. Hill .
[ Jan. 21 , This layer of mesoderm is well represented in the stage under description .
But it by no means extends throughout the whole extent of the blastodermic vesicle , nor is it met with at all at or in the immediate vicinity of the primitive knot .
It is found most fully developed in and around the primitive streak area , and here it is continuous with the ectodermal thickening of the primitive streak ( i.e. , paraxially ) , where it attains greater thickness and consists of several layers of cells .
Outwards from the line of the primitive streak* it thins out gradually into a single layer , and further out becomes patchy and incomplete .
It is throughout distinct and independent of the underlying yolk-entoderm , which can be followed through the whole wall of the vesicle .
We have several preparations of small portions of the wall of the vesicle stained and mounted intoto , which give clear demonstration of the huge yolk-laden entoderm cells forming a continuous lining of the vesicle wall , precisely as figured by Hill and Martin f in a considerably later stage .
The ectoderm of the vesicle wall throughout the greater part of its extent forms a membrane consisting of very thin flattened cells closely applied to the vitelline membrane .
This character it retains in the vicinity and over a portion of the primitive knot .
But over the region already referred to as the primitive sti'eak area , remote from ( posterior to ) the primitive knot and extending outwards so as to be practically co-extensive with the mesoderm of this area , the ectoderm shows a marked change in character .
Here its cells are no longer flattened and squamous , but thickened and cubical , and here also their developmental activity is often betrayed by the existence of frequent mitotic figures .
In the posterior part of the primitive streak thickening , the cubical ectoderm gradually becomes more attenuated , the mesoderm still continuing beneath it for some distance , even after the " extra-embryonic " character of the ectoderm is assumed .
We now come to the " primitive knot " itself , whose occurrence and characters it is the special object of this brief paper to record .
The oblong area of the blastoderm constituting the knot measured 0-42 mm. in one diameter ( antero-posterior axis of gastrula ) and 049 mm. in the other diameter ( transverse ) .
It is therefore comparable in general form with the area from an Echidna egg ( E , ; ) figured by Semon in his fig. 15 ( loc. cit.).Unfortunately Semon gives no clue to the magnification of this figure , which is on a different scale to the other illustrations .
One cannot therefore compare the area of E(i * The plane of section through the primitive streak area of the vesicle wall , though its orientation was determined in rather haphazard fashion in default of any visible guide , is obviously approximately transverse to the axis of the primitive streak , showing the characteristic bilateral symmetry of organisation of this important region .
f Hill and Martin , " On a Platypus Embryo from the Intra-uterine Egg , " ' Proc. Linn. Soc. , N.S.W. , ' vol. 10 , figs. 31\#151 ; 33 .
1903 .
] Primitive Knot , etc. , iOrnithorhynchus .
319 in size with that now described .
It is to be regretted that Semon 's specimen was lost through accident , so that no further comparison can be instituted .
There is , however , a general resemblance between fig. 15 of Semon 's E\lt ; j and his figs. 14 and 18 showing areas from other eggs of Echidna ( E5 ) and Ornithorhynchus ( 03 ) .
The dimensions of these can be calculated and are both found somewhat to exceed those of our primitive knot , in spite of their relatively younger ages .
It is therefore difficult to say to what extent the areas referred to ( of E\lt ; 5 and E5 and 03 ) correspond to our primitive knot .
We are , however , of opinion , that Eg , though probably younger , must have pretty closely corresponded , and there can be little doubt but that the centre of the other areas , at least , is later on developed into an actual primitive knot .
The sectional figure of 03 shown in fig. 38 , interpreted by Semon as showing the commencement of gastrulation , may possibly bear this interpretation , but we cannot feel satisfied that the granular coagulum layer between the cellular layer and the surface of the yolk shown in this figure has been adequately interpreted , especially in view of our complete conviction that in fig. 39 the layer represented in somewhat similar fashion is beyond all doubt really yolk-entoderm .
We do not wish to be taken as suggesting that here in 03 the coagulum represents differentiated yolk-entoderm .
We are simply not convinced beyond all doubt that all the formed cell elements of this area in 03 are disposed in the form of a superficial continuous membrane as shown in fig. 38 , more especially in view of the totally different condition of the nearly related stage E5 , as illustrated in the sectional fig. 33 , and of the condition described below in our own somewhat later stage in Ornithorhynchus .
The general form of the embryonic knot has already been noted .
A schematic surface projection of its outline is shown in fig. 1 .
This Fig. 1 .
pr.k .
\--- figure represents a plane reconstruction of the area of the knot , compiled from the serial antero-posterior sections through the region .
One of the more typical of these sections is also figured semidiagra320 Prof. J. T. Wilson and Mr. J. P. Hill .
[ Jan. 21 , matically in fig. 2 .
More adequate illustration by photomicrography and otherwise will be forthcoming in a future communication .
Fig. 2 .
bi .
' \a.i.bb . .
' *i l* y-sPh- nuc .
In mesial section , the knot is seen to form a thick and prominent lenticular mass ] projecting into the cavity of the blastodermic vesicle .
It is largely composed of a loose reticular tissue in which nuclei are only sparsely distributed and cell outlines are for the most part invisible .
This tissue is thickly dotted with minute yolk-spherules and small vacuoles , and is not limited towards the cavity of the vesicle *by any very sharp or clear-cut boundary .
This reticulum of the knot is continuous peripherally with the yolk-entoderm of the bilaminar blastoderm around the knot .
Penetrating the interior of the knot is the archenteric or gastrula-cavity , opening on the surface at the blastoporic aperture near the hinder part of the knot and appearing in sagittal section as a curved canal passing from the blastopore at first deeply , and then forwards , to end blindly in the more anterior part of the knot .
This cavity is lined throughout by a very definite cellular wall .
Both in front of and behind the knot , the blastoderm is simply bilaminar , with thin ectoderm closely applied to the deep surface of the vitelline membrane .
The entodermal cells are large and contain yolk-spherules of varying size and staining reaction and loose yolk-spheres are also found adherent to its deep surface .
The thin ectoderm is continued over the knot from the region in 1903 .
] Primitive Knot , etc. , Ornithorhynchus .
321 front without change of character as far as the transversely elongated blastopore seen in fig. 1 and in section in fig. 2 .
Thence it is continued round the anterior lip of the blastopore so as to line the roof of the blastoporic ( archenteric ) canal or gastrula-cavity .
Posteriorly to the knot the thin ectoderm is continued forwards , but on reaching the posterior edge of the knot , its cells lose their markedly flattened character , and become continuous with a mass of cuboidal or even rounded cells , which forms the prominence of the posterior lip of the blastopore .
The superficial cells of this mass do not , however , wholly surrender their epithelial arrangement , and are continued forwards in the hinder wall and floor of the gastrula-cavity to complete the cellular lining of this cavity .
This cellular lining consists , for the greater part of its extent , of large and cuboidal cells , but in the hinder part of the roof , and extending from this upwards around the anterior lip of the blastopore , the cells are more flattened , ultimately becoming continuous with the thin ectoderm overlying the anterior part of the knot .
Figs. 1 and 2 together enable one to realise the form of the gastrula-cavity as a wide , but dorso-ventrally flattened cavity opening posteriorly by a transversely-elongated blastoporic aperture .
The posterior lip of the blastopore is formed by a mass of cells which , if not wholly indifferent , at least show a less clear differentiation into superficial and deep than is found elsewhere .
As was indicated at the outset , the resemblance between the primitive knot in Ornithorhynchus and that found in a number of reptilian forms is very striking .
We would particularly draw attention to the figures by Mitsukuri* of the primitive knot in Chelonia , and more especially to his figs. 9 and 13 on Plate 8 , which show a remarkable similarity to the condition here described , in all essential features .
In Ornithorhynchus we lack entirely the columnar arrangement of the ectoderm over the knot , and the anterior lip of the blastopore there shown , otherwise the characters both of the knot and of the gastrula-cavity and its wall appear to lie almost identical with those figured , especially in Mitsukuri 's fig. 9 , Plate 8 .
In a future more extended communication we hope to illustrate more adequately the points above set forth , and in addition to add something in the way of elucidation of the fate of the primitive knot in somewhat later stages .
We propose also to describe and illustrate the condition of the primitive streak area , which at the period now dealt with already co-exists with , though independently of , the primitive knot , but which later by extension comes into more intimate relationship with the knot .
* K. Mitsukuri , " On the Process of Gastrulation in the Chelonia , " ' Journ. Coll. Sei .
, Japan , ' vol. 6 .
Cf .
also Gertrude C. Davenport , * Iv a deli lie Coll. Monograph , ' No , 8 .
Boston , 1896 .
Dendy , ' Qu .
Jl .
Micro .
, Sci. , ' vol. 42 , p. 18 , 1899 .
VOL. LXX1 .
2 A Prof. G. Elliot Smith .
[ Jan. 15 , The mere fact of its co-existence at this stage with the knot , necessarily occasions some reconsideration of the morphological relationship of the mammalian primitive streak to the process of gastrulation .
" The Brain of the Archseoceti " * By G. Elliot Smith , M.A. , M.D. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge , Professor of Anatomy , Egyptian Government School of Medicine , Cairo .
Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes , LL. D. , D.Se .
, F.B.S. Be-ceived January 15 , \#151 ; Bead February 12 , 1903 .
So far as I have been able to ascertain , nothing whatever is known of the form of the brain or , more strictly , of the cranial cavity in the Archseoceti .
Hence no apology is needed for presenting even this imperfect account of two cranial casts representative of this sub-order , which have come into my hands .
Among the Eocene remains found in the Fayfim region of the Egyptian desert by Mr. H. J. L. Beadnell and Dr. Charles W. Andrews , in 1901 , there was a broken skull of t from which it was possible to obtain a mould , representing the form of the greater part of the dorsal and lateral aspects of the brain .
A plaster cast was made in the British Museum at the instance of Dr. Andrews , who kindly placed it at my disposal for description .
In the following winter ( 1902 ) , Mr. Beadnell found in the same locality a natural cranial cast of the same size and general form as the artificial cast of Zeuglodon .
It is obvious at a glance , if the two specimens be placed side by side , that the natural mould belongs to some member of the Archseoceti , but whether to the same species or even genus as the other specimen must at present remain an open question .
Mr. Beadnell kindly placed this specimen at my disposal .
The size and relative proportions of the different parts are almost identical in the two casts .
Nevertheless , there are a considerable number of differences , some features being displayed in one and not in the other , and vice versed .
Many of these differences are obviously due to the imperfections of the casts , and especially to the failure of the plaster mould to represent the true form of the brain .
But there are # These notes were originally intended for the Report on the Survey of the Fay urn , to be issued by the Egyptian Survey Department , and are now published separately with the permission of the Under Secretary of State for Public Works and Captain H. Gr .
Lyons , Director-General of the Survey Department .
+ C. W. Andrews , " Extinct Vertebrates from Egypt , " Part II .
( Extracted from the ' Geological Magazine , ' N.S. , Decade IV , vol. 8,1901 , p. 437 , \#151 ; Zeuglodon Osiris , Dames ' .
)

