]\gt ; 1878 .
] On the relative " " of Pro \ldquo ; have still hesitated to mention this , as I have been hoping for of power which would 1 ave cnabled me to ccrtajn point .
My apcrture inches is llot to put he beyond all doubt .
As , owever , the question has been raised , it is better state attempt and its result , and to ask others with greater optical to search for the lines ; the precaution to use ical lcns close to , and not ppIy it to the instrument until to be examined are absolutely in focus on the ] , if a slit is .
It is possible scintillation may hclp matters .
the tive Facility of Production ' of Chcmical By .
C. BRODIE , Bart. , D.C.L. , Received Novembel 21 , 1877 .
( Plate 4 .
) A which cannot fail to imprcss the of chcmistry is the extrcme paucity of substances .
cominations of which he can are innumerable , but thosc are }ling from ) and , making the fullest allowance for human incapacity , it yet that there are natural facilities and natural obstacles in the } of king cel.tain compounds }which adcpcndent of skill power .
It is my objcct to show that among these is to be reckoned elative of production\ldquo ; of chemical which the tical 1 of tion which are hercnt in ature of combination and unaltcrable .
By this I tho relative cility with hich the ullits of ttcl may be nnd lo to the relation of these units to the ) ' kinds of the } ) } of which they up ; oposc consider in way , if any , this " " ion \ldquo ; is connected with these .
Is ir mnttcr theory , there arises from the production of one compound than of do stand 011 salllC levcl and , furthcr , docs expcriencc tal of In ( on the Calculus of Chcm i ) ions .
] ullit of every ) to bc Cconsbituted by performance of the upon the unit of spacc , also lysis of every chclnicl cllt to ) * , part , 1 ) .
3 .
cit. , p. 115 .
Sir B. Brodie on the relative [ Jan. 24 , cIusion that chemical events occur by the transference to and fro among the units of matter and space of certain portions of matter .
, . . .
, there termed ] weights , which are the results of the performance of the operations , . . .
; the same uIlit therefore may be constructed in various ways corresponding to tbo rences in order in which these simple ' are transferred so as to build up the same unit of matter .
Some explanation is necessary on this point .
There is nothing in the of combination ( and hese alone we are now ) from which we can infer the pel.formance of any one of these operations taken singly to be essentially easier or more difficult than the performance of any other ; that is say , the facility of unit is the same as of constructing the unit ; but when we consider combinations of more one operation the case is diffcrent .
combinations of opcrations and taken two and there arc , and ; the is is the unit of water , and the unit of .
Now , here is only one way in which the unit .
can be produced , namely by the successive formance of two erations .
Similiarly , there is only one way in may be produced .
But there are two ways in which the ullit be produced , mely by first performing the operation on the unit of space and then the tion a , in which case hc unit is the result ; and also by fir , st the operation and then the operation , which in the combinntion These two results ( so far as our prcsent posc is conccl.ned ) are identical , as follows from the commutave demonstrated in Part I. * We hence say " " facility of oduction \ldquo ; of the unil is twice that of the } units .
The { ernary combinations of and are , and and are ) is the unit of binoxidc of , and is the uuit of ozolle .
On principles the respective " " cility of ction \ldquo ; of these units . .
1 . . .
3 . .
3 . .
1 .
, the lcrnary colmbinations of the operations and are unknown ; , the of amnlonis ; , the unit of llitrogen ; , unkno$vn .
pective " " facilitics production ' ' of these units . .
1 . . .
3 a . .
3 . .
1 .
* ' ' Phil. ) \ldquo ; , lS76 , p. 796 .
1878 .
] " " Fncility ' of " " of Chemical Combinations .
nilarly , the " " facility of production \ldquo ; of the unit of the carbotl valerylonc is to the " " facility of \ldquo ; of hydrocarbon benzellc as 126 to 84 .
The mcnsure of the " " acility0 roduction \ldquo ; of a unit of tter b in all nllmber which cxpresses the different ways which t operations may bc permuted by that ullit is made .
It is to observe the rison which is here effected is the " " facility of \ldquo ; of the units of homogeneous s.ubstances , namely units lly composed of the same lumbe of slmple weights .
we the " " fttcility of oduction " " of valerylene and benzcn , but we have no means of this compttrison behe ullit } and the unit of propylene } That " " facility of tion \ldquo ; is alnong tauscs w death existence of certnin units of to exclusion of others rdly be denied , ns a slJeculative truth , by anyone that units built up simple in mannel described , bnt the action of this cause so veiled from action of other causes , that we ht be ) ] detcct it the isolation of its effects .
The ion of a scienih theory is effected by results indicnted the nctunl resuIts of pericnce , no be reo{a un less it can the test of this ison .
The -stom of ntiollS in csenk illCG lends itself most re dily to this verification is the of rbons .
This vstcm c some cotubinations , limited as the full nent of the object in is yet extcllsive composition , too , the units of the system is well The scous density of the ocarbon b , in OtlS tained by , and , where this is not the determined by ally of a { ctel* Bcfore further , 1 -ill ve list of hc to considcled , their of refcl.ellCC , accordinrro to the powers of ullit of \ldquo ; ctct to it 1 1 be I the in illlo stiou groatest carc .
Sir B. Brodie on the relative unit of benzene .
, , phenylacetylene .
, , propane .
, , butylenc .
, , valcrylcne .
, , cinllamelle .
, , phthalelle .
, , ille n ' , , , , amylcne .
, , diallyl .
, , vlcllc .
, , , , , , , , fluorCllG .
, , racene .
, , pyrcne .
, , , hex lene .
, , nthylidcllG .
, cumelle .
, , phenylbutcne .
, , phthalellG .
, , diphcnylmethallG .
, .
, , allthracenc .
, lrysclle .
, , , , lidene .
, cvnlGllG .
, , toluene .
, , dimcthy , , unit of diphenylbenzene .
, , dinaphthyl .
, idrialill .
, , , octylenc .
, , terpenc .
, , amylbellzene .
, , hexhydride .
, bellzylxylenc .
, , triphenylmethane .
, octalte .
, , lcne .
, rutvlcn , , amJltoluene .
, , ylcumcne .
, , rarcne .
, , toly 1 enylmethano .
, , , non , , diamylene .
, , amylxylene .
, , lene .
, , decanc .
, , cthallG .
, , , lesityl methauc .
, dodecalle .
, , triclcc ) , bellylcne .
, , , , mylene .
, , ccte ] ] ) lene .
, , pentadecnne .
, etcne .
, , decane .
, tctramy lelle .
, cerotelle .
, th view of a comparison betwcen the hydrocnrl ) ) produced nnd their relative " " facility of productio1l i11dicated by , I have constructed the followin o ) of map wJll l ) rendily stood from inspection .
So nrc rned , it is the nrithmcticaI of ains a nnmber , and the symbol of a hydrocarl , on .
" " A line so as to cut off an equal number of ullits from the top row and the extrcme left-hand vertical column , is called a base .
Tho numbored , from top corner .
, the tcnth base is a line drawn the numbers 1 , 9 , 36 , MAP SYS 1 } HiDRO CA ' % Facility of Prodnction " " of Chemical binations .
55 84 , , 126 , 8436 , 9 , These ) , it will be obsorved , are the coefficients of the several in the expansion of and the symbols in the squares the symbols COl.responding to those coefficients .
Thus , for example , in the case of fourth base , which passcs the numbers 1 , 3 , 3 , ] , we httve .
The numerical coefficients , as is known , express nnmbcr of ways in the lettcrs in the corrcsponding symbols be permuted .
Now , the ' facility of production\ldquo ; of the hydrocarbon val.ies with the number of permutatious , so that in each square the symbol is associated with number expressing its " " facility of production If experience be collcordant with theory , the valley .
hydrocarbons which on the base-lines ( between which it is our object to effect the comrison in question ) will be found in those squares in which the numbers { .
Now , if a perpe ldiculal .
be let f$ll upon an bnse from the upper left-hand corner of the square in the top row , line will either the con- the eatest number or will pass between two squares , the numl ) cqually on side .
The perpendicular all the bases will be termed the axis or main of the squares in which the existing hydrocarbons are in the map shaded ; there are no known rbons correspollding to the plain .
If we the COUl.se of the axial line , it will be ceived that , up to the base , the through which the axis passes and the areS which lie immedi tely to the and to the left of the axis , with one exception , are coloured gre so that , up to point , all the hydrocarbons which ve theoretically the grcatest " " cility of lction ' ' have .
Further , a close inspection will show there is a decided tendency in system to approximate to this line .
It docs not , from these considerations , that " " cility of production\ldquo ; should be only cause determining the actual existence of the bons .
The case is not so simple as that of ving hitc and red an urn or cards from a pack .
At one time the of chemists may be mttinly , nlthough even unconsciously , to one of this stem ; at { nlother time to up another ; efforts which have in truth of tions or possibly in the discovery of some one or one but the kable fact remni ) , llotviththc ) tion of those multifarious cttuscs in Todhuntcl .
, " " of of Probability the has of ) paid to derivnves of sccl ) bc considcred an gro of ) stem to the of the Mr. E. C. Baber on the Jfinute Structure [ Jan. 31 , directions , the paramount influence of this " " facility of production\ldquo ; should still be rent as the one cause which determines the general aspect of the system .
The causes 1 have mentioned would obviously determine an unequal of the system and preclude a perfectly symmetrical arrangement , at any given time of observation , of the cluster of hydrocarbons around the axial line .
How far this inequality is due to accidental causes , and how far to the operation of permanent causes acting in one direction , is impossible , from the slender data we , to say , but the chemist should ever be alive to the detection of permanent deviations , in the form of the actual system , from the form indicated by theol'y , for in such observations lie our best means of detecting the existence of other causes affecting its growth , besides that predominant cause which has been here discussed . .
Sir JOSLPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , Prcsident in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks for them .
The following papers vere read : \mdash ; I. " " Furthcr Researches on Iinutc1 cture of the Thyroid omnlu .
By E. .
Communicated by Dr. KLEIN , Received November 21 , 1877 .
In a previous communication to the Socicty*I ] described some observations made on the minute anatomy of the thyroid land of the dog .
Since then I have extended these tions , under the direction of Dr. , to the glands of other vertebrate aninlals .
The chief results as yct arrived at will be very shortly described in the present communication , a full account of them being reserved to a fnture paper .
nphrxfics.\mdash ; In the thyroid gland of the I hnve described a dense rounded network of lymphatics traversing the gland in all directions , and of lymphatic vesscls , , and spnccs .
stem of tics has been observed in the gands of other , as kitten , rabbit , man , and horsc ; the extent of tion , however , as shown by the injection , ) ears to vary in different * ' ' Philosophical nbactions , \ldquo ; 1876 , vol. clxvi , pt .
, p.

