A paper was read , entitled , " On the Results of Tide Observations , made in June 1834 , at the Coast-Guard Stations in Great Britain and Ireland .
" By the Rev. W. Whewell , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
On a representation made by the author of the advantages which would result from a series of simultaneous observations of the tides , continued for a fortnight , along a great extent of coast , orders were given for carrying this measure into effect at all the stations of the Preventive service on the coasts of England , Scotland , and Ireland , from the 7th to the 22nd of June inclusive .
From an examination of the registers of these observations , which were transmitted to the Ad ?
miralty , but part of which only have as yet been reduced , the author has been enabled to deduce many important inferences .
He finds , in the first place , that the tides in question are not affected by any general irregularity , having its origin in a distant source , but only by such causes as are merely local , and that therefore the tides admit of exact determination , with the aid of local meteorological corrections .
The curves expressing the times of high water , with relation to those of the moon 's transit , present a very satisfactory agreement with theory ; the ordinates having , for a space corresponding to a fort ?
night , a minimum and maximum magnitude , though not symmetrical in their curvatures on the two sides of these extreme magnitudes .
The amount of flexure is not the same at different places ; thus confirming the result already obtained by the comparison of previous observations , and especially those made at Breast ; and demonstrating the futility of all attempts to deduce the mass of the moon from the phenomena of the tides , or to correct the tables of the tides by means of the mass of the moon .
By the introduction of a local , in addition to the general , semimenstrual inequality , we may succeed in recon2b ciling the discrepancies of the curve which represents this inequality for different places 3 discrepancies which have hitherto been a source of much perplexity .
These differences in the semimenstrual inequa ?
lity are shown by the author to be consequences of peculiar local circumstances , such as the particular form of the coast , the distance which the tide wave has travelled over , and the meeting of tides pro ?
ceeding in different directions ; and he traces the influence of each of these several causes in producing these differences .
A diurnal difference in the height of the tides manifests itself with remarkable constancy along a large portion of the coast under consideration .
The tide hour appears to vary rapidly in rounding the main promontories of the coast , and very slowly in passing along the shores of the intervening bays ; so that the cotidal lines are brought close together in the former cases , and , in the latter , run along nearly parallel to the shore 3 circumstances which will also account for comparative differences of level , and of corresponding velocities in the tide stream .
The author intends to prosecute the subject when the whole of the returns of these observations shall have undergone reduction .

