I. " Discussion of Tide-Observations at Bristol .
" By T. G. BUNT , Esq. Communicated by the Astronomer Royal .
Received October 24 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) This Paper contains the results of a Discussion of about 19,000 observations of Times and Heights of Iigh Water at Bristol , for the purpose of obtaining the Empirical Laws of the Diurnal Inequalities of the Times and HIeights , and of the Solar Inequality of the Times , of the tides at that port .
Curves on Diagrams which accompany the Paper exhibit the results .
The Observations were taken by a Self-registering Tide-Gauge , the Clock of which has from the first been regulated by transit observation .
The Diurnal Inequalities of the tides at Bristol are not large , that of time averaging only 2 minutes ( earlier or later ) , and that of height 2k inches ( greater or less ) .
Although it was stated by Sir JohnW .
Lubbock ( in 1839 ) that the diurnal inequality in time is too minute to be observed on our coasts , the slightest examination of the Diagram ( No. 4 ) will be sufficient to show that this remark is inapplicable to Bristol .
On this diagram are laid down the times and heights of tide registered there during six months of the year 1865 .
In consequence of the tranquil state of the weather , the agreement of the observed with the predicted times was unusually close ; the average error in time , during the six months , being only 2minutes , and for six weeks less than 1'9 minute .
The diurnal inequality , of time as well as of height , is throughout the diagram most conspicuous ; and the agreement of the calculated with the observed inequality close and satisfactory .
For each of the Diurnal Inequalities , the residues , or errors , of the calculated Times and Heights were arranged for every half month , and for each of the twenty-four hours of Lunar transit , making ( 24 x 24 = ) 576 Groups .
The averages of these , laid down in Curves , are shown in Diagrams No. 1 and 2 .
Diagram No 3 shows the Solar Inequality of Time , obtained in a similar manner , together with curves of the separate effects of the Solar Parallax and Solar Declimation .
A sheet from the Tide-Gauge Cylinder has also been sent , as a specimen of the regularity of the registered Curves in tranquil weather .

