Dr. Daubeny 's paper entitled , " On the action of Light upon Plants , and of Plants upon the Atmosphere , " was resumed and concluded .
The objects of the experimental inquiriesof which the author gives an account in this paper were , in the first place , to ascertain the extent of the influence of solar light in causing the leaves of plants to emit oxygen gas , and to decompose carbonic acid , when the plants were either immersed in water , or surrounded by atmospheric air .
The plants subjected to the former mode of trial were Brassica oleracea , Salicomia herbacea , Fucus digitatus , Tussilago hybrida , Cochlearia armorica , Menthu viridis , Rheum rhapontkum , Allium ursinum , and several species of Gramine.v .
Geraniums were the only plants subjected to experiment while surrounded with atmospheric air .
Comparative trials were made of the action on these plants of various kinds of coloured light , transmitted through tinted glass , of which the relative calorific , illuminating , and chemical powers had been previously ascertained ?
and the results of all the experiments are recorded in tables ; but no general conclusion is deduced from them by the author .
He next describes a few experiments which he made on beans , with a view to ascertain the influence of light on the secretion of the green matter of the leaves , or rather to determine whether the change of colour in the chromule is to be ascribed to this agent .
The third object of his inquiries was the source of the irritability of the Mimosa pudica , from which it appeared that light of a certain intensity is necessary for the maintenance of the healthy functions of this plant , and that when subjected to the action of the less luminous rays , notwithstanding their chemical influence , the plant lost its irritability quite as soon as when light was altogether excluded .
He then examines the action of light in causing exhalation of moisture from the leaves ; selecting Dahlias , Helianthuses , Tree Mallows , &amp; c , as the subjects of experiment .
The general tendency of the results obtained in this series is to show that the exhalation is , catteris paribus , most abundant in proportion to the intensity of the light received by the plant .
He also made various comparative trials of the quantity of water absorbed , under different circumstances , by the roots of plants , and chiefly of the Helianthus annuus , Sagittaria sagittifolia , and the Vine .
From the general tenor of the results of these and the preceding experiments , he is inclined to infer that both the exhalation and the absorption of moisture in plants , as far as they depend on the influence of light , are affected in the greatest degree by the most luminous rays ; that all the functions of the vegetable economy which are owing to the presence of this agent , follow , in this respect , the same law ; and that in the vegetable , as well as in the animal kingdom , light acts in the character of a specific stimulus .
The author found that the most intense artificial light that he could obtain from incandescent lime produced no sensible effect on plants .
The latter part of the paper is occupied by details of the experiments which the author made with a view to ascertain the action of plants upon the atmosphere , and more especially to determine the proportion that exists between the effects attributable to their action during the night and during the day ; and also the proportion between the carbonic acid absorbed , and the oxygen evolved .
His experiments appear to show that at least 18 per cent. of oxy ?
gen may be added to the air confined in a jar by the influence of a plant contained within it .
He also infers that the stage of vegetable life at which the function of purifying the air ceases , is that in which leaves cease to exist .
The author shows that this function is per ?
formed both in dicotyledonous and in monocotyledonous plants , in evergreens as well as in those that are deciduous , in terrestrial and in aquatic plants , in the green parts of eculents as well as in ordinary leaves , in Algae and in Ferns as well as in Phanerogamous families .
Professor Marcet has shown that it does not take place in Fungi .

