G FIG. 6 .
Fig. 5 .
BHB F EADm EA FEF n aaa Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
AGaa FC A Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
B DE G B C D Fig. 11 .
Unciae 1 Anglicae 2345678 n gac q. SEMIPEDES b. m a.Anglicus &amp; Graecus .
p. Parisinus Auzotii .
b.Rom .
Bernardi .
c.Catholicus Mori .
l g.Rom Graevii .
l.Venetus Auzotii v.Rom .
Villalpandi .
m.Bononiensis Picardi r.Rhinlandicus .
n.Bononiensis Riccioli A Letter from William Molyneux Esq ; to one of the Secretaries of the R. S. concerning the Circulation of the blood as seen , by the help of a Microscope , in the Lacerta Aquatica .
Dublin Octob. 27 .
1685 .
Sir , OUR Society lately received transcripts of two of Dr Gardens Letters , the first dated form Aberdeen July 17 .
1685 .
to Dr Middleton ; the other Sept. 4 .
1685 .
to Dr Plot .
To both these Letters I have something to say .
In the first he gives an Account of the Visible Circulation of the blood in the Water-Newt or Lacerta Aquatica ; truly I am heartily glad , that this Learned and Ingenious Dr has hit upon this Experiment ; tis now above two years and an half , since I first Discovered this surprising prising appearance , and wrote a large account thereof May 12 .
1683 , as also of the whole Anatomy of this Animal , to my Brother , who was'then at Leyden .
And I have since that , showed it frequently , both on the out-side without Dissection , and in the inward Vessels also , to several Curious Physicians and Philosophers , to their great satisfaction and admiration ; particularly I exposed it first to our Society May the 26 .
1684 .
as appears by the following Minute taken from out Registry .
May 26 .
1684 .
Mr. Molyneux opened before the Company a Water-Newt , which he takes to be the Salamandra or Lacerta Aquatica , in the body of this Animal there are two long Sacculi Aerei , on which the blood Vessels are curiously Ramifyed , to these blood Vessels applying a Microscope , he showed the Circulation of the blood ad Oculum , as plainly as water running in a River , and more rapidly then any common Stream .
The same experiment I repeated again before them on the 2d of June following , and to those that had good observing Eyes , the Circulation was as visible outwardly on the hands and toes , as in the Vessels within .
But Certainly the Appearance in the Vessels on the two forementioned sacculi , with the beating , emptying &amp; filling of the Heart , is most surprising to the beholder .
This Creature seems wonderfully adapted by Nature for this Experiment ; for besides the transparency of its Skin and Vessels , I have had them live nine hours after they have been Expanded , and all their Viscera laid open .
I send you herewith the Figures of the Animal .
Fig. 7th .
Tab. 1 .
shows the Entire Body of a Male , for the Female is not so strongly spotted .
Fig. 8th .
Tab. 1 .
is Rudely drawn , but aa Represent the Sacculi Aerei .
To Dr Gardens 2d .
Letter I have only this , he endeavours therein to explain and give an Account of the Trade Winds within the Tropicks from the different gravity of the Atmosphere at divers times of the Year .
And yet it is asserted numb. 165 .
page .
790 .
of the Philos. Transactions , that the Mercury is not affected with the weather , or very rarely , let it be Cloudy , Rainy , Windy , or Serene in St Helena , or the Barbadoes , and therefore probably not within the Tropicks , unless in a Violent storm or Hurricane .
Now if the Mercury move little or nothing in the Baroscope , tis likely there is little or no Change in the Gravity of the Atmosphere within the Tropicks .
I am , Your most Humble Servant , WILLIAMMOLYNEU X.

