Of the Judgement of some of the English Astronomers , touching the difference between two learned men , about an Observation made of the First of the two late Comets .
Whereas notice has been taken in Num. 6 .
of these Transactions , that there was some difference between those two deservedly celebrated Philosophers , Monsieur Hevelius and Monsieur Auzout , concerning an Observation , made by the former of them , on the 8/ 18 of February 1665 .
&amp; that thereupon some Eminent English Astronomers , considering the importance of the dispute , had undertaken the examination thereof ; it will , ` tis conceived , not be unacceptable to such , as saw those Papers , to be informed , what has been done and discerned by them in thatmatter .
They having therefore compared the Printed Writings of the two Diffenters , and withal consulted the observations made with Telescopes at home , by some of the most intelligent Astronomers amongst them , who have attentively observed the Position of that Comet to the Telescopical stars , that lay in its way ; Do thereupon Jointly conclude , that , whatever that Appearance was , which was seen near the First star of Aries , by Monsieur Hevelius ( the truth of whose relation concerning the same , they do in no wise question ) the said Comet did not come near that Star in the left Ear of Aries , where the said M. Hevelius supposes it to have passed , but took its course near the Bright Star in its Left Horn , according to Bayers Tables .
And since that the Observations of judicious both French , Italian , &amp; Dutch Astronomers(as many of them , as are come to the knowledgeof the English ) do in the main fully agree with theirs , they do not at all doubt , but that , there being such an-unanimous conBy Telescopical Stars are understood such , as are not seen , but by the help of a Telescope .
consent in what has been just now declared , &amp; the Controversy being about Matter of fact , wherein Authority , Number , and Reputation must cast the Balance , Mons. Hevelius , who is as well known for his Ingenuity , as Learning , will join and acquiesce in that sentiment .

