337 On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles.\#151 ; Tenth Note .
By C. S. Sherrington , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
( Received March 9 , \#151 ; Read April 18 , 1907 .
) ( Physiology Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) I. In previous notes* on this subject the examples of reciprocal innervation taken from the limb muscles have usually been from muscles acting at the knee .
An advantage offered there is that the vasti and extensors of the knee , act directly on that one joint alone .
A muscle acting on two joints is often an extensor of one of the joints and a flexor of the other .
When such a muscle is thrown into contraction by reflex action , there may be a dilemma as to whether it is as an extensor or as a flexor that it is acting , and the answer will depend partly on the mode of fixation of the joints at the time .
A double-joint muscle of this kind is ; it extends the ankle and flexes the knee .
It is , therefore , of interest to examine how this muscle behaves when its antagonist , tibialis anticus , a flexor of the ankle , is thrown into contraction by reflex action .
Stimulation of any among various points of skin , or of the proximal end of various afferent nerves of the leg , excites reflex contraction of tibialis anticus .
A nerve often used for the purpose in my observations has been the cutaneous branch of the peroneal nerve about a centimetre above the ankle ( cat ) .
In the reflex which then occurs in the limb , the following points can be made out .
The ankle is flexed , and with the flexion of ankle occurs also flexion at knee and hip .
If the anterior crural , obturator , hamstring , and popliteal nerve trunks , the insertions of iliopsoas , and psoas parvus , and the origin of pectineus muscles be severed , active flexion of .knee and hip are excluded from the reflex .
The active flexion at ankle still persists .
On inspecting the tendons of the pretibial flexors of the ankle , that of tibialis anticus is seen to be drawn upward at each reflex , and with it also those of extensor longus digitorum and peroneus longus , but in my experience these latter are retracted less .
If , in addition to the nerves and muscles mentioned above as severed , the peroneal nerve itself have all its muscular branches severed , but the branch from the popliteal nerve to the gastrocnemius be spared , and that muscle be exposed to inspection , usually no change in that muscle appears .
* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vols .
52 , 66 , 76 , 77 . .
'i Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Mar. 9 , But if the conditions of experiment provide a pre-existent reflex contraction in the gastrocnemius , relaxation of it is seen to occur .
A pre-existent reflex contraction of the gastrocnemius can be provided in several ways .
I have for the purpose generally employed stimulation of the central end of the external plantar nerve of the opposite leg , e.g. , right .
A light weight is attached to the left foot in such a way that the gastrocnemius acts against the weight in maintaining extension at the ankle .
On stimulating the proximal end of the above-mentioned cutaneous branch of the left peroneal nerve , the ankle then flexes ( fig. 1 ) .
The gastrocnemius being the only muscle of the leg whose innervation remains , this flexion must indicate reflex relaxation of that muscle .
The requisite precurrent reflex contraction of the gastrocnemius may also be obtained by inducing decerebrate rigidity .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Myograph tracing from isolated right gastrocnemius ( spinal cat ) .
Upward movement of the recording lever registered contraction of the muscle , downward movement registered relaxation .
The upper of the two signals below the myograph line marked the moment and duration of mechanical stimulation applied to central end of a cutaneous branch of the musculo-cutaneous division of left peroneal nerve .
This stimulation caused reflex contraction of right gastrocnemius .
The lower signal marked the times of application of weak faradism to central end of the similar cutaneous nerve of the right limb .
In the right limb all other branches of the peroneal nerve , and all the branches of the popliteal except that to the gastrocnemius , had been severed , as well as obturator , anterior crural , and hamstring nerves , and the insertions of iliopsoas and psoas parvus , and the origins of adductor and pectineus muscles .
The inhibitory relaxation of gastrocnemius is seen to be followed on cessation of the stimulation by marked after-rebound to contraction , especially after the second and third repetitions of the inhibitory stimulus .
Time is marked above in fifths of seconds . .
* .
One of the features of that rigidity is tonic extension of the ankle joint .
Under this condition the reflex which produces contraction of the pretibial flexors of the ankle produces also , simultaneously , a relaxation of the gastrocnemius .
^ 1907 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
339 This reflex relaxation of gastrocnemius resembles that produced in the extensor muscles of the knee by stimulation of the proximal end of a cutaneous branch of the crural nerve .
If , instead of the cutaneous branch of the peroneal nerve , the branch of the peroneal to the tibialis anticus muscle is severed , and then stimulated proximal to the section , other conditions remaining as above , the gastrocnemius similarly relaxes .
In this case , therefore , stimulation of afferent nerve-fibres from the flexor muscle of the ankle evokes reflex relaxation of the extensor muscle of that joint .
The case resembles , therefore , the , reflex relaxation of the extensor of the knee evoked by stimulating the afferent fibres of the nerve of the flexor muscle of the knee.* Let the conditions of experiment remain still as above except that the nerve of extensor longus digitorum is left unsevered , and let the tendons of that muscle at the ankle be severed to prevent their acting on the ankle joint .
The extensor longus digitorum is seen to contract at the time when the gastrocnemius relaxes in the reflex excited from the central end of the nerve of tibialis anticus .
And , conversely , stimulation of the central end of the nerve of extensor longus digitorum causes reflex contraction of tibialis together with concurrent relaxation of gastrocnemius .
II .
In these instances , as in others previously reported , !
stimulation of afferent nerve-fibres issuing from a muscle excites reflex contraction in that muscle and in muscles synergic with it , and , concurrently , causes reflex relaxation of the antagonistic muscles .
Such instances are furnished by the nerves of biceps cruris ( posterior part ) , biceps tibialis anticus , extensor longus digitorum , peroneus longus , etc. But it was shownj that if the nerve of the vasto-crureus muscle in the thigh be carefully split and one of its divisions be then severed , the central end of that division , when stimulated , provokes reflex relaxation of the vasto-crureus muscle itself , with concurrent reflex excitation of the antagonists of that muscle .
Here the reflex exhibits , as in the other cases , reciprocal innervation of antagonistic muscles , but the case differs from the others in that that muscle whose nerve is stimulated is itself the field for relaxation , while , conversely , its antagonists , instead of being inhibited , contract .
I find a parallel case to this is .
given by the nerve of gastrocnemius .
If all the nerves of the limb be severed except that of the outer head of gastrocnemius , and if then the central end of the nerve of the inner head of that muscle be stimulated , reflex relaxation of the outer part of the gastroc* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 .
J ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 77 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Mar. 9 , nemius occurs .
If the nerves of tibialis and extensor digitorum have not been severed , though their tendons at the ankle have been cut in order to prevent their mechanical action at that joint , reflex contraction of tibialis anticus , and , to a less extent , in my experience , of extensor longus digitorum , can , by inspection , easily be seen to accompany the reflex relaxation , of the unparalysed part of the gastrocnemius .
The inhibition can be demonstrated well by producing from the plantar nerve of the opposite leg a reflex contraction of the gastrocnemius just prior to exciting the reflex inhibition from its own nerve .
The inhibition can also be demonstrated under decerebrate rigidity .
The experiment can be varied by severing the nerve of the outer instead of the inner head of the gastrocnemius and keeping that of the inner head intact for revealing the effect on the muscle .
The result is similar in the two cases .
The nerve of soleus exhibits a similar reflex ; so also in the fore limb do the nerves of anconeus , and parts of deltoid and triceps brachii respectively .
These likewise , while causing inhibitory relaxation of their own muscles , cause also reflex contraction in their antagonistic muscles , which flex respectively the elbow and the shoulder joints .
III .
Among afferent nerves proceeding from the muscles of the limbs , there are , therefore , as regards their reflex effects upon the musculature , two groups .
Both Of these evoke reciprocal innervation in antagonistic pairs of muscles ; but one group evokes a reflex which excites that muscle from which the afferent nerve itself proceeds and concurrently inhibits the antagonistic muscles , while the other group evokes a reflex which relaxes the muscle from which the afferent nerve , proceeds and concurrently excites the antagonistic muscles .
In both cases the reflex inhibition is not confined to one single muscle , but involves a number of muscles , just as the reflex contraction is not confined to one single muscle , but involves a number .
Thus , with the inhibition of gastrocnemius , there can be seen to be associated , in one and the same reflex , reflex relaxation of soleus , crureus , vastus lateralis , and vastus medialis .
Similarly , with the reflex contraction of tibialis anticus there can be seen to occur concurrent contraction , more or less pronounced , in extensor longus digitorum , peroneus longus , biceps cruris ( posterior part ) , semi-tendinosus , sartorius , tensor fasciae femoris , gracilis , psoas , iliacus , and psoas .
It is obvious , therefore , that the reflex inhibition is distributed over a group of synergic muscles , and that , similarly , the reflex contraction is distributed over another group of synergic muscles .
The former are extensors of the ankle , knee , and hip ; the latter are flexors of the ankle , knee , and hip .
In view of the synergic relation apparent in the muscles over which the reflex relaxation is distributed , it might be expected that stimulation of the afferent 1907 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
341 nerve of a muscle whose own nerve inhibits ( reflexly ) that muscle itself would also , inhibit the other muscles whose nerves reflexly inhibit their own muscles .
Experiment shows this to be actually the case .
Thus the afferent nerve of vasto-crureus inhibits reflexly the gastrocnemius ; the nerve of gastrocnemius inhibits reflexly the vasto-crureus ; the nerve of soleus inhibits vasto-crureus , the nerve of vasto-crureus inhibits the soleus , and so on , so far as I have tested .
Similarly , stimulation of the afferent nerve proceeding from a muscle whose nerve throws its own muscle reflexly into contraction might be expected to excite reflex contraction ip .
other muscles whose afferent nerves excite reflex contraction in their own muscles .
Experiment finds this to be actually the case .
Thus the nerve of semi-tendinosus excites , reflexly , contraction of the tibialis anticus ; the nerve of tibialis anticus excites reflex contraction in the semi-tendinosus ; the nerve of extensor digitorum excites reflex con- traction in the tibialis anticus ; the nerve of tibialis anticus excites reflex contraction in the extensor longus digitorum ; the nerve of psoas excites contraction in the semi-tendinosus ; the nerve of semi-tendinosus excites contraction in the psoas ; the nerve of psoas excites contraction in the tibialis anticus ; the nervtf of tibialis anticus excites contraction in the psoas , and so on , so far as my experiments go .
IV .
The reflexes elicitable from some of the limb nerves other than the above have also been observed in the experiments ( cat ) .
Among these additional nerves have been the following : the first dorsal digital , external plantar , internal plantar , the branch from the anterior tibial trunk ; to the foot ( taken close above the ankle ) , the cutaneous branch of the musculocutaneous division of the peroneal nerve , the external saphenous nerve on the calf , the cutaneous branches of the sciatic given off above the popliteal space , the branch of the obturator to pectineus , the branch to , the branch to the adductor , the whole obturator nerve at the obturator foramen , the external cutaneous and the internal saphenous at various points along its course .
These evoke reflex contraction in biceps cruris ( posterior part ) , tibialis anticus , extensor longus peroneus longus\#151 ; the reflex contraction in these two last is relatively slight , in my experience\#151 ; gracilis , sartorius , tensor fasciae femoris , gluteus maximus ( anterior part ) , gluteus minimus , pectineus .
The muscles , therefore , in which the reflex contraction has been observed to take place may be broadly described as those producing flexion of the limb , with some abduction and inward rotation .
Consonantly with this , the reflex movement observed to result from stimulation of each of the afferent nerves , mentioned in the list at the outset of this section , has been flexion at knee , hip , and ankle , the flexion tending Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Mar. 9 , to be more marked at one or another of those joints according to circumstances , of which one has seemed to be the particular nerve chosen for excitation .
These afferent nerves .have also provoked reflex relaxation of crnreus , adductores , quadratus femoris , semi-membranosus , gastrocnemius , and soleus .
These reflex results have throughout the experiments been perfectly constant , in the sense that a nerve which provoked reflex contraction of a certain muscle never yielded reflex inhibition of that muscle , either in the same experiment or in another .
The modes of stimulation of the nerves were , in each case , faradisation and mechanical compression separately employed for each nerve .
Of these afferent nerves examined , some are cutaneous , gbme deep , e.g. , issue from muscles , and some contain fibres from both cutaneous and deep sources .
The reflex result of each was the same , in so far that each provoked contraction of the flexor muscles and reflex relaxation of the extensor muscles .
I have shown previously* that the reflex movement provoked in the limb by faradisation of skin points in all parts of the surface , below the knee at least , is likewise flexion at knee , hip , and ankle .
Putting these results together , it seems , therefore , that whereas in some reflexes , e.g. , the scratch reflex and the pinna reflex , the receptive field of the reflex is entirely cutaneous , in the flexion reflex of the limb the receptive field is both cutaneous and deep .
For reasons adduced else where , f the deep receptors of the body , e.g. , receptive end-organs in muscles , tendons , joints , bones , etc. , can be conveniently classed together as proprioceptive , the immediate agent of stimulation in their case being usually not an object of the environment , but a part of the body itself .
On the other hand , the receptors of the outer surface of the organism , e.g. , the skin , receive their stimulation usually more directly from the external environment , and have been termed exteroceptive.$ The fields of reception of such reflexes as the scratch reflex and the pinna reflex are , therefore , purely exteroceptive ; but the field of reception of the flexion reflex of the hind limb is both exteroceptive and proprioceptive .
The same appears to be true , so far as my experiments go , of the flexion reflex of the fore limb , and also for the crossed extension reflex of the hind limb and the crossed extension reflex of the fore limb .
The field of reception of each of these reflexes appears to be both exteroceptive and proprioceptive .
* ' Journ. of Physiology , ' vol. 34 , p. 28 ; 'Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' London and New York , p. 127 .
t 'Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' pp. 130 , 336 , etc. ; 'Ergebnisse d. Physiologie , ' p. 824 , 1905 , J ' Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' 'Ergebnisse d. Physiologie , loc. cit. Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
1907 .
] In the scratch reflex , the reflex , though from each point of skin in the receptive field a scratch reflex is produced , varies in certain characters as the locus of stimulation in the receptive field is shifted .
The scratch reflex , considered as a generic type ( the type reflex)* is , therefore , not really one reflex but a group of allied reflexesf differing somewhat one from another , yet presenting certain similar characters in common .
The same is true of the flexion reflex of the limb .
Although the movement is always flexion of the limb , the flexion tends to differ somewhat according as this or that skin-point , or this- or that afferent nerve branch , is the seat of stimulation .
These differences are more easily apparent in my experience under weak stimulation than under strong. .
The flexion reflex as a generic whole ( the type reflex ) is , therefore , not strictly one reflex , but is a group of allied reflexes , closely similar in general character , yet possessing individual differences one from another .
V. The crossed reflex excited in a hind limb by stimulation applied to the fellow limb of the opposite side exhibits , in my experience , a regularity almost as marked as does the uncrossed flexion reflex .
The distribution of the effect seems mainly , if not entirely , to muscles affected by the uncrossed reflex .
The crossed reflex has been elicited in my experiments by stimulation of the following afferent nerves : The plantar nerves , the anterior tibial close above the ankle , cutaneous branch of the musculo-cutaneous division of the peroneal , external saphenous , external cutaneous , internal saphenous at various heights up the limb , the nerves of tibialis anticus , extensor longus digitorum , peroneus longus , p. brevis , quartidigiti , gracilis , pectineus , adductor ' , and the larger nerve-trunks , such as obturator , peroneal , popliteal , and hamstring nerve .
In the case of these nerves , the reflex effect observed in the crossed hind limb has been contraction of crureus , vastus lateralis , vastus medialis , adductores , semi-membranosus , gastrocnemius , and soleus .
The resulting movement has been observed to be extension at knee , ankle , and hip .
This movement is observed not only in the cat and dog but in the rabbit ; though in the rabbit , in the ordinary progression of that animal , the hind limbs flex and extend synchronously usually instead of alternately as in cat and dog .
When psoas , gracilis , semi-tendinosus , biceps cruris ( posterior part ) , tensor fasciae femoris , and extensor longus digitorum are examined in the crossed reflex , they are , in my experience , not seen to contract .
One might imagine that the reflex exerted no influence on them .
But of this one cannot be * ' Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' p , 127 ; ' Ergebnisse d. Physiologie , ' loc. cit. , p. 822 .
t ' Brit. Assoc. Reports , ' 1904 .
Address to Sect. I. 344 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Mar. 9 , sure until they have been thoroughly examined under conditions favourable for the detection of reflex inhibition .
It seems not unlikely that they are inhibited in the crossed reflex .
It would seem therefore that , as said above , the distribution of the reflex effect is in the crossed reflex mainly , if not entirely , to the same muscles as those affected by the uncrossed reflex , but that the incidence of excitation and inhibition upon the motor neurones of those muscles is converse in the two reflexes .
Those muscles which undergo reflex relaxation in the idiolateral reflex exhibit reflex contraction in the crossed reflex .
In giving the above detailed lists of muscles observed to contract or relax in these reflexes , it is not intended to assert that the reflex throws into or out of contraction no other muscles of the limb ; All that is meant is that in the muscles cited the reflex effect mentioned has been regularly observed .
YI .
It seems noteworthy that those muscles , , the afferent nerves issuing from which evoke reflex relaxation of those muscles themselves , possess certain physiological characters in common .
They are all extensors , extending respectively the knee , the ankle , and the elbow .
They are all muscles which , after decerebration of the animal ( rabbit , cat , dog , monkey ) , markedly exhibit decerebrate rigidity ; They all are muscles which , in the standing posture and in progression , counteract , by tonic contraction , the effect of gravitation and prevent the limbs yielding under the weight of the body .
Two of them certainly yield " jerk-phenomena , " e.g. , " knee-jerk " and " elbow-jerk .
" Another among them yields the allied phenomenon , ankle-clonus .
They are all muscles for which the toxic agents , strychnine and tetanus-toxin , show marked predilection .
They seem , therefore , in these respects to belong to a homogeneous functional group .
A question naturally arising in regard to these muscles is , whether in the afferent nerves issuing from them there exist no fibres at all which can provoke in them reflex contraction .
In my experiments on their nerves the stimulus applied to the nerve trunk has been faradism or mechanical compression .
It must be remembered that when stimulated in this way the plantar nerves likewise always evoke reflex inhibition in these muscles in the idiolateral hind limb .
Yet there is a reflex-^\#151 ; the " extensor thrust " *\#151 ; obtainable from the planta(dog ) , which causes , not relaxation , but contraction of these very muscles ; and this reflex ceases when the plantar nerves are severed .
There appear , therefore , to be in the plantar nerves some afferent fibres which can excite reflex contraction of the extensor muscles of the limb , although when the whole of either plantar nerve trunk is excited by faradisation or by mechanical compression , the reflex produced is , in my experience , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 66 ; also * Journ. of Physiology , ' vol. 30 , p. 39 .
1907 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
345 never contraction of these muscles , but is inhibitory relaxation .
Similarly , therefore , with the afferent nerves issuing from these muscles , it may be that they contain some fibres which , if stimulated by themselves apart from the other fibres in the nerves , would evoke reflex contraction of the muscles , although the whole collection of nerve-fibres in the nerve-branch causes reflex inhibition of the muscles when the mode of stimulation is faradisation or mechanical compression of the nerve .
This possibility is emphasised by other facts .
These may be briefly stated as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The tonic rigidity of vasto-crureus in decerebrate rigidity appears to be reflex , and the afferent channel of the reflex seems to lie in the nerve issuing from vasto-crureus itself .
The tonic , rigidity of this muscle is maintained when all the nerves of both hind limbs have been severed , excepting only the nerve of the vasto-crureus itself .
The rigidity of the muscle immediately ceases on severance of the spinal afferent roots through which pass the afferent fibres of the vasto-crureus nerve itself .
Similarly , also , with the tonic contraction of gastrocnemius under decerebrate rigidity , and with that of soleus .
The tonic contraction of these muscles ceases only on severance of the afferent fibres issuing from those muscles themselves .
2 .
When all the nerves of both hind limbs have been severed , excepting only the nerve of vasto-crureus , squeezing the lower end of the shaft of the femur , exposed from the outer side , after exsection of the middle portion of the length of the shaft , evokes contraction of the vasto-crureus , and this contraction becomes inelicitable on severing the afferent spinal roots of the limb .
Similarly , when the popliteal nerve remains as well as the nerve of vasto-crureus , contraction of vasto-crureus is elicited by squeezing the shaft of the tibia , but the reaction ceases on severing the afferent spinal roots of the limb .
Again , under decerebrate rigidity , when all the nerves of both hind limbs are severed , excepting only the nerves of gastrocnemius and soleus of one side , light tapping on the shaft of the tibia excites increase of the tonic contraction of gastrocnemius and soleus ; and this persists after the shaft of the femur has been cut through , but ceases on severance of the afferent spinal roots of the limb .
3 .
If , under decerebrate rigidity , the animal being in the inverted posture , the hind limb is lightly lifted by the foot into a position of full extension at knee and the foot is then released so that the limb below the knee drops into flexion , the free fall is seen to be suddenly checked much before full flexion is reached .
The impression given is that of a contraction reflexly evoked in the extensors of the knee .
The reaction oocurs when all nerves of both hind limbs have been severed , excepting only the nerve of the vasto-crureus under observation .
It ceases when the a , fferent spinal roots of the 346 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Mar. 9 , limb are severed .
A similar thing is seen with adductor minor , and with quadratus femoris under appropriate conditions for their tension .
Similarly , under decerebrate rigidity , the tonic contraction of the vasto-crureus is markedly increased by a few passive extensions and flexions of the knee : and this holds good when the only nerve unsevered in the two hind limbs is that of the vasto-crureus in question .
Similarly , the tonic contraction of the gastrocnemius-soleus can be markedly increased by a few passive extensions and flexions of the ankle , and this holds when all nerves have been severed except those issuing from these muscles themselves ; the effect ceases when the spinal afferent roots have been cut .
4 .
On lifting a dog in which spinal transection above the lumbar region has been performed , and the period of shock passed over , it is extremely frequent for strong reflex extension of both hind limbs to occur .
Both limbs are simultaneously extended at knee and ankle .
This does not occur if , when the animal is lifted , the hind limbs are prevented from dropping under their own weight .
Passive support of the limbs , under the thighs for instance , precludes the reflex .
5 .
It was stated above that faradisation or mechanical compression of the nerve of the vasto-crureus provokes with regularity an inhibitory relaxation of that muscle and of soleus and gastrocnemius .
Occasionally , however , though , in my experience , quite rarely , if the nerves of the limb be all of them severed , excepting only that of the vasto-crureus itself , and that nerve be split into two divisions , central stimulation of one division may provoke slight extension at the knee if the initial posture of the knee at the time be full flexion.* But the same stimulation provokes inhibitory relaxation of the extensor if the initial posture of the knee at the time be fair extension .
This result seems to resemble some reflex results recorded by v. Uexkull in Invertebrata.f 6 .
Finally , it may be recalled that various observers regard " knee-jerk " and " ankle-clonus " as reflex reactions , in spite of the admitted brevity of the latent time of the former .
The knee-jerk is obtainable in the spinal animal when all nerves of the two hind limbs have been severed , excepting only the nerve of the vasto-crureus muscle in which the " jerk " is being examined.^ It then ceases at once on severing the afferent spinal roots , through which pass the afferent fibres of the nerve of that muscle .
Again , under decerebrate rigidity , ankle-clonus is obtainable ( cat ) when all the nerves of both hind limbs have been severed , excepting ..only the nerve of * Cf .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 66 ; and vol. 76 , B , p. 291 .
+ ' Zeitschrift f. Biologie , ' vol. 44 ; ' Ergebnisse d. Physiologie , ' 1904 , p. 1 .
J ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , p. 557 .
1907 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
gastrocnemius-soleus .
The reaction then ceases on severing the afferent spinal roots , through which pass the afferent fibres from the nerves of those muscles .
7 .
It seems possible that the diphasic result described in the following section ( Section VII ) may likewise point to the admixture , in the afferent nerves stimulated , of fibres provocative of opposite reflex effects ( reflex relaxation , reflex contraction ) in the same muscle .
VII .
When the isolated vasto-crureus muscle with its nerve intact , or , similarly , the isolated gastrocnemius , soleus , or triceps brachii are under examination for the reflex effect upon them of excitation of the afferent nerves of their own limb , the inhibitory relaxation provoked is , on cessation of the stimulus , very frequently followed at once by contraction ( fig. 1 ) .
This I have noted before , * but in systematically working through the afferent nerves of the limb it is so usual a reaction as to demand further mention here .
It occurs with mechanical as well as with electric stimulation .
It occurs in reflexes excited from skin as well as in those excited from isolated nerves , both cutaneous and deep .
It occurs in the forelimb as well as in the hind-limb .
It seems of central origin .
Similarly , the inhibitory relaxation of the hamstring muscles , e.g. , left , provoked by stimulation of the central end of a nerve , e.g. , vasto-crureus nerve or plantar nerve , of the crossed hind limb ( right ) , is sometimes followed , on cessation of the stimulus , by an immediate rebound to contraction in those muscles .
This may be well seen after the nerve of the corresponding extensors ( left ) of knee has been severed .
A similar result can be obtained from an afferent nerve , e.g. , median , of the crossed forearm ( right ) .
The stimulation of the median , giving inhibitory relaxation of the hamstring muscles ( left ) , is followed , on cessation of the stimulus , by an 'immediate rebound to contraction .
Again , under decerebrate rigidity , when all the nerves of the hind limb ( left ) have been severed , excepting only the nerve of the vasto-crureus , the reflex contraction of the vasto-crureus excited by stimulation of a nerve , e.g. , musculo-cutaueous , of the crossed ( right ) forearm , is often followed , immediately on cessation of the stimulus , by a relaxation of that muscle far more complete than that which existed in it immediately prior to the reflex contraction .
The phase of reflex contraction seems here to be immediately followed by a phase of reflex relaxation ; just as , conversely , in other cases the phase of reflex relaxation is immediately followed by a phase of reflex contraction .
The after-contraction following the inhibition seems best obtained when the stimulus is not very strong , but appears more marked after moderate than * 4 Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 77 , B , p. 486 .
2 o VOL. LXXIX.--B .
348 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
On Reciprocal [ Mar. 9 , after very weak stimuli .
It seems favoured by shortness of duration of the stimulus , e.g. , a duration of half a second or a second seems more favourable than one of 4 seconds .
It is seen under decerebrate rigidity as well as after spinal transection .
The after-contraction in vasto-crureus or gastrocnemius often does not extend the knee or ankle to as great a degree as existed under the decerebrate rigidity , immediately before the reflex inhibition\#151 ; the first effect of the stimulus\#151 ; set in .
Sometimes , however , the after-contraction actually exceeds the degree of contraction existent prior to the reflex inhibition ( fig. 1 ) .
The after-contraction never , in my experience , sets in during the actual application of the stimulus , but follows as a rebound after its cessation .
The rebound is evidently reflex , for it often involves the extensors of hip , knee , and ankle together .
The inference was drawn above that the reaction is central in its mechanism .
That is also borne out by the fact that it is met with under direct stimulation of the cross-section of the spinal cord itself .
Thus I have met it when faradising , by the unipolar method , the lateral column of the spinal cord at the 10th thoracic level in the dog .
The 7th cervical segment had been exsected seven months previously .
From three points in the left ventrolateral column flexion of left hip and knee was obtained as a conjoined movement , together with extension of the right knee .
There followed regularly , on cessation of the stimulus , a marked after-extension of left hip and knee .
This after-extension was immediately cut short on stimulating the previous point again .
But the after-extension was frequently increased by stimulating the left dorsal column .
The face of the spinal section stimulated was that distal to the transection made at the time to expose the cross area of the cord for direct excitation .
[ .
Addendum.\#151 ; In Section VI above , it was pointed out that the muscles reflexly inhibited in the instances of reciprocal innervation given possess certain physiological characters in common .
Among these characters , one that was mentioned was their counteracting gravity by tonic contraction in the habitual posture of the body when erect , in standing .
An instance of reflex reciprocal innervation is , however , furnished by the hind limb ( cat ) , in which there occurs inhibitory relaxation of muscles which in some respects can hardly be supposed to have the function of counteracting gravity in the ordinary erect posture , e.g. , standing .
This instance is well exemplified when the afferent nerve chosen for exciting the reflex is either of the plantar nerves or the musculo-cutaneous branch of the peroneal below the knee .
Stimulation of any of these nerves excites reflex contraction of the flexors of hip , knee , and ankle , and reflex inhibition of the extensors of 1907 .
] Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
hip , knee , and ankle .
But the stimulation excites , in addition , * gluteus minimus and the anterior part of gluteus maximus .
These two muscles produce abduction and internal rotation of the thigh .
Together with the reflex contraction thus excited in these two muscles , the stimulation provokes reflex inhibitory relaxation of adductor , adductor major , and quadratus femoris .
Of these three muscles , the two first are adductors of the thigh , the two last are external rotators of the thigh ; all three are extensors of the thigh .
In this reflex , therefore , not only are extensors relaxed when flexors contract , but adductors are relaxed when abductors contract , and external rotators are relaxed when internal rotators contract .
It would seem , therefore , in this case that , as in the case of reciprocal innervation of antagonistic lateral muscles of the eyeball , the reciprocal inhibition of the muscles occurs even where the muscles are not by their tonus engaged in counteracting gravity.\#151 ; April 16 , 1907 .
] VOL. lxxix.\#151 ; B.

