]\gt ; Note on the Electric Capacity Coefficients of Spheres .
By ALEXANDER , D.Sc .
( Communicated by .
C. Chree , F.R.S. Received October 8 , \mdash ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) In the ' of the Society , vol. 87 , p. 109 , Mr. Jeffery obtains a general solution of Laplace 's equation in a form suitable for physical problems in connection with two spheres .
As an illustration he applies his solution to the problem of finding the capacity coefficients of two equal spheres , a result which he shows to be equivalent to one of Maxwell 's series formulae .
He then computes a table of the numerical values of these coefficients .
Presumably , in order to lessen the labour of computation , he calculates the values corresponding to equal increments of a function ?
, which equals where is the distance the centl.es of the spheres and is the radius of either .
Even in these cases , when is small , the computation by Maxwell 's formula is laborious , and this possibly accounts for the errors in the tables given .
In practical laboratory work the values of these coefficients are sometimes required , and so I gave*a table and a number of formula to simplify their calculation .
For } , when the spheres are close ether , we can use the formula where is the self-capacity coefficient of either sphere .
If , for instance , we put , we get The value given by .
Jeffery is When From the tables given in my paper referred to above we find that when .
It will be seen that a small in the value of makes an appreciable in the alue of the capacity coefficient .
I have recomputed the first of Mr. Jeffery 's tables given on p. 119 of his paper .
The values of the ratio of the diameter of either sphere to the distance between them ( sech simply ) have not been accurately computed , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 82 , p. 529 .
486 Note on the Electric Coefficients of Spheres .
but as these values have not been used in calculating the capacity coefficients , the errors in the latter are due to other reasons .
( p. 119 ) .
Table I.\mdash ; The Self-capacity Coefficient of either Sphere .
The remaining six values in the table are given correctly .
Mr. Jeffery also gives a table of the values of the capacity ( Maxwell 's definition ) of a sphere in the presence of an infinite conducting plane .
By utilising Kelvin 's method of images and the formula given in my paper , we find at once that when the distance between the sphere and the plane is not greater than the radius of the sphere , we have where is the capacity of the sphere , or , as it is perhaps better called , the capacity between the sphere and the pJane .
The nearer the sphere is to the plane the easier it is to find by this mula .
For example , when , we find that , the last three terms of the formula being negligible when this accuracy onIy is desired .
In the following table is the distance between the centre of the sphere and the plane .
A Note on the Absorption of -Rays .
The Capacity between a Sphere and an Infinite Plane .
2.6749 1.6679 The simple formulae used for the latter half of this table will be in the ' Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers , ' vol. p. 257 , and in the ' Proceedings of the Physical Society , ' vol. 23 , p. 352 .
In the ' Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 27 , p. 673 ( 1886 ) , Kirchhoff applies Clausen 's theorem to recompute some of the values given in Kelvin 's well known table ( Reprint ' On Electrostatics , ' p. 83 ) .
ote on the of -Rays .
By J. A. GRAY , M.Sc .
, 1851 Exhibition Scholar , University of Melbourne , Hon. Research Fellow , University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.B.S. Received September 26 , \mdash ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) It is clear , from the experiments of W. and that one of main factors in the absorption of -rays is the loss in velocity of -rays in passing through ulatter .
It follows from this that -rays of a definite speed must have what may be called a maxiulutl range , and also that an } ) onential law of absorption for -rays can only be approximate .
These facts are brought out in the experiment on the ) of radium E. Two preparations of radium were used , one relatively weak .
The weaker preparation was placed 2 cm .
below an electroscope 4 cm .
* W. Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. 612 ; 1910 , , vol. 84 , Crowther , 'Proc .
Camb .
Phil. Soc 1910 , vol. 15 , p. 6 ; .
Baeyer , Hahn and Meitner , 'Phys .
Zeit Jan. , 1911 .

