Note on Effect of Wind Pressure on Pitch of Organ Pipes .
99 The approximate value of [ J* ( IciO ) J _s { ha ) | when s \#151 ; 0 is exp { 2R ( h ) a)-*-(27r | \ ) , and the exponent is 80000 X"1 R ( h/ fy ; by using the complete system of asymptotic expansions when s =jfc 0 , we find that the integral is convergent and is of order of magnitude exp { -80000X"1 R ( h/ k ) } .
It follows by easy arithmetic that the integral is negligible compared with the series .
The effect of the waves which pass through the Earth is therefore trivial compared with that of the waves which travel round the Earth .
10 .
If we take the series for IIa ( a , 0 ) and expand sec r into the series 2 / g-wrf -e~3vni + e-'ovni \#151 ; ... } and multiply the result by \#171 ; * \lt ; \#187 ; -*)* , e~v^~e)i , which are the exponential factors in Laplace 's approximation for P"(\#151 ; /* ) , the separate terms in the product denote the disturbances produced by waves travelling from the oscillator in either direction round the Earth after passing completely round 0 , 1 , 2 , ... , times .
There seems to be no similar physical significance for the separate terms corresponding to different values of v. Note on the Effect of Wind Pressure on the Pitch of Organ Pipes .
By A. Mallock , E.R.S. ( Received May 30 , 1918 .
) In books on acoustics the pitch of organ pipes is treated as being dependent solely on the length of the pipe , while at the same time it is recognised that , as a consequence of the conditions existing at the open end or ends , the length in question is somewhat greater than that of the pipe itself .
The " correction for open ends " has been calculated for particular cases , and for the open end of a pipe of circular section amounts to an addition to its length of about 0'82 times the radius .
The conditions at the base , or speaking end , are more complex , and for this ( as far as I am aware ) no similar correction has been worked out .
For these reasons the natural pitch of an organ pipe cannot be accurately determined from its material dimensions , but only by experiment ; such , for instance , as noting the frequency of an exterior source of sound which produces the maximum resonance in the pipe .
When an organ pipe is made to " speak " in the ordinary way , it is a matter of common knowledge that the pitch of note produced is to some Mr. A. Mallock .
Note on the Effect of extent dependent on the pressure of the wind supply , and the fact ( though often mentioned ) has not been satisfactorily accounted for * ( Lord Eayleighf has published an accurate series of experiments on this subject , which will be referred to later .
) The true explanation is exceedingly simple , but , like many other problems of the flow of fluids , it cannot , at present at any rate , be treated on a purely dynamical basis .
Mathematical hydrodynamics treats of problems in which the effects of instability are not included , and , although the conclusiops thus reached apply with great accuracy to wave motion , they fail , except in a very limited degree , to represent what actually happens when fluids flow past solids , or where the action of intrusive jets is concerned .
In such cases , what is required is a knowledge of the nature of the fluid motion when the effects of instability have been fully established , and I believe that no problem of this kind has been successfully treated by purely dynamical considerations .
Various views have been held as to the manner in which the air jet , or lamina , sustains the vibrations in an organ pipe .
To satisfy myself as to what actually occurred , I made some experiments in which water was substituted for air .
A glass tube , about 15 inches long and 1 inch in diameter , had at its lower end an ebonite fitting connected to a water supply , and so made as to deliver a lamina of water similar to the air lamina which acts in an ordinary organ pipe .
The whole was immersed in a tank until only 3 inches of the tube were above the water surface , thus leaving a column of 1 foot of water above the orifice of the jet .
The natural period of the vertical oscillation of this column would ( apart from the influence of the only partially open end and of the jet ) have been that of a pendulum 1 foot long , and slow enough , therefore , to allow of the motions of the jet ( made visible by added colour ) to be followed by the eye .
It was readily seen that the lateral motion of the jet was in the same phase as the velocity of the oscillating column , that is , the jet was in the central position when the displacement of the column was a maximum .
It was noticed that , in order to get the greatest amplitude of oscillation , the distance between the jet orifice and the lip D had to be greater for water than for air .
This probably depends on the difference between the kinematic viscosity of the two fluids , which affects the distance from the orifice at which * The late Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet , in one of his letters to me on this subject , stated that he had found the alteration of pitch with wind pressure differed for different types of organ pipe , being greater for pipes of square than for circular sections , and greater for stopped than open pipes .
+ ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 95 .
Wind Pressure on the Pitch of Organ Pipes .
the jet breaks up , for it was noticed also that no sustained oscillation , or only one of very small amplitude , was set up either in water or air unless the jet broke up before reaching the lip .
Fig. 1 .
For the purposes of measurement , another form of oscillator , shown in fig. 1 , was employed .
A parallel-sided glass tank was divided into two equal vertical limbs Ai , A2 , by a double partition Bi , B2 , reaching to within 2 inches of the floor .
Between Bj and B2 a brass plate CD , of the same transverse Mr. A. Mallock .
No on the Effect of dimension as the tank , could be adjusted to any desired height above the orifice E of the jet , and the whole tank was capable of lateral adjustment , so that the undisturbed flow of the jet could be made to strike the sharp edge of D. Water under pressure was let into a comparatively large chamber F , below the jet orifice , and from this a pipe led to the pressure gauge Gr .
Hi , H2 are drain pipes , leading by indiarubber tubes to the sink .
The level of the exits of these pipes could be adjusted , and thus the rate at which fluid was withdrawn from the oscillator could be made equal to the inflow from jet , the mean level of the free surface remaining constant .
With this apparatus experiments were made for the simultaneous determination of\#151 ; T , the period of the water oscillation .
a , the amplitude of the water oscillation .
h , the mean level of the water in the oscillator .
v , the velocity of the jet .
The measurements of T , a , and h were made as follows : The vertical rod K , provided with a scale and vernier , carried a cross arm L , on which three stout pointed copper wires M1 } M2 , M3 , were fixed so that Mi , M2 were close to the centre line of one limb of the oscillator and M3 in the centre line of the other .
For the determination of T , a circuit , including a resistance , was carried through Mi , M2 , and a chronograph , on which a clock recorded seconds .
This circuit was closed when the fluid touched the ends of Mi , M2 , which were placed at such a level as to be periodically immersed .
A specimen of the records thus obtained is shown in fig. 2 .
160 180 OscilLaticms zoo nauu I M \#187 ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; KX4 M-M UU\gt ; UM M \gt ; i j j 1 1 | L_ \lt ; \#171 ; \gt ; \lt ; \lt ; t .
1 ; j ; \#166 ; ; _\#187 ; ; i ; ; i ; .
80 90 Oscillations 100 Fig. 2 .
' The measurement of a was made by putting Mi , M2 in a telephone circuit .
The ends of the wires were raised until contact with the fluid ceased , and then lowered until the contacts were heard again , the mean reading on the scale on K being taken as the maximum water-level .
In measurements of h the telephone circuit was through Mi and M3 .
The ends of these wires were on the same level , and , but for the action of capillarity , when that level coincided with the mean level of the water in the oscillator , the duration of the telephone current would have been infinitely short , the circuit being broken at Mi at the time it was closed at M3 , and vice Wind Pressure on the Pitch of Organ Pipes .
In practice h was taken from the mean reading of scale , at the position at which the contact ceased to he audible as the wires were raised , and was heard again when they were lowered .
The difference between the two readings was about 0*01 inch/ The velocity v of the jet was taken as v/ ( 2yH ) , where H is the head of water equivalent to the pressure indicated in the gauge G. In this way a large number of experiments were carried out determining the period and amplitude of the oscillation for various values of v and h. In each set of experiments it was the intention to keep li constant , while v was varied .
In practice it was found impracticable to do this exactly ( on account of the time required for the necessary adjustments of the drain flow ) , but the differences in hwere small ( only 1 or 2 per cent. ) , and the periods of oscillation were corrected for the error A by taking the period for TA as T*-W(irra)- The results thus obtained are shown in Diagram I , which gives the percentage variation from the natural frequency in terms of the jet velocity , when h had the value best suited ( as ascertained by trial ) to the dimensions of the oscillator .
The natural period was taken as that of a pendulum whose length was twice the mean depth of the fluid measured from the surface to half the distance between the jet orifice and the lip D ( fig. 2 ) .
The period thus obtained was probably slightly longer than the true natural period , but this is unimportant , as the object of the experiments is to exhibit the variation of frequency with jet velocity , and not the determination of the absolute pitch .
Mr. A. Mallock .
No on the Effect of For the determination of the directions taken by the jet at the different phases of T , a few fibres of silk were cemented to the jet orifice , and spark photographs were taken while the oscillations were going on .
The phase at which the exposure was made was determined by putting an electromagnet and switch in circuit with Mi , M2 .
The action of the electromagnet was to close a subsidiary gap in Leyden jar circuit .
The wires Mi , M2 , having been placed at such a level that the water touched them at the desired phase of T , the switch was closed by hand before this phase was reached , and the exposure made as the water completed the circuit .
As nearly as could be observed the displacement of the jet from its mean position was proportional to the velocity of the oscillating flow .
The photographic results are given in fig. 3 * Reference has already been made to Lord Rayleigh 's experiments on organ pipes .
His results are stated as variation of frequency in terms of wind pressure .
These when expressed as percentage variation of frequency in terms of jet velocity are given in Diagram II .
In both diagrams the curves are of a similar type .
Where the jet velocity is small , the frequency is less than the natural frequency , but exceeds it as the velocity increases .
In both also the character of the frequency curve * [ The photographs themselves are not reproduced , as their appearance is disfigured by the irregular film of water which clings to the glass above the free surface , but two of them were shown on the screen .
] .
Wind Pressure on the Pitch of Organ Pipes .
suggests that there would be a definite limit to the possible increase , though the conditions of experiment prevented that limit being closely approached .
I b*- a ) \lt ; -H .
rj * H Atth\lt ; tones be v\lt ; 'besid ilocit : \#163 ; 5 tflf hear les , of .fund tar iment are d. fi- 20 30 40 50 60 10 80 90 100 no 120 130 140 Jet velocity \#151 ; feet per sec. Diagram II .
The explanation of the action of the jet in producing the observed results may be put very simply .
It has been shown that the phase of the displacement of the jet from its central position agrees with that of the velocity of the oscillating fluid , so that its momentum while tending to increase the amplitude has no effect of the first order on the period .
The jet , however , reacts on the period in two ways : Firstly , it acts as a partial barrier between the two limbs of the oscillator , or , in the case of an organ pipe , between the interior of the pipe and the air outside , and thus reduces the effective openness of the passage , thereby lowering the frequency .
Secondly , at the place where the jet breaks up and changes from a laminar form to a convoluted mass of eddies , a certain quantity of the fluid belonging to the oscillating flow is caught up in their folds and accelerated at the expense of energy of the jet .
This tends to increase the frequency .
For consider a simple vibrating system : a mass M , for instance , suspended by a spring of strength S ; the natural period of such a system is 277\/ ( M/ S ) .
Xow suppose M to be divided into two parts , say Mi and M2 , and of these let M2 be accelerated by some exterior source of energy , so applied that the pi essuie between Mi and M2 remains constant .
The natural period is now 2ttv/ ( Mi/ S ) .
In the same way the action of the jet increases the frequency by diminishing the effective mass which has to be accelerated at the expense of the potential energy .
hen the jet velocity is small , not only is its eddy-making capacity Prof. H. H. Jeffcott .
reduced , but the break-up of the jet occurs further from the orifice , and for the lowest pressure not until after the lip of the oscillator or pipe has been passed .
In this case , as was before mentioned , only a small amplitude of vibration is maintained , and the effect of the dynamic stiffness of the jet preponderates .
Thus the fact that low wind or water pressure depresses the pitch , while higher pressures raise it , is accounted for , although it is impossible to calculate the amount from purely dynamical data ( viz. , velocity , pressure , density , and viscosity ) , as no theory is at present capable of dealing with the formation of eddies or the final result of fluid instability .
The Periods of Lateral Vibration of Loaded Shafts.\#151 ; The Rational Derivation of Dunkerley s Empirical Rule for Determining Whirling Speeds .
By H. H. Jeffcott , B.A , B.A.I. , Professor of Engineering , Royal College of Science for Ireland .
( Communicated by Prof. W. McF .
Orr , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1918 .
) The calculation of the whirling speeds of loaded shafts of turbines and turbine-driven machinery is usually rendered complex by reason of the varying distribution of the load along the length of the shaft , as well as by variations from place to place in the shaft 's diameter .
Of the several methods in use for the estimation of the first whirling speed in such cases , probably the best known is that based on the Dunkerley hypothesis .
This method , which was put forward by Dunkerley in 1893* % and illustrated by him in many applications , consists in dividing the load into a convenient number of parts acting at appropriate positions along the shaft , and determining by means of simple formulae the whirling speed for each such part of the mass regarded as acting alone .
It is then assumed that the sum of the squares of the reciprocals of these partial whirling speeds is equal to the square of the reciprocal of the first whirling speed for the whole load .
Expressed algebraically , if \amp ; \gt ; i , to2 , cos , etc. , be the whirling speeds of the shaft loaded in turn with the separate masses regarded as acting alone , and * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 185 , pp. 279-360 ( 1894 ) , especially SS28 , 61 , 62 .

