315* 1886 .
] The Coefficient of Viscosity of Air .
shells , by surface density multiplied by distance between the component layers .
When the two plates have attained electrical equilibrium with surrounding objects , the potentials just outside the layers will be equal ( e.y. , by electrolytic connexion as in Sir W. Thomson 's experiment of a zinc and a copper plate connected by a drop of water)* but the potentials of the metals inside will be different , each being less by the moment of its layer .
The zinc will therefore be at a lower potential than the copper .
If a metallic connexion is now made between the metals , positive electricity will flow from the copper to the zinc until the potentials of the metals are equalised , and the difference of potentials of the air outside the plates wiU now be exactly opposite to that which subsisted between the metals before metallic contact .
There is this difference between the view just mentioned and that of pure contact difference which was examined , S 37 , that here the metallic connexion involves a running down of electric energy , while there it involved an addition of energy from without .
41 .
The explanation by superficial double layers once accepted , there is no longer any reason for retaining contact of the two metals as one of the conditions necessary for the setting up of this action between a metal and its surrounding atmosphere .
We may hold that when a piece of clean zinc , or a piece of clean copper , kept insulated , is introduced into an atmosphere capable under favourable circumstances of acting chemically upon it , a change of a chemical or semi-chemical character is thereby initiated over its surface , which involves a transformation of energy , though in minute quantity , and which proceeds until a state of equilibrium is established , as indicated by the setting up of a certain definite difference of electrical potential between the metal and the gas near it , but outside the sphere of the action .
VI .
" The Coefficient of Viscosity of Air .
Appendix .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , P.R.S. Received November 15 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) In the previous experiments by the author on this subject the coefficient of viscosity of air was determined from observations of the logarithmic decrement of amplitude of a torsionally vibrating wire , the lower extremity of which was soldered to the centre of a horizontal bar .
From the bar were suspended vertically and at equal distances from the wire a pair of cylinders , or a pair of spheres .
The distances of the cylinders or spheres from the wire were such that the ^16 The Coefficient of Viscosity of Air .
[ Nov. 18 , main , part of the loss of energy resulting from the friction of the air may be characterised as being due to the pushing of the air .
A small part , however , of the whole logarithmic decrement was due to the rotation of the spheres or cylinders about their axes , and Professor Stokes has kindly added to the paper a note in which are deduced formulas which serve to correct for this effect of rotation .
Acting on a suggestion of Professor Stokes , the author proceeded to determine the coefficient of viscosity of air by suspending a hollow paper cylinder about 2 feet in length and \#163 ; foot in diameter , so that its axis should coincide as to its direction with the axis of rotation .
The cylinder was supported by a light hollow horizontal bar , about 7 inches in length , to the centre of which the vertically suspended wire was soldered .
The wire was set in torsional vibration , and the logarithmic decrement determined with the same precautions as before .
The mode of eliminating the effect of the internal friction of the metal wire , and also the effect of the air on the ends of the cylinder , is fully described in the paper .
The following were the results Vibration-period Coefficient of viscosity Temperature in degrees in seconds .
of air , p. Centigrade .
3-6038 0-00017708 12-225 8-8656 0-00017783 13-075 In these experiments the loss of energy arising from the friction of the air may be characterised as being due to the dragging of the air , and.it is very remarkable that there should be such close agreement in the values of p as determined by this and the previous methods .
The mean value of the coefficient of viscosity of air obtained by this method is 0*00017746 at a temperature of 12*650 ' 0 .
, and the mean value deduced from the previous experiments when proper correction has been made for the rotation of the spheres and cylinders about their axes is 0-00017711 at a temperature of 11-79 ' C. The above values of p are given in C.G-.S .
units .
The author expresses his great obligation to Professor Stokes for his valuable suggestions and advice during the progress of the investigation .

