136 The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
Part III.\#151 ; The \#166 ; Retarding Effect of Carbon Dioxide on Respiration .
By Franklin Kidd , B.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge ; Cambridge University Frank Smart Student .
( Communicated by Dr. F. F. Blackman , F.R.S. Deceived August 26 , 1915 .
) PAGE Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Section I.\#151 ; The Complexity of the Respiratory Processes in Plants ... .
" II.\#151 ; Methods of Experiment ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " III.\#151 ; The Influence of Carbon Dioxide upon Anaerobic Respiration in Seeds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" IV.\#151 ; The Influence of Carbon Dioxide upon Normal Respiration in the Presence of Oxygen in Seeds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
n V.\#151 ; The Influence of Carbon Dioxide upon Respiration ( Aerobic and Anaerobic ) in Leaves .
Floating and Starvation Respiration ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " VI.\#151 ; Further Light upon the Chemical Mechanism of Respiration in Plants ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" VII.\#151 ; Carbon Dioxide Narcosis ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" VIII.\#151 ; Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Introduction .
In Parts I and II of these researches* we have been led to the conclusion that the resting condition of the moist seed , so often occurring in nature , is primarily a phase of autonarcosis under the action of the carbon dioxide produced by the seed itself .
It has been shown that retardation and suspension of normal activity in plant protoplasm is produced by carbon dioxide in conditions otherwise entirely favourable to growth and during a stage normally characterised by vigorous growth .
Attention has already been called to the striking analogy existing between the dormancy of the non-growing moist seed under the influence of carbon dioxide , whether maturing on the parent plant or showing delayed germination in the soil , and the dormancy of the unfertilised ovum .
In both cases apparently simple causes are found sufficient to produce a change in the cell conditions owing to which the cell or tissue passes from dormancy into active growth by cell division .
In neither case are the factors conditioning dormancy on the one hand and growth by cell division on the other as yet clearly established .
A knowledge of these factors , however , must be of great * " The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide in the Maturation , Dormancy and Germination of Seeds.\#151 ; Parts I and II , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , pp. 408 and 609 .
The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
137 importance both in physiology and medicine .
In studying the phenomenon of carbon dioxide inhibition , as exhibited by dormant seeds , we seem to be in the presence of that fundamental question in physiology , the question of the cause of growth .
Our problem , then , in these researches is clearly to determine what physiological changes accompany the inhibition of growth under the influence of carbon dioxide .
Two hypotheses may be put forward .
The inhibitory action of carbon dioxide may be the indirect result of a carbon dioxide effect upon the physical state of the protoplasm , for example , a change in its colloidal structure , its water-holding capacity , its permeability .
On the other hand it may be of the nature of a direct chemical action producing a change in some phase of metabolism .
Work to determine how far effects of the first class actually exist is still in progress .
In the present paper one striking effect of the second class will be dealt with , namely , the retarding effect of carbon dioxide upon respiration .
That oxidation and respiration are necessary for growth by cell division in plants is known .
With regard to the animal ovum Loeb finds that oxidations are a controlling factor in the stimulus to growth , whether by natural or artificial fertilisation .
The breaking up of the dormant condition of the egg and the beginning of cell division is accompanied by an essential increase in respiration .
Should this increase be prevented either by a small dose of potassium cyanide or by the absence of oxygen , fertilisation , whether artificial or natural , has no effect , and growth does not ensue .
It is a simple assumption at the outset that the presence of carbon dioxide may interfere with the forward movement of the respiratory process producing CO2 .
From much recent work it is clear , however , that respiration is by no means a simple process , but that it includes a complicated chain of reactions .
A short reference therefore of some results already obtained in work upon plant respiration and of the conclusions based upon them , will be useful before proceeding to consider the results described in the following pages .
Section I.\#151 ; The Complexity of the Respiratory Processes Plants .
The discovery , first made by Kollo in 1798 but not widely accepted for many years , that plant tissues will produce CO2 in the absence of oxygen as a vital process , opened up a promising line of enquiry under the influence of a leading idea , namely , that this anaerobic CO2 production was intimately associated with processes of normal respiration .
Pfeffer believed that this anaerobic CO2 production , which he termed intramolecular respiration , was a normal process in plant respiration , being genetically connected with sequent Mr. F. Kidd .
oxidations by the oxygen of the atmosphere under ordinary conditions .
Intramolecular respiration was thought to be essentially the same as alcoholic fermentation .
There appeared , however , objections to Pfeffer 's theory , notably that the amount of C02 produced in anaerobic respiration was found not to bear a definite relation to the amount of C02 produced in normal respiration , that is to say a relation of one to three , as should be expected from Pfeffer 's view .
Further , plant tissues did not appear to have the power of oxidising alcohol .
In 1903 this line of speculation received a renewed stimulus .
Stoklasa and Czerny reported the extraction of an enzyme from beetroots , potatoes , peas and other plant tissues , and also from animal tissues such as the liver , heart , lungs and kidney , which they termed zymase and which appeared quite similar to Buchner 's enzyme , extracted from yeast a few years previously .
Following these discoveries , attention was again turned to the study of intramolecular respiration , but in the result the proportion of carbon dioxide to alcohol formed in anaerobic conditions could not be found to fulfil the requirements of the theory which compared the processes of anaerobic carbon dioxide production strictly to those of fermentation in the presence of zymase .
The amount of C02 produced generally exceeded the amount theoretically required in relation to the alcohol formed .
It was concluded that the C02 evolved in anaerobic respiration arose in varying degrees from other sources as well as from the action of zymase .
At the present day , with the researches of Blackman , Palladin , Deleano , and others , we have advanced to a more critical view of the various processes underlying plant respiration .
It has been recognised that under the general heading of respiration we are dealing with the combined result of various distinct processes .
A leading distinction has been pointed out by Blackman between that respiration on the one hand which iuvolves the breakdown of sugar , fat , or organic acid , which he has termed floating respiration , and on the other hand the essential respiration of protoplasm .
The present position of research with regard to the mechanism of plant respiration appears to be that we find ourselves faced with a complexity in time , on the one hand , in which a chain of sequent reactions is involved and on the other hand with a complexity in space in which various types of material are being simultaneously broken down along different paths .
The present researches confirm this conception .
Section II.\#151 ; Methods of Experiment .
In these experiments , which have been directed to determine the influence of carbon dioxide upon respiration , the general method adopted was as follows. .
The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
Experiments were conducted in parallel series , each parallel series consisting of a number of experiments set up at the same time with varying percentages of CO2 present and a control .
The respiring material was enclosed in pressure flasks of about 1000 c.c. capacity closed by rubber corks or by specially constructed ground glass stoppers and a mercury seal .
The desired atmospheres were made up , after evacuating the flasks with material in place , from cylinders of compressed gas , measured in by means of a manometer .
Nitrogen was used as the residual gas in order to conduct all the experiments at atmospheric pressure .
In the case of seeds a little wet sterilised sand was put at the bottom of the flasks , the amount of sand and water being carefully equalised for experiments of the same series , and the dry seeds were set on this .
Before the first gas estimations were made a short interval of time was allowed for a physical equilibrium to be reached between the water in the flasks and the partial pressures of C02 introduced .
In the case of leaves a longer period was allowed before the first analysis or pressure reading .
A difficulty encountered in the experiments was to obtain accurate measurements of small increases of C02 relatively to large partial pressures of the same gas initially present .
Two different methods were employed in estimating the C02 produced .
It was calculated from analyses of small samples withdrawn at intervals , or , in the case of the anaerobic experiments , it was calculated from the increased pressures created in the flask .
Manometers are necessary in either case , since to obtain comparable results from analyses the pressures of the gas mixtures must also be known .
Open mercury gauges were used and corrections made for the barometer variation .
The highest pressure changes recorded were not more than of an atmosphere , i.e. , 76 mm. The gas analyses were made with Haldane 's apparatus , 10 c.c. samples being withdrawn , that is from 1 to 2 per cent , of the total gas present .
The withdrawal of these samples , though it does not alter the proportions of the various gases present , decreases their active mass or pressure .
With regard to carbon dioxide this decrease is always more than compensated by the C02 evolved in respiration .
Only where large percentages of C02 are present does the amount lost in any analysis come near to equalising the amount produced by seeds or leaves in the interval since the previous analysis .
Generally speaking , then , the pressures of C02 , the effect of which upon respiration we wish to find , rise continually while an experiment lasts .
This rise is determined by the same readings which give us the amount of C02 produced in respiration , so that the data obtained are sufficient for us to calculate figures for the effect of any constant pressure of carbon dioxide .
It is , of course , the value of the active mass or absolute pressure of carbon Mr. F. Kidd .
dioxide present which must be considered as the effective value in producing the observed retardation of respiration in any case .
In our experiments , however , in view of the fact that the changes in total pressure are relatively small , we have taken the percentage figure for carbon dioxide as expressing its effective value .
A correction for this error would slightly steepen our curves .
It must be further pointed out that it is the tissue-pressure of C02 which is ultimately effective .
The tissue-pressure will be higher than the external pressure of CO2 , according to the rate of CO2 production in the tissues .
The data obtained are sufficient to correct for this .
As it seemed doubtful whether sufficient accuracy in observation had been obtained to make this correction worth while , it has not been made .
The result of such a correction would be again to slightly steepen our curves .
The results are given throughout in cubic centimetres of gas at 0 ' C. and 760 mm. pressure of mercury .
Section III.\#151 ; The Influence of Carbon Dioxide upon Anaerobic Respiration in Seeds .
I11 the following experiments living seeds in germinating conditions and also maturing seeds were used as material , the effect upon anaerobic respiration ( that is to say , CO2 production in tissues in the absence of oxygen ) of increased concentrations of C02 in an atmosphere was determined .
Table I.\#151 ; Showing the Eetarding Influence of Increased Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide upon the Eat of Anaerobic Eespiration in Peas ( without Testas ) , otherwise in Germinating Conditions save for the Absence of Oxygen .
Initial C02 in atmosphere of N2 and C02 .
Total anaerobic C02 production .
Final co2 in atmospheres .
After 22 hours .
After 50 hours .
After 72 hours .
After 146 hours .
per cent. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. per cent. 0 16 33 58 171 14 28 9 27 41 111 35 48 3 8 13 45 50 Conducted in dim diffuse light .
Early Sunrise peas , without lestas , set dry on wet sand , 45 c.c. sand , 21 c.c. tap water , 10 peas in each experiment .
C02 production estimated from analysis .
Temperature , 20 *5 ' C. thermostat .
In the foregoing Table ( I ) of results it will be at once seen that increased concentrations of CO2 have a marked effect in decreasing the anaerobic The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
production of COs by peas otherwise in germinating conditions .
The results of two further similar series of parallel experiments are given in the following Tables II and III .
In one of these series green maturing peas just Table II.\#151 ; Showing the Retarding Influence of Increased Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide upon the Rate of Anaerobic Respiration in Peas ( with Testas ) , otherwise in Germinating Conditions save for the Absence of Oxygen .
Initial C02 in atmospheres of N2 and C02 .
Total anaerobic C02 production calculated from increased pressures .
After 17 hours .
After 23 hours .
x^fter 1 41 hours .
1 After 50 hours .
After 1 65 hours .
After 89 hours .
per cent. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0 10-3 19 -8 61 -3 68 -8 87-8 108 10 7 -5 11 5 37 -5 51 -5 76 92 20 9 12 35-1 42 -5 56 -5 72 40 5 -2 8 32 -7 40 53 -4 63 " 5 60 3 7 6-8 30 -8 33 43 -5 49-6 80 2-5 3 -7 30 7 31 5 42 '2 53 -1 Conducted in dim diffuse light .
In each experiment 25 Early Sunrise peas , with testas , weight 8 grm. , set dry in 12 c.c. distilled water , being just sufficient to allow them to fully swell .
Peas and flasks sterilised with bromine .
COo production estimated from increased pressure by manometer .
Three hours allowed before first reading .
Temperature , 20 ' C , thermostat .
Table III.\#151 ; Showing the Eetarding Influence of Increased Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide upon the rate of Anaerobic Inspiration in Green Peas Peas taken before drying from Living Pods ) .
Initial COv in atmospheres of N and CO. , .
' Total anaerobic C02 production .
Final C02 in atmospheres after 65 hours .
After 27 hours .
; After 65 hours .
From pressures .
From analyses .
From pressures .
per cent. c.c. c.c. c.c. per cent. 1 55 103 99 9 '6 10 *75 48 107 101 18 -65 26 *6 46 88 85 32 -45 79 -o 36 \#151 ; 63 83 -9 1 Conducted in dim diffuse light .
In each experiment , 25 fully swelled green peas removed from testa 24 hours before experiment , and 2 c.c. tap water .
C02 production calculated ( 1 ) from analyses , ( 2 ) from increased pressures in flasks .
A very fair agreement will be observed in the figures in the Table obtained by the two methods of estimating C02 produced .
Temperature 25 '5 C. , by thermostat .
Mr. F. Kidd .
taken from the parent plant were used as material , in the other dried peas , set in germinating conditions save for the absence of oxygen .
In both these cases it is seen that the anaerobic C02 production has been reduced in relation to the amount of carbon dioxide present in the atmospheres .
Quite similar results were also obtained with white mustard seeds .
In the foregoing experiments , the first fact which stands clearly out is that the anaerobic output of C02 varies in some inverse relation to the amount of C02 present in an atmosphere .
It would clearly be possible to attribute these graded productions of C02 to different degrees of disorganisation of the C02 producing mechanism .
If any such permanent disorganisation is produced its effect should become visible in lowered respiration when the seeds are removed from the excess of C02 back to pure nitrogen .
This question was tested experimentally .
Estimations of C02 production were continued after the material had been returned to nitrogen or air free from C02 .
It was found as the result that the C02 production , in any parallel series of experiments , returned to an equality in all cases with that of the control in which no C02 had been present from the beginning ( Tables IY and Y ) .
Table IY.\#151 ; Showing that Normal Respiratory Activity is Resumed after Removal of Retarding Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide .
Initial C02 in Anaerobic C02 production .
In the presence of C02 concentrations .
2 aiiu .
co2 .
Estimated from increased pressure after Checked hJ analyses after 90 hrs .
Estimated by analyses after further 47 hrs .
19 hrs .
24 hrs .
31 hrs .
44 hrs .
51 hrs .
67 hrs .
90 hrs .
per cent. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0 27 33 39 47 60 66 83 89 41 10 21 25 30 37 48 52 69 74 44 20 19 21 26 32 42 45 60 62 43 40 14 16 20 24 33 35 48 46 43 80 9 10 13 16 24 26 39 34 50 After removal of C02 concentrations .
Conducted in dim diffuse light .
In each experiment 25 Early Sunrise peas , dry weight 8 grm. set dry in 12 c.c. boiled distilled H20 , being just sufficient to allow them to fully swell .
Peas and flasks sterilised with bromine .
Two hours allowed before first reading .
Temperature 20 ' first 20 hours , after that laboratory temperature 16-18 ' C. The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
Table V.\#151 ; Showing that Normal Respiratory Activity is Resumed after Removal of Retarding Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide .
Initial CO. in No. COo production .
Seeds used germinating finally in air .
( Anaerobically ) in ; atmospheres of N2 containing various partial pressures of C02 .
( Anaerobically ) in nitrogen , replacing former atmospheres in each experiment .
( Aerobically ) in air replacing former atmospheres in each experiment .
21 hrs .
36 hrs .
45 hrs .
21 hrs .
43 hrs .
Germination , per cent. per cent. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0 33 49 68 26 97 92 10 29 39 51 31 103 96 20 22 32 46 27 99 76 50 18 29 88 24 90 92 Conducted in dim diffuse light .
In each experiment , 25 peas with testas , 8 grm. dry weight , set dry with 12 c.c. distilled water .
Anaerobic C02 production estimated from pressure increases , aerobic from analyses .
Temperature of experiments 20 ' C. thermostat .
Peas sterilised in 1/ 500 bromine for half an hour .
Flasks were also sterilised with bromine solution .
These experiments make it clear that the results so far obtained cannot be regarded as due to a permanent injury produced by the increased concentrations of carbon dioxide used .
Thus it is seen in Table IY that , while the amounts of carbon dioxide produced by the respiring seeds under the influence of rising percentages of CO2 form a falling series in some inverse relation to these rising concentrations , yet when subsequently the increased percentages of CO2 are removed and the conditions in all the experiments equalised , the amount of C02 respired by the seeds in each then returns to an equality , as the figures in the sixth column of the Table will show .
The conclusion is reached , therefore , that the effect of increased concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere is to reduce the CO2 production in aerobic conditions without destroying the potentiality of the process returning to the normal on the removal of the retarding CO2 pressures .
This conclusion being established in its general aspect , it is now of interest to examine our results more in detail and quantitatively .
In fig. 1 the results of the series of experiments given in Table IY are shown graphically , so as to bring out the depressant action of CO2 .
The curves 1-4 represent total CO2 evolved in cubic centimetres after 19 , 31 , 51 , 90 hours respectively as influenced by the concentration of CO2 present .
Each vertical series of points comes from one experiment .
In plotting these , Mr. F. Kidd .
the mean concentration of C02 between the initial and final concentrations for any period between two analyses is taken as the effective pressure influencing C02 production during that period .
This figure enables one to read values for C02 production corresponding to any concentrations of C02 .
% of C02 in N2 at one abmos .
pressure Fig. 1.\#151 ; The retarding effect of carbon dioxide upon anaerobic C02 production , and the recovery after the removal of C02 concentrations .
( See Table IV .
) 1 , 2 , 3 , 4\#151 ; Total C02 production while under influence of C02 concentrations after 19 , 31 , 51 , 90 hours respectively .
5 Total C02 production during 47 hours after removal of C02 concentrations .
A , B , C , D , E\#151 ; Series of readings from five parallel experiments .
It is important to know how far the action of C02 upon anaerobic C02 production in these experiments is a constant retarding effect , and not merely confined to the first few hours .
In fig. 2 the same results ( Table IV ) are given in different form , the total C02 evolved being plotted against time for two concentrations of C02 , 0 and 20 per cent , ( the values for these constant concentrations being taken from fig. 1 ) .
From these curves.the curves for rate of C02 production plotted against time are deduced , and show at once that the depressant action of C02 is a continuous effect .
In this ease the average depressant effect of C02 during the whole 90 hours of experiments is 0-6 , taking the control as 1 .
Both the first and the second 45 hours cc 's The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
145 of this period , if taken separately , also give 06 in either case as the average value for the depressant action of C02 .
Figs. 1 and 2 also show the return to equal rates of C02 evolution in the experiments of this series after the removal of the various depressant concentrations of C02 .
Time in hours Fig. 2.\#151 ; The retarding effect of carbon dioxide upon anaerobic C02 production and the recovery after the removal of C02 concentrations .
( See Table IV and fig. 1 .
) Curves A and B\#151 ; Total C02 produced in the presence of 0 per cent. C02 and 20 per cent. C02 respectively .
Curves C and D\#151 ; Rate of C02 production in the presence of 0 per cent. C02 and 20 per cent. C02 respectively [ cubic centimetres per 5 hours magnified 20 times ] .
The fluctuations are due to laboratory temperature changes .
The effect of C02 appearing thus to be constant , we must be able to express in a general formula the retarding effect of different concentrations of C02 .
Mr. F. Kidd .
Table VI .
COo required to reduce anaerobic respiration from 1 in pure nitrogen to 0*8 .
0-6 .
0-5 .
0*4 .
0-35 .
90 hours curve per cent. 7 per cent. 23 per cent. 38 per cent. 72 per cent. 100 51 " 7 23 36 62 85 31 " 8 23 38 55 74 19 " 8 24 35 56 74 Average 75 23 -3 36 -75 60 -75 83 *2 Table VI , derived from the results plotted in fig. 1 , gives the fractional depression of CO2 production ( taking that in absence of CO2 = unity ) for different concentrations of C02 .
This Table shows the results for all the four time curves in fig. 1 to be fairly concordant .
These average values , supported by average values similarly obtained from other sets of experiments , are plotted in fig. 3 , which thus represents for our experiments the general expression for the depressant action of C02 upon anaerobic C02 production .
Fig. 3 .
General expression for depressant action of carbon dioxide upon anaerobic C02 production .
The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
14 7 In a consideration of this curve ( fig. 3 ) the fact stands out that the regular retardation of CO2 production does not appear to be towards zero .
The simplest interpretation of this , perhaps , is to assume two processes concerned , one of which is regularly retarded to inhibition , the other being differently or not at all affected .
This assumption is in line with our present knowledge with regard to " boating " and " protoplasmic " respiration .
It is possible that only boating respiration as opposed to protoplasmic respiration is suppressed by carbon dioxide .
The results of experiments described in a following section lend support to this view .
It is clear in this case that until the magnitude of the protoplasmic respiration is known we cannot determine the base line , and therefore the exact form of the curve expressing the depression of boating respiration considered alone .
The statement may be made at present as a useful formula that to about 50 per cent. CO2 the depression of CO2 production is roughly proportional the square root of the CO2 concentration .
Section IV.\#151 ; The Influence of Carbon Dioxide upon Normal Respiration the Presence of Oxygen { in Seeds ) .
Experiments are next described which were directed to determine whether a similar depression is produced in the case of aerobic respiration under the inbuence of increased concentrations of carbon dioxide .
The method adopted in the following experiments was the same as that already described , save that 20 per cent , of oxygen was always present .
The amount of respiration was measured both by oxygen intake and CO2 output estimated from analyses , giving the respiratory quotient .
The percentage of oxygen in the atmosphere , it will be seen , must decrease throughout the experiments .
This has not appeared , however , to distort the results obtained .
As has been shown by Stich* and others , the percentage of oxygen must be greatly decreased before the rate of respiration is affected .
The experiments were terminated before the percentage of oxygen had fallen to such a degree as to limit respiration in this way .
The following Tables give the results :\#151 ; * 02 was decreased to 3 per cent , before any effect was observed with seedlings .
Mr. F. Kidd .
Table VII.\#151 ; Showing the Retarding Influence of Increased Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide upon the Rate of Normal Respiration in Germinating White Mustard Seeds , measured by C02 Production and Oxygen Consumption.41 After 14 hr a. C~C ' c.c. U2 loss Bespiratory quotient ... ... .
After 40 hr8.C-C-C^gaia c.c. \lt ; J2 loss Bespiratory quotient ... Concentrations of carbon dioxide initially present in atmospheres .
0 per cent. 10 per cent. 20 per cent. 30 per cent. 40 per cent. 80 per cent. 58 48 38 33 26 17 71 57 49 45 38 32 0-82 0-84 0-77 0-73 0-69 0-53 173 158 96 75 61 41 197 185 122 104 97 90 0-87 0-85 0-75 0-72 0-63 0-45 Conducted in dim diffuse light .
20 per cent , oxygen present initially in each experiment .
15 grm. of seed set dry on 50 c.c. damp sand and 10 c.c. tap water in each experiment .
Eesults obtained from analyses .
Temperature of experiments 25 *5 ' C. , by thermostat .
Table VIII.\#151 ; Showing the Retarding Influence of Increased Concentrations of Carbon Dioxide upon the Rate of Normal Respiration in Green Peas , Measured by C02 Production and Oxygen Consumption .
Concentrations of carbon dioxide initially present in atmospheres .
0 per cent. 10 per cent. 25 per cent. After 24 hours CC ' ^formed cc .
02 loss \#151 ; = 1 -05 66 ^ = 0 -85 50 \#151 ; = 0 -85 45 After 43 hours cc ' cc .
02 loss \#151 ; = 1 07 92 \#151 ; = 0 -88 85 \#151 ; = 0 -84 72 Conducted in dim diffuse light .
In each experiment , 15 fully swelled green peas , weight 7 *6 grm. , removed from testas immediately before .
Besults obtained from analyses .
Temperature of experiment 25 *5 ' C. , by thermostat .
The above experiments show that the rate of normal respiration in the presence of excess of oxygen is retarded by the presence of carbon dioxide .
This is a remarkable result .
The values obtained in the experiments of Table VII when plotted give curves similar to those obtained in anaerobic * The seeds used in this and other similar experiments with oxygen present obeyed the laws of carbon dioxide inhibition already demonstrated in Parts 1 and II of these researches .
The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
149 conditions .
The depressant action of C02 up to 50 per cent , varies roughly with the square root of the concentration .
Sufficient work along this line has not yet been done to allow us to draw any definite quantitative conclusions .
The general result , however , seems of importance , since in much experimental work upon respiration there must have been present sufficient C02 in the respiring tissues to depress the function appreciably and give misleading evaluations of the respiration .
They have further a significant bearing upon the hypothesis of Crocker and others already referred to , which imputes dormancy when it occurs in certain moist seeds to lack of oxygen , on the grounds that their respiration is found to be reduced by the presence of the testa , the removal of which causes a rise in the rate of respiration and immediate germination .
For , as has been shown , the C02 content of such seeds\#151 ; in which , even in the absence of oxygen , C02 production would proceed anaerobically\#151 ; will be raised by the presence of the testa limiting gaseous diffusion , and for this reason alone , even in excess of oxygen , the respiration would be reduced , as was found in the experiments of these workers .
Section V.\#151 ; The Influence of Carbon Dioxide upon Respiration ( and Anaerobic ) in Leaves .
Floating and Starvation Respiration .
It has been pointed out that while carbon dioxide regularly retards respiration it does not , even in the highest concentration used , completely inhibit it .
An interpretation of this result has been suggested above on the basis of Blackman 's distinction between " protoplasmic " and " floating " respiration .
Blackman has shown that in the general respiration of a plant tissue we have at least two quite distinct types of respiration proceeding simultaneously : in the first place , a floating respiration , involving essentially an oxidation of carbohydrate or fat to carbon dioxide and water ; secondly , a permanent substratum of " protoplasmic " respiration which is the necessary minimum of life .
This is revealed , acting alone , in conditions of starvation .
Seeds cannot be reduced to a condition of starvation .
Leaves have been used , therefore , in order to find if any difference exists between the action of C02 upon floating and carbohydrate respiration respectively .
Most leaves can be quickly reduced to a starvation condition in the absence of light , and then show the typical protoplasmic respiration of Blackman .
The same general method was used here as already described , except that seeds were now replaced by cut leaves in the flasks .
Several difficulties were encountered , the disturbance of cutting the leaf , the rapidity of starch disappearance , which renders it difficult to maintain leaves fully fed for the desired period of time , the variable nature of the material with regard to Mr. F. Kidd .
age , water-content , stomatal aperture , and the consequent uncertainty in obtaining parallel lots such as are required for this method .
Owing to these difficulties the results obtained were not so regular as in the case of seeds .
It appeared , however , that when " starch " leaves were used a retardation under the influence of C02 occurred for a short period , but passed away as time went on .
The leaves were , of course , kept in the dark during these , experiments .
The passing of the C02 retardation would correspond with the onset of starvation .
When starved leaves were used , on the other hand , the same retardation was not observed .
Both anaerobic and normal respiration were tested .
In order to obtain the effect of C02 concentrations upon floating respiration alone equal lots of starved and starch leaves were set up under equal conditions for the desired concentration of C02 .
The difference between the respiration of the " starch " leaves and the starved leaves was taken as the value of the " floating " respiration .
This subtraction method of determining the floating respiration is used tentatively .
It gives , however , a definite result with regard to the effect of C02 upon floating respiration in agreement with our hypothesis .
The fact must be borne in mind that this subtraction method depends on the assumption that the nature and amount of the protoplasmic respiration are the same in conditions of starvation and in conditions of full supply .
Further results are awaited here .
Table IX.\#151 ; Showing the Retarding Effect of Carbon Dioxide upon the Anaerobic C02 Production of " Starch " Leaves ( Cherry Laurel ) , disappearing as starvation sets in and completely absent on the fifth day .
Initial C02 in N.2 .
Anaerobic C02 production in successive periods .
1st day ( 18 hours ) .
2nd-4th day ( 18th-86th hour ) .
5th day ( 86th-108th hour ) .
per cent. c.c. c.c. c.c. 0 25 98 12 10 17 85 11 20 12 85 15 50 14 79 \#151 ; Conducted in dark room .
Whole leaves , 17 grm. , 4 hours after cutting in each experiment* Cut at 3 pan .
Temperature of dark room 16 *5-12 *5 ' C. C02 production estimated from increased pressures .
The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
Table X.\#151 ; Effect of Carbon Dioxide upon Floating Kespiration ( Anaerobic ) obtained by Subtraction Method .
Concentrations of C02 in N2 .
Anaerobic C02 produced ( c.c. per 10 grm. per 10 hours ) .
By starch leaves . .
By starved leaves .
By floating respiration ( by subtraction ) .
per cent. 0 20 7*8 12*2 35 8-8 8 *4 0-4 85 7-1 5*9 1 *2 Conducted in dark .
15 grin , of whole Cherry Laurel leaves in each experiment .
Starch leaves kept after cutting five days under artificial illumination , petioles in HoO .
Starved leaves kept after cutting five days in dark , petioles in HoO .
Temperature 25 ' C. Time 46 hours ( second and third day after setting ) .
Table XI.\#151 ; Effect of Carbon Dioxide upon Floating Respiration ( Aerobic ) obtained by Subtraction Method .
Concentration of C02 C02 produced in normal respiration ( c.c. CCh per 10 grm. per 10 hours ) .
present .
By starch leaves .
By starved leaves .
By floating respiration ( by subtraction ) .
per cent. 10 18 *5 6*7 11 *8 25 15 *7 7*9 7*8 40 16 *4 10 *4 6 *0 60 15 *8 12 *4 3*4 Conducted in the dark .
Ten whole Lilac leaves , 8 grm. , in each experiment .
Starch leaves , newly cut after 12 hours ' sunshine , showed abundant starch .
Starved leaves , newly cut from shoots kept previously six days in dark , showed complete absence of starch .
Temperature of experiments 20 ' C. Time 75 hours .
Estimation by analysis .
These results indicate that floating respiration may be retarded to practical inhibition under the action of carbon dioxide .
This is the case , moreover , both in the presence and in the absence of oxygen .
Upon protoplasmic respiration , on the other hand , the action of carbon dioxide is shown to be of a different nature .
The tentative conclusions reached can , therefore , be stated as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) That the distinction drawn by Blackman between floating respiration and protoplasmic respiration is confirmed .
( 2 ) That the retarding and inhibiting action of carbon dioxide upon the general respiration of plant tissues ( most marked in the case of seeds and seedlings so far as these experiments have as yet gone ) is an effect , in the main , only upon the floating respiration and is in the nature of a direct action inhibiting it .
VOL. lxxxix.\#151 ; b. 0 Mr. F. Kidd .
Section YI.\#151 ; Further Light upon the Chemical Mechanism of Respiration Plants .
The results of these researches bear directly upon the problem of the nature of the respiratory processes in plants ; and especially upon the question as to whether the processes involved in the anaerobic C02 production which is induced in plants in the absence of oxygen , are not also normally the first processes in ordinary aerobic respiration .
Two very definite effects of carbon dioxide have been demonstrated:\#151 ; ( 1 ) An effect of increased concentrations of C02 in tissues upon anaerobic respiration , decreasing the rate of C02 production in direct relation to the amount of C02 in the tissues .
( 2 ) An effect of increased concentrations of C02 in tissues upon normal respiration , decreasing the rate of this process also in direct relation to the amount of C02 in the tissues .
The similarity of these effects of carbon dioxide upon two processes which are different in their nature , the one producing C02 by molecular splitting , the other by direct oxidation , naturally suggests at once two possibilities .
Either ( 1 ) the two processes are genetically connected , so that by limiting the precursor the second process is naturally and automatically limited also ; or ( 2 ) while the two processes are not genetically connected , the similar effect produced on both under the influence of carbon dioxide is to be explained by an action of carbon dioxide upon the medium in which they both occur .
Thus it is possible that a change in the permeability of protoplasm under the influence of carbon dioxide might decrease equally the rate of two reactions occurring in the cell but otherwise in no way connected with each other .
The fact that carbon dioxide appears to act in its retarding effect mainly upon the processes of floating respiration and not upon those of protoplasmic or starvation respiration inclines us to the first of these possibilities .
Experiments were devised to test this question .
It is necessary , however , clearly to set out in the first place the hypothesis which we desire to test .
It may be stated in sequence as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 ) An anaerobic splitting of carbohydrate into some easily oxidisable substance and carbon dioxide , occurring in the initial stages of anaerobic respiration , is always the first process in normal respiration .
( 2 ) The rate of this first process producing easily oxidisable substances acts as a limiting factor upon the amount of the succeeding process , in which these substances are oxidised somehow by the oxygen of the atmosphere , oxygen being always in excess in normal respiration and the oxidisable substances being thus always completely removed .
( 3 ) Carbon dioxide retards the rate of the first process , that is the The Controlling Influence Carbon Dioxide .
anaerobic splitting process , only , but in so doing automatically retards also the amount of the following oxidations even in the presence of excess of oxygen .
On this hypothesis , if the amount of available oxygen be decreased till it is no longer present in excess , but in deficiency , so that the oxidisable substances produced in the first process accumulate faster than they are removed by oxidation , then the rate of the first splitting process will no longer be the limiting factor upon oxidation .
In such conditions , if carbon dioxide has no effect upon the oxidation process , as we suppose , the amount of carbon dioxide present , while still retarding the first process , should now have no effect upon the amount of oxygen consumed .
In the following experiments peas covered with thick water films in order to reduce gaseous exchange were allowed to respire in the presence of 20 per cent , of oxygen .
In this condition a large amount of C02 was produced anaerobically in addition to that accounted for by the loss of oxygen , showing clearly on our assumption that the available oxygen was present in an amount quite insufficient to remove the oxidisable substances as fast as they were produced in the first anaerobic splitting process .
As the following Table of results shows , carbon dioxide had not , under these conditions , any definite influence upon the amount of oxygen consumed .
Table XII.\#151 ; Showing that if Oxygen is present in deficiency , increased concentrations of Carbon Dioxide , while still retarding the rate of Anaerobic C02 production , have nowr no effect in reducing the amount of Oxygen taken in .
Initial C02 in atmospheres N2 .
Oxygen consumed .
Anaerobic C02 production .
per cent. 0 26 104 10 27 87 20 23 80 40 28 44 In each experiment 25 peas , dry weight 8 grm. , with sufficient w^ater to form adequate films over them when fully swelled .
The flasks were shaken at intervals during the experiments .
The results shown in the Table were obtained after the experiments had been running 90 hours .
The percentage of oxygen , initially 20 per cent. , had fallen only to about 17 per cent , in each experiment .
The peas used were sterilised with 1/ 500 bromine for 30 minutes , and the flasks with weaker bromine for a longer period .
Temperature of the experiments was that of laboratory , 16 ' C. ( average ) .
The increase in volume of the gases in the flasks during the experiments , as calculated from manometer readings , was taken as a measure of anaerobic respiration sufficient to demonstrate clearly the point that carbon dioxide retards anaerobic C02 production in these experiments .
o 2 Mr. F. Kidd .
From the foregoing Table , then , it appears that , when oxygen is not present in excess but in deficiency , a rise in the percentage of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere produces no corresponding fall in the oxygen consumption .
This is in direct contrast to the descending series of figures representing the oxygen consumption when oxygen was present in excess .
This result strongly supports the first of the two hypotheses which have been put forward above .
For , as the above results show , we can reduce the amount of available oxygen normally present in excess till a point is reached beyond which the rate of the first or splitting process producing oxidisable substances is no longer the factor limiting oxidation , but oxygen itself becomes instead the limiting factor ; and in this case carbon dioxide has no longer any effect in reducing the amount of oxidation .
In short , the results thus obtained appear to offer considerable support to the general theory as to the genetic relation between anaerobic and aerobic respiration set out in full above .
Section VII.\#151 ; Carbon Dioxide .
In these researches , we have been concerned with the narcosis due to carbon dioxide which becomes apparent by retardation and inhibition of growth .
The universal presence of C02 in living tissues makes it important to know the details of its action .
At present it is , perhaps , best to consider the effects of C02 apart and not as the basis for generalisations as to the nature of narcosis .
We have obtained , so far , the definite result that carbon dioxide reduces both the amount of anaerobic respiration and the amount of aerobic or normal respiration to a marked degree in plant tissues .
Further , that of the two types of respiration included under these heads , demonstrated by Blackman and others , namely , floating respiration and protoplasmic respiration , it is the former only which is depressed , and that this may be retarded to practical inhibition under the action of C02 .
It seems of importance to determine in the sequel what effect the membranes of cells of various types and various tissues may have upon the tensions of oxygen and carbon dioxide actually within the cytoplasm , effects for instance , such as are indicated in Loeb 's experiments upon artificial fertilisation in which the destruction of a cortical layer in the cell was found to increase largely the rate of oxidation .
R. Lillie has put forward the hypothesis that the cortical layer of the unfertilised egg prevents the diffusion of C02 from the egg and that this C02 inhibits oxidation .
Further , it must be determined what effects oxygen and carbon dioxide themselves may have in changing the general permeability of cell membranes , such as , for instance , are indicated in researches like those of Osterhout and Lepeschkin in plant tissues , and those The Controlling Influence Carbon Dioxide .
of Ohrwall , Benedicenti and Treves , Straub , Lovatt Evans , Starling and Jerusalem , and Starling and Kaya in muscular tissue .
Section YIII.\#151 ; Conclusions .
The results obtained may now be summarised .
That this may be done more effectively it will be well to recall briefly the main results obtained in Parts I and II of these researches , which were as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
The resting stage of the moist seed is primarily a phase of narcosis induced by the action of carbon dioxide .
2 .
Both the arrested development in the case of the moist maturing seed and the widely occurring phenomenon of delayed germination in the case of the moist resting seed , are related to an inhibitory partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the tissues of the embryo .
3 .
Germination is related to a lowering of this inhibitory partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the tissues .
4 .
The inhibitory value of a given carbon dioxide pressure diminishes with a rise of temperature .
5 .
The inhibitory value of a given carbon dioxide pressure diminishes with a rise of oxygen pressure .
In Part III the investigation has been extended to plant tissues in general , in order to determine the mechanism of this narcosis .
The influence of carbon dioxide upon respiration has been first studied , in view of the fact that respiration appears closely connected with growth by cell division .
The conclusions reached may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
The rate of anaerobic CO2 production in plant tissues is depressed by carbon dioxide .
2 .
This depression of CO2 production is not due to permanent disorganisation .
It passes away as soon as the depressant concentration of CO2 is removed .
3 .
Quantitatively the degree of depression at the temperatures used appears to be proportional to the square root of the concentration of C02 , over a range from 0 to 50 per cent. CO2 at one atmosphere pressure .
Above 50 per cent , the effect of increasing the concentrations becomes gradually less marked .
4 .
This depressant action of carbon dioxide is not limited to anaerobic CO2 production , but occurs also in aerobic respiration in the presence of oxygen .
5 .
The depression of aerobic respiration under carbon dioxide is shown when measured either by O2 consumption or CO2 production .
156 The Controlling Influence of Carbon Dioxide .
6 .
Where oxygen is in deficiency so that some degree of anaerobic C02 production occurs , it is then found that carbon dioxide has no retarding effect on oxidation .
7 .
A quantitative relation exists between the concentration of carbon dioxide and the depression of aerobic respiration of the same order as in the case of anaerobic CO2 production .
8 .
These results are taken as evidence that anaerobic and aerobic C02 production are processes genetically connected in normal respiration , and that the rate of the anaerobic process acts as the limiting factor in normal respiration .
9 .
Of the two types of respiration demonstrated by Blackman and others , namely , floating respiration and protoplasmic respiration , it is the former only which is depressed by the retarding action of carbon dioxide .
10 .
The main conclusion to be drawn from these results with regard to the inhibitory action of CO2 upon growth is that a marked reduction of respiration is involved in the mechanism of C02 narcosis .
In conclusion I wish to thank Dr. F. F. Blackman , who has continually given me most valuable help in consultation during these researches , and also Prof. V. H. Blackman , for whose criticism and advice I am much indebted .

