I. " ; Second Note on Ozone .
" By THOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. , F.R.S. , and P. G. TAIT , M.A. , F.C.P.S. Communicated by Dr. ANDREWS .
Received December 16 , 1858 .
Since the publication of their " Note on the Density of Ozone " ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , June 1857 ) , the authors have been occupied with an extended investigation into the nature and properties of that body .
The inquiry having proved more protracted than they anticipated , they have thought it proper to send to the Royal Society a brief notice of some of the more important facts which they have already observed , reserving a description of the methods employed , and of the details of the experiments , for a future communication .
The commonly received statement , that the whole of a given volume of dry oxygen gas contained alonie in an hermetically sealed tube can be converted into ozone by the passage of electrical sparks , is erroneous .
In repeated trials , with tubes of every form and size , the authors found that not more than T part of the oxygen could thus be changed into ozone .
A greater effect was , it is true , produced by the silent discharge between fine platiua points ; but this also had its limit .
In order to carry on the process , it is necessary to introduce into the apparatus some substance , such as a solution of iodide of potassium , which has the property of taking up , in the form of oxygen , the ozone as it is produced .
After many trials , an apparatus was contrived in the form of a double U , having a solution of iodide of potassium in one end , and a column of fragments of fused chloride of calcium interposed between this solution and the part of the tube where the electrical discharge was passed .
The chloride of calcium allowed the ozone to pass , but arrested the vapour of water ; so that , while the discharge always took place in dry oxygen , the ozonie was gradually absorbed .
The experiment is not yet finiished , but already onefourth of the gas in a tuibe of the capacity of 10 cubic cenitimetres has disappeared .
To produce this effect , the discharge from a machine in excellent order has been passed through the tube for twenty-four hours .
When oxygen is thus converted inlto ozone , a diminution of volume takes place .
The greatest contraction occurs with the silent discharge , and amounts to about 3of the volume of the gas .
The passage of sparks has less effect than the silent discharge , and will even destroy a part of the contraction obtained by means of the latter .
If the apparatus be exposed for a short time to the temperature of 250 ?
C. , so .
as to destroy the ozone , it will be found that the gas on cooling has recovered exactly its original volume .
This observation proves , unequivocally , that if ozone be oxygen in an allotropic condition , its density is greater than that of oxygen .
Experiments still in progress indicate that the density of ozone obtained by the electrical discharge must , on the above assumptioni , be represented by even a higher number than that deduced by the authors from their experiments on ozone prepared by electrolysis .
When mercury is brought into contact with dry oxygen , in which ozone has been formed by the electrical discharge , it loses to a great extent its mobility , and may be made to cover the interior of the tube with a fine reflecting surface resembling that of an ordinary mirror .
It is remarkable that this great change in the state of the mercury is not accompanied by any further diminution of the volume of the gas .
The apparatus employed by the authors would have enabled them to estimate with certainty a change of volume amounting to 2 part of the whole .
On the contrary , on allowing the apparatus to stand , the gas begins slowly to expand ; and in thirty hours , when the ozone reactions have disappeared , the expansion amounts to a little more than one half of the contraction which had previously taken place .
Dry silver , in the state both of leaf and of filings , has the property of entirely destroying ozone , whether prepared by electrolysis or by the electrical machine .
If a stream of electrolytic ozone be passed over silver leaf or filings contained in a tube , the metal becomes altered in appearance where the gas comes first into contact with it ; but no appreciable increase of weight takes place , however lorng the experiment may be continued .
The volumetric results are similar to those already described in the case of mercury .
Arsenic also destroys dry ozone , but , as it likewise combines with dry oxygen , its separate action on ozone cannot be observed with precision .
Most of the other metals examined , such as gold , platina , iron , zinc , tin , &amp;c. , are without action on dry ozone .
Iodinie , brought into contact with oxygen contracted by the electric discharge , instantly destroys the ozone reactions , and a yellowish solid is formed : no change of volume accompanies this action .
Peroxide of manganese and oxide of copper have , it is well known , the property of destroying ozone , apparently without limit .
The authors have found that these oxides unidergo no sensible increase of weight , even after the destruction of 50 or 60 milligrammes of ozone .
The same oxides , when brought inito contact with oxygen contracted by the spark , restore it to niearly its original volume .
Hydrogen gas , purified with care , and perfectly dry , was not changed in volume by the action either of the electrical spark , or of the silent discharge .
A similar niegative result was obtained with nitrogen and the silent discharge ; but with the spark a very slight alteration of volume appeared to occur , the cause of which is still tinder investigation .
In the experimenits now described , the electrical sparks and discharge were always obtained from the commoni friction-machine .
The discharge from the induction coil , even when passed through two Leyden jars , produces very insignificant ozone effects .
The heat which always accompanies this discharge , and its comparatively feeble tension , sufficiently explain its want of energy .
All the results recently obtained by the authors fully confirm the former experiments of one of them , * that in no case is water produced by the destruction of ozone , whether prepared by electrolysis or by the electrical discharge .
They reserve any further expression of their views as to the true relations which exist between ozone and oxygen , till they shall have an opportunity of laying the results of this inquiry in a more complete form before the Society .

