" On the Safety-valve of the right Ventricle of the Heart in Man ?
7 and on the gradations of the same apparatus in Mammalia and Birds .
" By J. W. King , Esq. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , F.R.S. In this paper additional evidence is given by the author in corroboration of the principles which he had announced in a former commu ?
nication , which was read to the Royal Society in May 1835 , on the influence of the tricuspid valve of the heart on the circulation of the blood .
His object is to demonstrate that the tricuspid valve in man occasionally serves the purpose of a safety-valve , being constructed so as to allow of the reflux of the blood from the ventricle into the auricle , during the varying states of distension to which the right cavities of the heart are at times subjected ; that a similar function is maintained in the greater number of animals possessing a double circulation , and also that in the different orders of these animals the structure of this valve is expressly adapted to the production of an effect of this kind , in various degrees , corresponding with the respective characters and habits of each tribe .
He is thus led to conclude that the function which the tricuspid valve exercises exhibits , in the extent of its developement , a regular gradation , when followed throughout the different orders of Mammalia and Birds ; and that it extends even to some Reptiles .
The force with which the circulating blood is impelled by the general venous trunks into the heart , and which is dependent on the action of the arterial system , the degree of compression arising from muscular action , combined with the resistance of the valves of the veins , and is also influenced by occasional accumulations of blood from rapid absorption , from impeded respiration , and from cold applied to the surface of the body , is shown to be subject to great and sud ?
den variations .
Any increase taking place in this force tends to produce distension of the right ventricle of the heart , followed by disturbance in the valvular action of the tricuspid membrane , owing to the displacement of its parts , which thus allows of a considerable reflux of blood into the auricle .
Among the Mammalia , the lowest degree of this action , corresponding to that of a safety-valve , is found in the rodent , the marsupial , and the canine tribes .
The next in degree is that which occurs in the order of Edentata and the feline genus .
The Quadrumana occupy the next place in the scale of gradation .
The human conformation exhibits this function in a very conspicuous manner , especially in the adult period ; for at birth , when the right ventricle is unyielding , it scarcely exists j and in various states of disease the tri ?
cuspid valve acts with too much or with too little efficacy .
The Pachydermata and Ruminantia come next in succession .
The Seal exhibits this peculiarity in a still higher degree j but in no order of Mammalia does it exist to so great an extent as in the Cetacea , which appear , indeed , to possess a peculiar additional provision for effectually securing the permanent performance of this office , which the author compares to that of a safety-valve .
A similar function , subject to si ?
milar gradations , is likewise traced in different orders of Birds .
It is but slight in the Gallinaceae ; and rather greater in the predaceous tribes .
In some of the Waders it exists to a considerable extent ?
but is greatest of all in the orders of Passerinae and Scansores .
Crocodiles and the Ornithorhynchus present some traces of this peculiar provi ?
sion relatively to the circulation .

