1871.1 On a new Atmospheric-Pressure Instrument .
491 A fair measure was obtained of the centre of the middle band , which was the brightest ; it gives for this band a wave-length of about 510 millionths of a millimetre .
I was not able to do more than estimate roughly the position of the less refrangible band .
The result gives 545 millionths .
The third band was situated at about the same distance from the middle band on the more refrangible side .
It would appear that this comet is similar in constitution to the comets which I examined in 1868* .
V. " On a New Instrument for recording Minute Variations of Atmospheric Pressure .
" ByWiLDMAN Whitehouse , F.M.S. \amp ; c. \amp ; c. Communicated by R. H. Scott , F.R.S. , Director of the Meteorological Office .
Received May 8 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The occurrence of a heavy U ground-swell " on the sea-coast in perfectly calm weather suggested to the writer some years ago the possibility of atmospheric waves or pulsations accompanying a gale being propagated to a considerable distance ( irrespective of any horizontal movement of air ) , and giving evidence of the disturbance existing elsewhere .
It was seen that , even if such were the case , it would be difficult to obtain proof of it , as any ordinary observations would fail to detect it , and that it could only be attained by the adoption of a system of continuous record specially adapted to the purpose .
The writer therefore determined to design and construct an instrument with this object ; and after many trials with varied apparatus , it was decided to adopt the hydraulic principle , as affording at once the means of accumulating force sufficient to actuate the instrument , and of measuring the force itself by the alteration produced in the height of the column of water .
The use of an air-chamber was suggested by the sympiesometer ; it has , however , been enlarged to meet the altered conditions of this instrument , and is buried underground to secure freedom from all diurnal changes of temperature .
The action of the instrument essentially depends upon the flow and reflow of water between two hydraulic chambers ( connected by a tube or siphon ) , one of which is open and exposed to atmospheric pressure , the other closed at top , and removed from such pressure , being in pneumatic connexion with the buried air-chamber .
Any difference in the levels of the water in these two chambers is a measure of the variation of pressure producing it , and the water in its flow is made to move the tracing-point or pen across the paper .
In order that the objects of the research should be attained , the action must be continuous , unfailing , of great delicacy\#151 ; able to show changes of * Phil. Trans , 1868 , p. 555 ; and Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 386 .
Mr. W. Whitehouse on a New Instrument for [ May 25 , i " of an inch of mercury and of brief duration , and yet moving with sufficient force to reduce to insignificance the inevitable friction of the pen and working parts .
The chief difficulties met were :\#151 ; 1st .
To retain perfect sensibility to minute variations of pressure without being constantly thrown out of range by the greater changes .
2nd .
To record on a very open scale , and yet not to exceed the usual convenient limits of paper and space .
It was found necessary to abandon the idea of recording absolute barometric measurements on such a scale , and to deal with minute differences only ( hence the name " Differential microbarograph " ) , making the instrument self-adjusting , so as to act differentially only , allowing brief wave-like motions or pulsations of pressure to record themselves as such , while a steady rise or fall of pressure should record itself by a line or trace , whose mean distance above or below the base-line will indicate pretty accurately the rate per hour of such rise or fall .
This power of self-adjustment has been obtained by use of a capillary tube communicating with the air-chamber and with the atmosphere , whereby the equilibrium disturbed by changes of pressure is being constantly restored , and the pen brought back to the zero .
It is as if the ordinary barographic curve of pressure were made to serve as the base-line , and these minute variations were made to record themselves above or below it , as though they were ripples or waves upon its surface .
The two hydraulic chambers connected by a siphon being in a state of equilibrium , and the closed one being in pneumatic connexion with the buried air-chamber , it is obvious that any change in the atmospheric pressure exerted upon the water in the open one would disturb the equilibrium and alter the levels , by causing water to pass from one to the other .
The end of the siphon , however , opens into a small cylinder closed at the bottom , and suspended in the water in the open chamber ; this responds to the movement , and measures the flow of the water taking place between the chambers , the degree of its immersion depending upon the quantity of water it contains , and altering by its displacement the level of the water in which it floats .
Inverted in the water , and attached by a couple of silk lines passing over pulleys to this cylinder , partly as a counterpoise , but also to cooperate with it in producing the movements of the instrument , is another cylinder of equal area , capacity , and weight , closed at top , where it is subjected to the pressure of the atmosphere , open at bottom , where its interior is removed from such pressure by being suspended over the mouth of a tube in pneumatic connexion with the buried air-chamber .
These two cylinders , carefully balanced and suspended half immersed in the water in the open vessel , are equally but oppositely acted upon by any WkUeho^ Proc Roy .
Soc. Vol. Ul PI a. 1871 .
] recording Minute Variations of Atmospheric .
493 change of pressure , the one rising while the other descends , and so combining to produce the desired movement .
A light but rigid Y-shaped bar is laid inverted on the sharp edge of a disk placed on the axis of the pulleys supporting the cylinders , the other end of the bar running upon a light disk as a friction-roller .
This bar carries a glass capillary siphon pen of very simple form lightly poised , and having a reservoir of fluid ink sufficient for a month 's use ; this traverses the paper on the drum in the usual manner .
The relative areas of the cylinders and the hydraulic chambers respectively determine the scale upon which the curves shall be projected ; the ratio* of 10 to 1 which has been adopted giving half an inch rise or fall for one-tenth of an inch difference in the water-level in the two chambers .
The instrument therefore multiplies by 5 , and the difference in the specific gravity of mercury and water again multiplies by 13 59 , say 13*6 x 5 = 68 ; this is the scale upon which the curves would be projected were it not for the power of self-adjustment given to the instrument , in order to keep it within range .
By use of an instrument such as described , the writer has at intervals during the last four years accumulated barograms for subsequent examination and discussion , amounting to over 450 days .
The autographs of different days are as diverse as possible , and sometimes most characteristic ; tracings of a few types are appended .
It is only within the last few weeks that the writer has been able to commence the comparison of his barograms with independent data gathered from a wide area of official observations .
By the courtesy of the Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society , and the kindness of Mr. Scott , the Director of the Meteorological Office , he has been furnished with all the reports and data at their disposal , which he trusts will enable him thoroughly to discuss the matter .
Meantime the interesting nature of some of the results , the coincidence in point of date between some of the most striking of the micro-barograms , and the existence of storm and gale within a certain radius are not a little remarkable , and are indeed sufficient to induce the writer to lay the matter before the Royal Society in its early stage , rather than await a fuller development under his own hands , in order to insure for it a wider basis than his own individual observations alone could command .
Personally the writer entertains little doubt that these barograms show the existence , under some circumstances , of the atmospheric storm-waves of which he has been in search , the most marked feature in such case being the rhythmical character and strikingly wave-like form which the minute movements assume .
It is believed that much information may result from such additional means of research , and the writer offers the instrument in aid of meteorological science .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 15 .

