451 1875 .
] On the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
lour distribution-theorems is the principal object of the present memoir ; jut the memoir contains other investigations which have presented themselves to me in treating the question .
It is to be noticed that the theorem A. belongs to G-reen , being in fact the fundamental theorem of his memoir }f 1835 , already referred to .
Theorem C , in the particular case of tridimensional space , belongs also to him , being given in his ' Essay on the Application of Mathematical Analysis to the theories of Electricity and Magnetism * ( Nottingham , 1828 ) , being partially rediscovered by Gauss in the year 1840 ; and theorem D , in the same case of tridimensional space , to Lejeune-Dirichlet : see his memoir " Sir un moyen general de verifier l'expression du potential relatif A , un mass quelconque homogene 3u heterogene , " Crelle , t. xxxii .
pp. 80-84(1846 ) .
I refer more particularly :o these and other researches by Gauss , Jacobi , and others in the course of the present memoir .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part X. Family MacropodidjE ; Mandibular Dentition and Parts of the Skeleton of Palorchestes , with additional evidences of Macropus Titan , and Procoptodon .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) In this " Part " the author gives additional evidences of extinct genera ind species of Kangaroos defined in the two preceding Parts ( VIII .
and [ X. ) .
To the Palorchestes Azael he adds characters of the mandible and nandibular teeth , and gives a restoration of the entire skull ; the pelvis , emur , tibia , calcaneum , and principal bones of the hind foot of this gigantic species are described and figured .
Of Macropus Titan the author restores the entire skull and femur , ^f Sthenurus Atlas he describes and figures the incisor teeth , the deci-luous dentition , and the fore part of the skull of a young individual : of he larger species of this genus , Sthenurus the entire skull and lentition are restored .
The " Part " concludes with the restoration of cer-ain bones of the hind foot in a Kangaroo slightly exceeding the largest Macropus major in size ( indicated as a Macropus ) , in the Htus , in .
Palorchestes Azael , and in the three species of Procoptodon [ Pusio , Rapha , and Goliah ) .
The paper concludes with remarks on the ran , sitionary character of the latter forms , as bridging the gap between he saltigrade and gravigrade groups of phytiphagous Marsupialia .
The paper is illustrated by subjects for thirteen plates .

