Tab=2 Philos=Transact=no=304 : Fig.1 .
n A c m D5 iC k B k B fh f~ h e g ~ A 3 4o 2 A III .
Several Experiments on the Attrition of Bodies in Vacuo .
Made before the Royal Society at Gresham College , by Mr Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. A Description of the Machine for Giving a Swift Motion to Bodies in Vacuo , without Admitting the External Air~ represented in Tab. II .
Fig. 1 .
A. A. Is a Ladder , such as is generally used in Houses .
B. B. Is a Bar of Iron which passes through the Middle of the upper Step , and is fastened to the Back-board of the Ladder by 2 Nuts and Screws thro both the Board and Iron .
C. C. The Jaws of the Iron Frame which holds the great Wheel .
D. D. 23 inches Diameter within its Groove .
E. E. The Brass Plate of the Air Pump on which the Recipient f. f. is placed .
g. g. The Spindle to which Bodies of different Magnitudes may be fastened , by a hole passing thro the Middle of them , sufficient to receive the Spindle ; and by means of the 2 Nuts h. h. a larger or a smaller Body may be screwed fast between 'em .
i. i. Is a Brass Plate turned true to the Ground Edge of the Recipient on which it is placed , having a Brass Box in the middle of it , which is full of Collars of Leather well oiled , thro which the Spindle passes : The hole of the Brass being likewise just fit to receive it .
Hhhhhhhhhhhhh k. k. k. k. Two Pillars with Nuts to serew down a piece of Board , which has an Iron fastened to it to receive the upper point of the Spindle , the lower one falling into a Brass Socker , screwed to the middle of the Plate of the Air Pump .
l. l. The Supporters reaching from the upper Board of the Ladder to the Pillars , to prevent the Recipients being drawn from its place by the motion and tug of the Wheelband .
m. m. The small Wheel which the Band surrounds from the great one , and is 1 Inch and a half diameter .
n. n. The Winch which gives motion to the whole .
The small Wheel m. m. making about 15 Revolutions to one of the large Whell D.D. so that a Body fastned to the Spindle g. g. of the small Wheel m. m. must be turned 15 times round to once of the great Wheel ; and according as it shall exceed in Diameter the small Wheel , so will the Velocity of the Motion of the Extreme parts be proportionably increased .
o. o. Are two Screws which fasten the Ladder to the Floor .
Experiment I. An Account of an Experiment made November .
21 .
1705 .
at a Meeting of the Royal Society at Gresham College , showing that Light is Producibile upon a swift Attrition of Amber on Woolen in Vacuo .
Being prepared with the Machine before described , for giving a swift motion to Bodies in Vacuo , the Amber made use of in this Experiment was Beads , about the bigness of small Nutmegs , and Threaded ; by which means a piece of Wood was surrounded with them , which I had purposely caus 'd to be ~ , with a Groove on the edge of it , to keep the Beads from being displaced upon a smart Attrition .
Likewise between every Bead was tied over a String from Pin to Pin , which were so many pieces of small Wire , drove thro the Wood for their better security and fastness , the Beads appearing about half their Diameter beyond the Wood to which they were fixed .
( as in Fig. 2 .
) In this manner it was put on the Spindle , and fastened there by the two Nuts , as before described .
( See Fig. 3 .
) Then the Brass Plate on which the Woollen was wrapped , being screwed to its place , ( by means of the Socket , which receives the lower point of the Spindle ) would then spring back , and embrace the Amber with a moderate force .
( as in Fig.3 .
) Thus prepared , and the Receiver placed over , with its upper Plate and Box for the Spindle to pass through , the Pump was set on work , and in a very little time the Mercury in the Gage was elevated to about 29 inches and a half , which showed the Recipient to be well exhausted of its Air .
The Great Wheel being then turned , gave a very swift Attrition of the Amber on the Woolen , but no Light at first appeared : Yet in a second or two of time it became visible enough ; which shows it requires some degrees of Heat~to produce the Phenomenon .
I could not observe that the Continuance or Increase of the Motion , did contribute any thing to the Enhancement of the Light , after the first production of it : Nor would the Light thus produced , live on the Amber to continue a Circle , notwithstanding the velocity of the Motion given ; but died so soon as it had deserted the Affricated Woolen .
However , on the Woollen , ( during the Motion , ) where the Attrition of the Amber was made , the Light continued without Intermission , and was discernible at three or four foot distance .
What farther to be taken notice of in this Experiment was , That it highly Corroborates and Confirms those made on the Production of Heat in Vacuo by Attrition : For the Amber was not only moderately heated , but appeared to be burnt and cracked by the Intenseness of it .
And the Woollen Hhhhhhhhhhhhh2 against against which it rubbed , appeared likewise not only discoloured , but perfectly scorched and burnt through : That altho the same Motion and the same ~ was given the Amber in the Open Air , yet very little Light did ensue , in Comparison to the Appearance of it in Vacuo : That the Travel or Velocity of the extreme parts of the Amber , was equal to something more than one third of a mile in a minute : Supposing the large Wheel to make two Revolutions in a second of time~ whose Diameter is 23 Inches ; the Diameter of the small one moved by it , one Inch and a half ; and the Diameter of the Wood and Amber on the same Spindle with the small Wheel , four Inches and a half .
Experiment II .
Showing the Necessity of the Air 's Presence ( at least some degree of it ) in the Production of Fire , upon the Attrition of Flint and Steel .
HAving provided a Steel Ring about 4 Inches Diameter , its Thickness about one eighth of an Inch , which between two pieces of Wood of a less Diameter , I fixed on the Spindle with the Nuts , as mentioned in the foregoing~ Experiment ; its edge verging beyond the extreme of the Wood that held it about half an Inch .
The Brass Plate , which I made use of for fastning the Woollen for the Attrition of Amber , served likewise to fix a piece of ~ : An edge or corner of which stood exposed to the Steel , which Brass Plate by its Spring would hold the Flint pretty strongly to it , notwithstanding some might be worn or chipt off by the Rapidity of the Motion given .
In this manner it was Covered with a Receiver , and Brass Plate and Box , as the former .
But before any Air was exhausted , the Great Wheel was moved , which gave motion to the small one , and consequently to the Included Steel ; which exhibited spark of Fire in a very plentiful manner After some Air had been withdrawn , the Great wheel was turned , as before , but the number of Sparks then produce 'd did not only seem to be lessened , but a sen~ ~ of their ~ and Vigour was manifest .
And so at every stop that was made , to repeat the Experiment at greater Refractions , did the Sparks produced still demioish in their Quantity and Light ; till at last , when the Receiver was well exhausted of Air , then altho a more violent Motion was given the Steel than before , yet not the least Spark appeared to be struck from it : But a small Continued Light was visible on the edge of the Flint , that was rubbed by the Steel .
Upon the letting in a little Air , some Sparks upon the motion given , were discovered of a dull gloomy hue ; but upon letting in a little more Air , I know not by what Accident , the whole quantity Insinuated , and then upon the repetition of the Wheels motion , the Sparks appeared as numerous and as vivid as at first .
Experiment III .
Touching the Production of a Purple Light , upon the Attrition of Glass on Woollen in Vacuo .
Together with the Various Phenomenon of the same Experiment at several Trials .
As likewise some other Experiments on the same subject .
The manner of making the Attrition , and the uses of the several Apparatus , being already at large described , I shall not need now to take farther notice of them .
The Glass used in this Experiment was Globular , about 4 Inches Diameter , having a Passage thro the Middle of it to receive the Spindle , to which it was fastened with Corks and Screw .
The Woollen against which it was to rub , was such as is now commonly sold for Gartering , the ~ sort of which I purposely chose for its harshness , thinking it likely to improve the phenomenon , beyond the List of Cloath formerly used for the same purpose .
This Woollen was wrapped about the Arms of the Brass Spring , ( described in former Experiments , ) and being forew 'd down-to its place , gently embraced the Glass Globe .
Thus prepared , and the large Receiver put over all , the Pump was wrought , and in a little time had exhausted the Air from the Receiver : Then the large Wheel being turned , gave 15 Revolutions to the Included Globe , to one of its own ; in which swift motion , rubbing on the premention 'd Woollen , a fine Purple Light ~ , the included Apparatus being distinguishable by it , and continued so during the Attrition .
Upon letting in a little Air , both the Light and its Colour did diminish : And as the Air at several times was suffered to re-enter the Receiver , so the Light became manifestly more Pale , and less Vivid .
And even when the Receiver was replete with Air , a small faint Light did discover itself upon the same Attrition given , as at first .
What is farther observable in this Experiment was , That the Purple Light which appeared , seemed to be about the breadth of half an Inch , and about one in height , being visible no where but on each Arm os the Brass Spring , where the Glass in its motion rubbed on the Woollen .
That the Light remained steady without the least Undulation , notwithstanding the Motion of the Glass was considerably swift .
This being all that occurred at that time , I now beg leave to give some Account of the Various Phenomenon that has happened at divers Repetitions of the same Experiment .
The first time I made it , its success was much the same as I have just now related : But when I came to repeat it twice or thrice , with the same Glass , no Purple Light appeared , a pale one then succeeded in its room , nor all the means I used could recover it , till I took a new Glass , which after I had used for the same purpose two or three times , served me as the former ; nor~could it be Revived again without a new one .
In this Experiment it was sometimes observable , that the Glass , when taken out after a violent Attrition , would be so hot as not to be held in the naked hand without a sensible Offence .
That the Woollen on which it rubbed would not only appear discoloured , but sometimes perfectly burnt through .
Sometimes upon making this Experiment , it has happened that a Light would be carried quite round the Glass Globe , thereby making a continued Circle of it , during its Motion , notwithstanding it touched the Woollen in no more parts than in the former Experiments .
At other times , a perfect Halo would discover itself around the Stagnant Light ; which seems to me to proceed from some few drops of Water , that will sometimes insiniate by the Spindle through the Box on the upper Brass Plate , where is always kept Water , to prevent the entrance of Air there .
This Water descending the Spindle till it reached some more extensive part , would there , by the violence of the Motion given , be thrown all about the Receiver in small drops , some of which were likely to fall on the Woollen , where being heated by the Motion of the premention 'd Glass , evaporated , appearing as a halo around the Light ; for since I made a Contrivance , to prevent the Waters scattering , no such Appearance has happened .
Sometimes I have observed the Light to break from the Agitated Glass , in as odd a form as Lightning : Particularly at a time when I used some List of Cloath , that had been drenched in Spirit of Wine , which was fastened to one Arm of the Brass Spring , on the other of which was tied some of the same List , that had been steeped in Water impregnated with Salt-petre ; but both the pieces of List were very well dried before I made use of them .
At another time I made use of two flat Shells of Oysters well dried ; instead of the Woollen for the Attrition of the Glass , each Arm of the Brass Spring had one fixed to it .
Upon the usual Motion given the Glass in Vacuo , a Light appeared , resembling a fierce flaming Spark , just upon the spot where the Glass and Shells touched one upon another .
The Light seemed not to extend itself , but was comprehended in a small Compass .
I tried next what would ensue upon the Attrition of Woollen on the premention 'd Shells in Vacuo .
The success was , that there was a Light produced , but appeared very dim and gloomy , at best like a faint Halo .
After all these , I thought it not amiss , to try in what degree the Woollen might contribute to the Phenomenon of the foregoing Experiments .
I took some of the List formerly mentioned , and bound it about the edge of a Wooden Wheel I had caus 'd to be Turned for that purpose ; the Wheel , with its Woollen edge , I fastened on the Spindle , as usual , and upon the Brass Spring was used the same Gartering , as in the first Experiment .
These being put together , as in all the others , and the Receiver exhausted , the large Wheel was turned , and upon the Attrition of the Woollens , a small glimmering Light did succeed ; but the Continuance of the Motion , gave no encouragement to hope for any increase of it .
I expected to have found the Woollens at least discoloured , upon the Friction of them , which was sometimes made more than moderate .
On the contrary , not the least Sign of any such thing appeared .
The Light totally disappeared , upon the readmission of less than a quarter of the Recipients natural Content of Air , altho the Attrition then made was as great as it had been at any time before .
I cannot discover that the various Colours of Woollen ( as yet that I have tried ) does any thing contribute to the Different Colours of Light , exhibited in any of these Experiments .
Experiment IV .
Touching the Production of a Considerable Light , upon the Attrition of Glass on Glass in Vacuo , and in Common Air .
For this Experiment I made use of a Globular Glass , about three Inches Diameter , fixed on the Spindle , ( as in the last , ) and to the two Arms of the Brass Spring ( taken notice of in the same ) were tied two slips of thin Board ; to each of which were first fastened two pieces of Glass Tube , by putting some small Neal 'd Wires through their Cavities , which Wires likewise passing through some holes of the Board made for that purpose , kept them tight in their places , ( in form of Fig. 5 .
) In this Mode , being covered with a large Receiver , and fitted in all respects as usual , the Pump was wrought ; which in a little time had exhausted the Air from it .
Then upon turning the large Wheel , a swift Motion was given to the included Glass Globe , in which Motion , rubbing on the premention 'd Tubes , a considerable Light was exhibited : The whole Included Apparatus became perfectly distinguishable by it , and would have been much more so , had not the Daylight prevented : It then being but very little after 5 .
P. M. a clear Horizon , and in an open Room , when the Experiment was made .
The Colour of the Light produced resembled Melted Glass , not only just on the parts where the friction was made , but seemingly likewise at the Extremes of the Tubes A. B. where the Globe in its motion touched them not .
What farther Observable in this Experiment was , That upon suffering the Air to re-enter the Recipient at several times , at every of which , the Motion being given , as at first , no sensible Decay of Light , or Colour of it appeared , excepting at last , when the Tubes by much rubbing became I~~iiiiiiiiii worn worn , and consequently lessened in their Spring ; so the Light ( in proportion to the abatement of their force on the Moving Body , ) would be diminished ; as I have often observed , when the Motion has been made for some small time , only in Vacuo , or in Common Air .
And had the Experiment been begun where it finished , the lesser quantity of Light ( from the premention 'd Cause ) would then have been exhibited in Vacuo .
Hence it follows , That the Different Mediums did no ways contribute to the Augmentation or Diminution of the Light produced , but seems wholly to proceed from the weakening of the Spring , by the wear of the Bodies ; which is begot by the violent Attrition of one upon the other in either medium .
I do not find that the polish , or glaze , on the outside of a Glass , adds any thing to the Light , having produced the same by a Glass much worn by often using .
I have repeated the same Experiment about noon in a clear day ; the success was , that the Light produced in Vacuo was then as sensible to fight , as a piece of red hot Glass of the same bigness at the same time would have appeared in the open Air .
But notwithstanding the Appearance is such , it is no longer so than the Motion is continued .
Hence it is to be observed , That altho it seems to be of the Colour of Red hot , or Melted , yet it is not ; for were it really so , it must of Necessity some small time outlive the Motion ; which in the darkest Night I could ( as yet ) never discover .
Experiment V. Touching the Production of Light upon the Attrition of Glass on Glass under Water .
This Experiment was nothing more than a Repetition of the last , saving only the Included Apparatus was entirely covered with Water : From the surface of which when the Air came to be withdrawn , and the great Wheel turned as usual , it was easy to discover a pretty smart Light , upon the first motion of the Included Glass Globe on the Tubes , ~illuminating the whole body of the Liquid .
The parts of the Tubes where the friction was made by the Globe were distinguishably Red ; but soon lessened in their Appearance , and in no long time extinguished .
The Water ( by the Continuance of the Motion ) approaching nearer and nearer to the Colour of Whey ; and at last became so thick , by the Grit or Powder produced by the Attrition of the Glasses , that the Light could then be but just discovered thro the Body of it , and that not constantly , but like faint flashes at distances .
This Experiment I have made , when it has succeeded to appear more Luminous than at this trial .
I have observed the Dust ( produced from the Glasses upon their Attrition ) thro a good Microscope , but could not learn by my greatest attention that the parts were any ways melted ; they appeared of a long and slender figure .
Iiiiiiiiiiiii2 IV .
Part

