Variations in Pressure and Composition of Blood in Cholera .
291 vein leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum .
A very characteristic feature of Sphenodon is the development of large transverse sinuses resembling those of the crocodile , but these communicate with the extracranial vascular system in quite a different manner from that described by Rathke in the latter animal .
The Variations in the Pressure and Composition of the Blood Cholera ; and their Bearing on the Success of Hypertonic Saline Transfusion in its Treatment .
By Leonard Rogers , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , F.R.C.S. , I.M.S. , Professor of Pathology , Calcutta .
( Communicated by Sir T. Lauder Brunton , Bart. , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1909 .
) During the quarter of a century which has elapsed since the discovery by Prof. Koch of the comma bacillus of cholera , research work has been almost .confined to the bacteriology of the subject .
Unfortunately , with the exception of M. Haffkine 's prophylactic inoculations , which are now very little used even in India , this line of work has done little or nothing to help the practitioner who is confronted with the treatment of this terrible disease .
FTo powerful antitoxic serum of practical value has been produced , and even if such should still be obtained , many patients come under treatment in such a state of collapse that no medicine can be absorbed , even if retained .
The old controversy between the evacuant and conservative methods of treatment has long since ended in the practically universal adoption of the latter , although as late as 1866 Dr. George Johnson advocated castor oil , denying that there was any relationship between the amount of fluid lost from the body and the mortality , while he strenuously opposed the use of intravenous saline injections to replace it .
There is still much difference of opinion about the latter treatment , for although all who have used transfusions testify to the remarkable immediate improvement in the pulse and general condition , yet this is commonly of such brief duration that many think it only serves to needlessly prolong the agony of the patient , so that of recent years it has been only exceptionally resorted to in India .
For a long-time I have been investigating the blood changes in cholera ( 1 ) , in \#166 ; the hope of finding some indication for a more rational and successful line of 292 Prof. L. Rogers .
Variations in Pressure and [ Dec. 4 , treatment , than the mere administration of more or less useful drugs , into a gastro-intestinal tract , which is too congested to retain any appreciable powers of absorption .
The great loss of fluid from the blood was shown by marked increase of the number of red corpuscles per cubic millimetre , which sometimes rose from 5,000,000 to over 8,000,000 , while , like others , I found leucocytosis to be constantly present , and when of a marked degree to be of bad prognostic value .
Differential counts showed a great decrease of the lymphocytes , corresponding with their accumulation in the lymphoid tissue of the alimentary tract , while the large mononuclears were markedly increased , both relatively and absolutely , this change being in proportion to the mortality , indicating its probable relationship to some specific toxin of the disease .
These changes were often of great value in the difficult diagnosis of cholera from ptomaine poisoning , as I have not found them in the latter affection .
More recently I have studied the blood-pressure in cholera as an indication for the necessity of transfusion and the quantities to be injected .
My first-experiments in this line were carried out in conjunction with Captain J. W. D. Megaw , IM .
S. ( 2 ) , who was in charge of the cholera patients at the Calcutta Medical College , normal saline solution ( 1 drachm to the pint ) being used in accordance with the general custom .
The patients were nearly all natives of India , whose normal blood-pressure averages only about 100 mm. , being thus considerably lower than that of Europeans .
In cholera , the pressure was rarely over 50 mm. on the admission of the patients , while in many it was too low to be estimated in the radial artery , owing to absence of any pulse at the wrist .
We found that 1 pint of saline solution injected into a vein usually had very little effect in raising it , but a second pint generally increased it to 90 mm. or more .
The immediate effects of this treatment were little short of marvellous .
The terrible restlessness and cramps disappeared , and the worn out patient often fell asleep before its completion .
The pulse was fully restored , and the blueness and coldness were replaced by the normal pink hue of the lips and nails and warmth of the extremities .
A few improved steadily from that time , but only too frequently within 2 to 12 hours the copious rice water stools and vomiting recurred , and the patient relapsed into as bad a condition as before , with complete loss of the improvement in the blood-pressure .
Repeated transfusions usually failed to save such patients , and although the mortality did show some reduction during the year Captain Megaw continued them , yet the disappointments were so many that the method soon came to be adopted only in a few desperate cases , and was eventually almost entirely abandoned once more , as it had been by so many earlier enthusiasts .
Composition of the Blood Cholera .
1908 .
] On thinking over the causes of this comparative failure , the following possible explanation occurred to me .
The great loss of fluid through the stomach and bowels produces a concentration of the blood , which might be expected to increase the proportion of salts it contains , and therefore present a greater osmotic resistance to further draining off of fluid through the damaged intestinal mucous membrane .
Thus , a conservative process , tending to check the diarrhoea , would come into action , which would be interfered with by the injection into the blood stream of large quantities of normal salt solution of lower salt content than the now concentrated hypertonic blood-serum .
The drain through the bowel would therefore be restarted , and the restored fluid and blood-pressure rapidly lost again , as is so commonly seen in actual practice .
If this view is correct , the indication would be to inject hypertonic salt solutions , so as to supply sufficient fluid to restore the circulation , and at the same time maintain the conservative beneficial hypertonicity of the blood , which would tend to carry more fluid into the circulation , instead of removing it through the damaged bowel wall .
In 1907 I had an opportunity of discussing this point with both Sir Lauder Brunton , Bart. , E.R.S. , and Prof. Buckmaster , who were of the opinion that moderately nypertonic salt solutions might safely be injected intravenously .
The unusually great prevalence of cholera during the first half of 1908 in Calcutta furnished abundant opportunities for testing the value of intravenous transfusions of hypertonic salt solutions , for a trial of which I am greatly indebted to Captain Maxwell Mackelvie , I.M.S. , who had in the meantime succeeded to the charge of the cholera wards .
At first , O'Ofi-per-cent .
sodium chloride solution was tried , and , as the results appeared to be distinctly more favourable than with the previously used 0'65-per-cent .
one , it was soon raised to P35 , or 2 drachms to the pint .
The quantities injected were also raised by Capf ain Mackelvie to 3 or 4 pints at a time .
In a note ( 3 ) published in the ' Indian Medical Gazette ' in May , 1908 , we recorded the results in 72 consecutive cases , in which transfusion with the above strength was used in all who required it , with a mortality of only 27'8 per cent. , as compared with an average during the five years preceding the revival of transfusion at the hospital of 61*2 per cent. Moreover , at a neighbouring hospital , during the same period as our cases were treated , the mortality was just twice as great , intravenous injections not being used there , although their previous mortality during a series of years was practically the same as at the Medical College Hospital , namely , 63 against 61 per cent. At the present time our cases number 175 , with a death-rate of 33 per cent. , including moribund and complicated ones , which is but a very little over half that of the pretransfusion period , although the mortality is always exceptionally high in Table of Blood Changes in Cholera .
1 Percentage of serum in the blood .
2 Percentage loss of serum from the blood .
3 Total loss of fluid from the blood .
4 Pints of saline intravenously .
5 Percentage of serum after transfusion .
[ 7 Blood-pressure .
8 Strength of NaCl injected .
9 10 Percentage of chlorides in blood .
Remarks .
Before trans- fusion .
After trans- fusion .
Before trans- fusion .
After trans- fusion .
i. ] j chtxil OclSG examinee 1 in Acuti e Stage .
ozs .
per cent. 1 30 65 43 4 66 40 80 1 -35 0-73 0-89 2nd transfusion .
2 35 55 36 3 65 50 80 1 -35 \#151 ; \#151 ; 3rd transfusion .
3 38 51 334 4 59 Nil 100 1 -35 4 21 78 514 3 \#151 ; 33 115 1 -35 5 n 90 59 4 4 50 33 110 1 -35 0-67 0-88 2nd transfusion .
6 31 64 42 4 69 30 100 1 -35 1 -oo 1 -09 Very old man .
hr 39 47 31 4 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 -35 0-75 Averages \#151 ; 64 42 3 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-79 0-95 II .
Cases of Recovery after Transfusion .
8 42 40 264 2 56 \#151 ; 110 1 -35 0-74 1 -04 9 34 58 384 34 70 55 105 1 -35 0-90 1 -27 10 29 71 47 4 62 35 100 1 -35 \#151 ; 0-80 Severe , 2nd transfusion .
11 45 33 214 34 \#151 ; 55 110 1 -35 0-74 12 43 37 24 4 59 \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 -35 0-94 1 -05 13 38 51 334 4 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 -35 1 -05 1 -02 14 32 62 41 4 56 60 110 1 35 1 -22 1 -25 2nd transfusion .
15 36 55 36 ?
\#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-98 1 -21 16 32 62 41 4 64 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-74 0-86 Severe .
1/ 1 Q \#151 ; p \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-69 0-99 lo \#151 ; \#151 ; 4 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 0*68 1 -oo 3 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 -22 1 25 Averages \#151 ; 52 34 - 1 r-~ III .
Cases of Recovery without Transfusion .
20 43 37 24 21 42 40 264 .
55 22 23 24 47 49 | 38 27 22 51 1 18 144 334 i __ .
60 90 80 \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 -06 0 *81 0*90 \ Averages \ ~ ^ 35 \ 23 *3 " 1 - i - 1 \#151 ; \#151 ; O *90 1 -07 294 Prof. L. Rogers .
Variations in Pressure and [ Dec. 4 , 1908 .
] Composition of the Blood in Cholera .
such epidemic years as the present one , and the patients were frequently too numerous to allow of as many being transfused as we should have liked .
Very favourable reports have also reached me from two other medical officers who have tried hypertonic solutions in cholera .
During the last few months I have made a number of observations on the blood changes before and after transfusion in cholera , which appear to furnish a rational basis for the regular use of large hypertonic transfusions in the treatment of the disease , and propose to deal with them in the present communication .
The data have all been tabulated for convenience of reference .
The Relationship of the Amount of Fluid lost from the Blood in Cholera to the Degree of Collapse and the Death-rate .
As has been pointed out by Macnamara , Wall , and others , the amount of the watery evacuations in cholera will not furnish accurate data for estimating the degree to which the blood is drained of fluid , for the very rapid escape of 2 or 3 pints will have a far greater effect on the circulation than much more considerable loss spread over a longer time .
Thus , in the so-called cholera sicca , in which death takes place without actual diarrhoea , the small intestines always contain several pints of liquid , the rapid draining of which from the blood has caused fatal circulatory failure .
In order to ascertain the real loss of fluid from the blood in cholera , and the effects of various quantities of intravenous saline injections required to replace it , I have taken blood immediately before and after transfusion , defibrinated it at once , and measured the relative volumes of corpuscles and serum by centrifuging in the haemocrite .
As the red corpuscles are not lost to the circulation , but only the fluids of the blood , the reduction in the volume of serum can be readily calculated , and the actual loss of fluid from the serum of the blood estimated from the total volume of the blood in the body .
According to some observations on healthy Bengalis by Captain McCay , I.M.S. , the average proportions of corpuscles and serum respectively were 45 and 55 per cent. , showing a slightly smaller proportion of corpuscles than in Europeans .
Assuming that the red corpuscles are not lost from the circulation , the diminution in the serum can be calculated by the following formula from the hsemocrite figures .
As the percentage volume of corpuscles found is to the normal value ( 45 per cent. ) , so is the volume of serum found to X. Eor example , if in a case of cholera the volume of corpuscles is 71 per cent , and of serum 29 per cent. , then as 71 : 45 : : 29 : X , and X = 16 .
296 Prof. L. Rogers .
Variations Pressure and [ Dec. 4 , That is , out of 55 original volumes of serum in the normal native blood only 16 remain , so the loss is 39 out of 55 volumes , or 71 per cent , of the total serum of the blood .
In this way the figures given in column 2 have been arrived at .
Further , taking the total circulating blood as one-thirteenth of the body weight ( the exact amount is still disputed , but as my figures have but a relative value , this is immaterial in the present instance ) , I estimate the amount of blood in the body of a native of average weight as 6 pints , or 120 ounces .
The percentage of serum being 55 , this would give 66 ounces of blood serum in the circulation .
The percentage loss in a given case having been calculated as above , the absolute loss in ounces is easily obtained , and the figures are given in column 3 of the table .
The cases have been subdivided , in accordance with the severity of the cases , into the three following classes .
Firstly , those examined in the acute stage of the disease , which proved fatal from its direct effects .
( Four cases in which the patients recovered from the collapse stage to die of late complications have been omitted , as the deaths were due to such affections as dysentery and parotid abscess , which.afford no indication of the original severity of the cholera .
) Secondly , those who showed such well-marked collapse as to require intravenous transfusion , but ultimately made a good recovery .
Thirdly , milder , though well-marked , cases of cholera , in which transfusion was not necessary .
The disease in most of the cases was confirmed bacteriologically , although the diagnosis was left to the physician in charge , so as to be strictly comparable with earlier series .
The average loss of fluid from the blood in each class is given in the table , and clearly demonstrates that the urgency and fatality of the cases was in direct proportion to the diminution in the volume of the blood-serum .
Thus , among those in which the disease proved directly fatal , the loss of serum averaged no less than 64 per cent. , or almost two-thirds , the total loss being 42 out of 66 ounces .
In the second class of recoveries after transfusion there was a loss of 52 per cent , of the serum , or 34 ounces , while in the third series of recoveries without transfusion the losses averaged only 35 per cent. , or 23*3 ounces .
Tli c Specific Gravity of the Blood in Cholera.\#151 ; The above observations furnish accurate estimations of the concentration of the blood due to loss of fluid in cholera , and demonstrate a definite relationship between its degree and the severity of the disease , while they indicate the necessity of replacing the loss in severe cases by some form of transfusion .
For clinical purposes , however , some simpler method of rapidly ascertaining the required information is essential , especially in Indian hospitals far removed from laboratory conveniences .
An easy , and sufficiently accurate , way is to estimate the 1908 .
] Composition of the Blood in Cholera .
specific gravity of the blood by the chloroform and benzene method , or more conveniently in a hot climate by Lloyd Jones ' plan of using a series of small bottles containing solutions of glycerine in water of different specific gravities , into several of which a drop of blood can be placed until the one in which it neither sinks nor rises is found .
I have made a number of observations in this manner , and find that in bad cases of cholera the specific gravity usually rises over 1070 , while in those which did not require transfusion it only reached up to about 1065 , so that a clinically valuable approximate estimation of the concentration of the blood in cholera can thus , be very rapidly obtained at the bedside .
Moreover , this test can be repeated , during transfusion so as to ascertain when the blood has been diluted down , to its normal point , or better , a little below it , and the quantity of fluid injected can be so regulated .
The Quantity of Fluid required to replace the Loss in Cholera. .
Columns 1 and 5 in the table show the percentage volume of serum in the blood before and after intravenous transfusion with 1*35 sodium chloride solution in the quantities indicated in column 4 .
The usual amount was 4 pints , and in several successful cases this quantity was repeated a second time .
These are larger amounts than are usually recommended for intravenous use in cholera , but have given very good results .
Moreover , column 5 of the table shows that they did not increase the volume of serum very materially above the normal level of 55 per cent. , while any excess will pass , rapidly into the greatly drained tissues , and some allowance must be made for further losses through the bowel before the disease completely subsides .
In several cases the blood was found to have again become so concentrated by the following day as to necessitate a second injection , with ultimate recovery , so that the amounts used were certainly not excessive .
At the same time there must be a limit to the quantities that can be rapidly administered intravenously at one time , and the fact that in several cases the volume of serum was raised to between 65 and 70 per cent , appears to indicate that 4 pints is sufficient in most cases .
In the very exceptional concentration of the blood in case 5 , however , even this amount failed to increase the serum even to the normal point , the specific gravity after the injection being also 1064 , or considerably above the normal , and the patient , ultimately died .
In the less severe types much fluid can be got into the system by rectal injections , which are of great value .
Subcutaneous injections are often used , but act much more slowly than intravenous ones in raising the blood-pressure , and are very liable to be followed by abscess in the low state of VOL. lxxxi.\#151 ; B. Y 298 Prof. L. Rogers .
Variations Pressure and [ Dec. 4 , vitality of the tissues in cholera .
I have recently had a simple cannula constructed with circular end sharpened like a cork borer , which can be safely passed through the abdominal wall after incising the skin and fascia .
By this means saline fluid can be rapidly run directly into the abdominal cavity , and it has been successfully used in a number of cholera cases in one of the Calcutta hospitals .
It can also be carried out in a much shorter time than the more difficult operation of tying a cannula into the collapsed vein of a cholera patient , but it takes several hours to be absorbed , so is less efficient in urgent cases than the intravenous injections .
The hypertonic solutions have been found to give better results than normal saline by all methods of administration .
The Loss of Chlorides from the Blood in Relation to Hypertonic Transfusions .
Edmund Parkes , in 1849 , showed that the rice-water stools of cholera contain very little albumen , but from \ to 1 per cent , of salts , so that for every hundred ounces of fluid evacuations from the bowel nearly an ounce of salt is lost from the blood and tissues .
The main bulk of the salts consists of chlorides , which may be taken as a guide to the amount in the blood at any time .
Some recent estimations made by me gave an average of 053 per cent , of chlorides in cholera stools .
The vomited matter contains much less salt than the bowel discharges , apparently owing to the gastric mucous membrane being less involved in the disease processes than the intestinal .
Different observers have obtained very varying results as regards the percentage of salts found in the blood in cholera , some maintaining that they are higher , and others lower , than normal , but the observations on this point in the very limited literature available in Calcutta were all made many years ago .
I have , therefore , estimated by the silver nitrate method the amount of chlorides in the blood in a number of cases both before and after transfusion with the 1'35-per-cent , sodium chloride solution .
The results are shown in columns 9 and 10 of the table .
Taking first cases 1\#151 ; 7 , which were fatal in the acute stage , we must bear in mind that on the average two-thirds of the fluid had been lost from their blood .
If only the water had been removed without any saline constituents , then the chlorides should have been present in three times the normal amounts .
The percentage of salts in the blood in Bengalis has been found by Captain McCay to be somewhat higher than in Europeans , namely about 1 per cent. , about 0'8 per cent , of which are chlorides .
Yet in the fatal cholera cases , in spite of the great concentration of the blood , the chlorides were below the normal in four out of five , the single exception being a very old man who died of heart failure .
Fully two-thirds of the total chlorides of 1908 .
] Composition of the Blood Cholera .
the blood must , therefore , have been lost .
In case 5 , with only 0*67 per cent , of chlorides , the serum showed actual commencing haemolysis , which completely disappeared when they had been raised to 088 by hypertonic transfusion , while similar results have been noted in a few other cases with very low salt content .
Column 10 shows that a material rise in the percentage of chlorides in the blood was obtained by transfusion of 3 to 4 pints of r35-per-cent .
sodium chloride solution , but the average amount after it was still only 095 per cent. On turning to the recovering cases 8 to 24 , we find the average percentage of chlorides in the blood before transfusion was 090 , or considerably higher than in the fatal series , and the same remark applies to the figures obtained after transfusion , when the average was T07 per cent. Moreover , in cases 10 and 16 , which showed a low amount of chlorides after the injection , the disease was very severe , and in one a second transfusion was necessary to save the patient .
It will be observed that several of the cases , which recovered after the injections , showed very low chlorides in the blood at the first estimation , but when they were raised to about 1 per cent , or over by the hypertonic solutions , the patients almost invariably did well as far as the collapse stage of the disease was concerned , which is the most dangerous period in cholera .
Another striking feature was the far less tendency of the hypertonic solutions to restart the copious rice-water stools , which so commonly renders the use of normal salines of such very temporary value .
It is not too much to say that at the Medical College Hospital , where cholera patients are usually brought in an advanced stage of collapse , the simple substitution of 2 drachms of salt to the pint instead of one , for transfusion , has so revolutionised the treatment , that , whereas formerly it was considered a matter for surprise when a severe case of cholera recovered , it is now a great disappointment when such a case is lost in the collapse stage .
The Coagulability of the Blood in Cholera .
A few observations on the clotting power of the blood have been made by Sir Almroth Wright 's method .
The results were very variable , the time being normal in some , slightly reduced in most , and very markedly in a few .
It is noteworthy that in several of the worst cases , with a specially low percentage of chlorides , blood taken in glass tubes remained quite uncoagulated after several hours , and in one such case there were haemorrhagic stools , found post mortem to be dependent on extensive petechial haemorrhages in the caecum .
After transfusion with hypertonic solutions the blood in such cases clotted firmly and gave a clear serum .
In view , however , of the 300 Prof. L. Rogers .
Variations m Pressure and [ Dec. 4 , frequency of reduction of the clotting power of the blood in cholera , I now add 3 grains of calcium chloride to each pint of salt solution , and have seen no haemorrhagic stools in the few cases since treated .
Strength of the Hypertonic Solutions .
In a few cases , l*65-per-cent .
solution ( 2| drachms jfco the pint ) were used with good results , but as the P35 per cent , has proved successful in so many cases , and , moreover , suffices to raise the chlorides in the blood well above the normal , it is recommended for routine use .
The higher strength may be reserved for second transfusions in very severe cases , or when the lower strength has not increased the percentage of chlorides in the blood to the desired point of 1 per cent , or over , and especially if watery diarrhoea continues .
We have never seen any harm from running these solutions rapidly into a vein in cholera , 4 pints having frequently been administered in 20 minutes .
The specific gravity of the 1*35 solutionis 1006 , and of 1*65 is .
1008 , a knowledge of which allows the strength of the solution to be rapidly verified .
Effects of Intravenous Saline Injections on the Blood-pressure .
The blood-pressures immediately before and after transfusions are shown in columns 6 and 7 of the table .
Nil means that there was absolutely no pulse at the wrist , so it could not be recorded in the radial artery , which was the site of the other observations .
It usually required about three pints to raise the blood-pressure to 100 mm. , which is the normal for Hindus .
Experience showed that the best results were obtained by continuing the injections until the pressure rose somewhat above that point , for which purpose 4 pints were generally necessary , and allow some reserve .
In some of the worst cases it was impossible to get it above 80 mm. , as in numbers 1 and 2 in the table , for it remained at that point in spite of another pint being run in .
One instance was met with in which even 6| pints failed to raise the pressure above 65 mm. In such there appears to be some vasomotor paralysis present , possibly due to absorption of albumoses through the damaged intestinal mucous membrane .
Adrenalin forces up the pressure in them , but its effects are only very temporary , as I formerly found it to be in the vasomotor paralysis of viperine snake poisons ( 4 ) .
The blood-pressure , then , is a valuable guide to the amount of saline solution to be run in , a pressure slightly above the normal being aimed at ; but if 4 or more pints have been given , and the last 20 ounces or so have produced no further improvement , it is useless to continue it at that time .
Fortunately a degree of vasomotor paralysis which prevents the pressure being raised to 90 or 100 mm. in natives of India is rare , as such have always terminated fatally in my experience .
1908 .
] Composition of the Blood Cholera .
The Relationship of Blood-pressure to Post-choleraic Uraemia .
One result of tiding so many severe cases of cholera over the collapse stage by large hypertonic saline transfusions , is to accentuate the importance of uraemia in the later stages of the disease .
This very serious complication is especially seen in two distinct classes of cases :\#151 ; Firstly , in patients brought to hospital more than 48 hours after the onset of the symptoms , which not infrequently have been comparatively mild at the onset , and whose treatment has been neglected .
Secondly , the other extreme of patients admitted early on account of the great severity of the affection , who have been supported by repeated transfusions to the stage of reaction , when it is found to be extremely difficult to restore the renal secretory activity , which has been in abeyance during the prolonged period of very low blood-pressure .
On cutting sections of the kidneys of patients who had died in the uraemic .
stage of cholera , I was much struck by the amount of effused blood in and around the convoluted and straight tubules and the tense state of the capsule enclosing the extremely congested organ : all suggesting an actual mechanical difficulty in the re-establishment of an efficient circulation through the organ .
In order to test if this was the case or not , I tried perfusion of normal saline solution through the renal artery from different heights , so as to measure the actual pressure required to obtain a fairly full outflow from the renal veins .
For this purpose I used both healthy kidneys , got from the bodies of patients dying of other diseases , and also several from those who had succumbed to the uraemia of cholera .
In the former , a pressure equivalent to 20 or 30 mm. of mercury sufficed to obtain a good flow through the kidney circulation .
On the other hand , in the cholera ones no flow at all was got under a pressure of about 60 mm. , and then only drop by drop , and it was not until 90 or 100 mm. was reached that anything like a full stream was observed .
In one experiment , subsequent slitting of the capsule of the organ reduced the pressure required by about 20 mm. In a case of cholera in which the patient died of late complication with empyema , after the secretion of the urine had been freely established a pressure equivalent to 30 mm. of mercury sufficed for the free perfusion of normal saline through the kidneys , showing that it was only in ura3inic cases that obstruction of the renal circulation existed in such a marked degree .
Since the above observations were made , the blood-pressure has been carefully watched day by day after the termination of the collapse stage , and it has been found that the uraemic symptoms are more common in those whose blood-pressures do not rise above 100 mm. For example , two very severe cases of cholera were admitted to hospital at about the same time , both of whom received two saline transfusions of 4 pints each , and 302 Variations in Pressure and Composition of Blood in Cholera .
recovered from the collapse stage .
On the fifth day both had passed little or no urine and showed definite urtemic symptoms .
The blood-pressure of one was now only just 100 mm. and he died the following night of uraemia .
That of the other was 120 mm. , and he began to pass urine that day , and made a good recovery .
Soon after another patient developed well-marked uraemia , his respirations being over 40 per minute and very laboured , while he was practically unconscious , and apparently in a hopeless state .
As his blood-pressure was found to be only just 100 mm. , adrenalin and digitalis were administered subcutaneously , and on the following morning his pressure was 110 mm. , he had recovered consciousness , was passing urine freely , and got well from that time .
Thus , the indications derived from the post-mortem kidney perfusion experiments have been borne out in practice , and it is clear that the blood-pressure is the most important factor to be attended to in the treatment of the deficient renal secretion , which ensues in so many severe cholera cases , after the danger of death from collapse has been averted by saline transfusions .
Condusions 1 .
In cholera there is a very definite relationship between the amount of fluid lost from the blood and the severity and mortality of the disease .
2 .
This loss is usually so great as to indicate saline transfusions to restore the circulation .
3 .
Injections of normal salt solutions are commonly of only very temporary benefit .
4 .
Hypertonic salt solutions ( T35-per-cent .
sodium chloride , or 2 drachms to the pint ) are much more effective , their use having reduced the mortality by about one-half .
5 .
A great loss of chlorides from the blood occurs in cholera , most marked in the worst cases .
If the percentage of chloride is considerably raised by the intravenous injection of hypertonic salt solutions recovery usually ensues .
6 .
The development of urtemia in the reaction stage of cholera is associated with a comparatively low blood-pressure , measures to raise which are indicated for the prevention and treatment of this very serious complication .
REFERENCES .
1 .
' Lancet , ' 1902 , vol. 2 .
2 .
' Indian Medical Gazette , ' March , 1908 .
3 .
Ibid. , May , 1908 .
4 .
' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 197 ( 1904 ) , p. 123 .

