326 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Nuclei .
[ Nov. 20 , f al directions so kindly furnished ns by Professor Stokes , and find that it shows the phenomenon in a marked manner , whether dissolved in alcohol or ether .
The compound is easily decomposed by heat under ordinary circumstances , and yet can be dissolved in gaseous menstrua , and raised to a temperature of 350 ' without suffering any decomposition , showing the same absorption spectrum at that elevated temperature as at 15 ' .
We considered that it would be most interesting to examine by this method a body such as sodium , which , besides being an element , yields in the gaseous state sharp absorption lines .
An opportunity seemed to be afforded by the blue solution of sodium in liquefied ammonia , described by Gore , * but we found that , on raising the ammonia above its critical point , the sodium combined with some constituent of the gas , forming a white solid , and yielding a permanent gas , probably hydrogen .
There seems , in some cases , to be a slight shifting of the absorption bands towards the red , as the temperature rises , but we have as yet been able to make no accurate measurements .
When the solid is precipitated by suddenly reducing the pressure , it is crystalline , and may be brought down as a " snow " in the gas , or on the glass as a " frost , " but it is always easily redissolved by the gas on increasing the pressure .
These phenomena are seen to the best advantage by a solution of potassic iodide in absolute alcohol .
We have , then , the phenomenon of a solid with no measurable gaseous pressure , dissolving in a gas , and not being affected by the passage of its menstruum through the critical point to the liquid state , showing it to be a true case of gaseous solution of a solid .
VII .
" On the Action of Nuclei in producing the Sudden Solidification of Supersaturated Solutions of Glauber 's Salt .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received October 6 , 1879 .
I propose now to state the general conclusions at which I have arrived since resuming the study of this subject two years ago.f The remarks that will be made refer to solutions of the typical salt , sodic sulphate , in the proportions of 6 of salt to 3 of water .
In my first two papers on supersaturated saline solutions , J a nucleus is defined as a body that has a stronger adhesion for the salt , or for the liquid of a solution , than subsists between the salt and the liquid .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxi , p. 145 .
+ " Proo .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvi , p. 523 .
I " Phil. Trans. , " 1868 and 1871 .
1879 .
] Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Nuclei .
Many examples are given in which oils , fixed and volatile , alcohol , ether , \amp ; c. , spreading on the surface of the solution , lead to the separation of salt , and the solidification of the solution ; while , if such liquids , instead of spreading , assume a lenticular form , they become inactive , and by shaking the flask with a circular motion , are dispersed through the solution in numerous globules , without any immediate nuclear action .
There are several circumstances which favour the action of these liquid nuclei , such as ( 1 ) chemically clean flasks and solutions , so as to maintain ( 2 ) the surface-tension of the solution as high as possible , in order to spread the oils ; ( 3 ) bright and clear weather , with strong evaporative force .
Under such conditions the oils , \amp ; c. , usually form films with nuclear action .
But it has been shown that in closed flasks , with special precautions against the entrance of particles from the air , the oils , \amp ; c. , may be made to spread on the surface of these solutions without any nuclear effect .
The negative results arrived at by M. Viollette , Mr. Liversidge , and other eminent observers , led them to conclude that oils , alcohol , ether , \amp ; c. , as well as porous bodies , have no action whatever on these solutions , and that the only nucleus is a salt of the same kind as the one in solution , or isomeric therewith ; and that , when the oils , \amp ; c. , appear to act they really contain particles of such a salt ; or when the flask is uncovered for the purpose of introducing the oil , \amp ; c. , such a saline speck enters from the air , which is supposed to contain saline nuclei floating about in it .
The objections made to my .mode of experimenting , as well as to my conclusions , were fair enough , since , if my experiments always contained a flaw , the conclusions drawn from them would be worthless .
But the thousands of results , recorded in my note books , are sufficiently harmonious to satisfy me \#163 ; hat my mode of experimenting is trustworthy ; nevertheless , I have tb account for the results and conclusions of other observers which stand in direct opposition to mine .
It was a long time before I could hit upon a right method of pursuing the inquiry .
At length I was led to make a number of observations daily , during some months , on the action of a freshly-distilled volatile oil on solutions of sqdic sulphate , and found that during certain winds the oil was active , and that , while other winds prevailed , it was passive.* It was clear then that , during some winds , a force was present in the air which rendered the oil active ; while , during other winds , the force being absent , the oil became passive .
I succeeded in identifying this force with ozone ; and the point now to be determined is , * These observations were made at Highgate .
Other observations by the sea-side , \amp ; c. , are noticed in " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " vol. xxix , p. 24 .
328 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Nuclei .
[ Nov. 20 , what is the peculiar function of ozone in rendering oils , \amp ; c. , active , as nuclei ? . .
* It is evident , from the behaviour of ozone on volatile oils exposed to its influence that its action is an oxidising one , diminishing their cohesion , just as rust weakens the cohesive force of the particles in a bar of iron .
The effect which ozone produces quickly on a volatile oil is produced slowly on the same oil by long keeping .
Its cohesive force is so far weakened , if not destroyed , that a drop of it on the surface of a solution no longer tends to assume the lenticular form , or to disperse in globules through the solution .
Under such circumstances- , since oil adheres much more strongly to salt than to water , and the supersaturated solution , being a highly charged system , capable of yielding to a force that is exerted in the right direction , * such an oil is capable of adhering to , and separating , a portion of the salt , and the action , once begun , is propagated rapidly , until the whole solution is solid .
The action of a foreign nucleus introduced into the cold solution from without , is to determine the formation of the ten-atom or normal salt : but if a solid body be boiled up with the solution , and the covered flask be left to cool to temperatures about and below 40 ' F. , the modified or seven-watered salt will be found clustered about the solid body .
An explanation of this may be found in the behaviour of the salt while undergoing solution .
Suppose the flask to contain six parts of the crystallised , not effloresced , salt and three of water .
If the heat be applied too strongly , the salt gives up its water of crystallisation , and the anhydrous salt is thrown down , and produces violent bumpings of the flask .
But if the heat be kept below the temperature of maximum solubility of the salt ( about 93 F. ) until the whole of it is dissolved , the solution may be raised to the boiling point and also be cooled down in covered vessels to about 40 ' F. , without any separation of salt .
The anhydrous salt now appears to be in solution , " 1 " and a solid body previously heated in the solution forms a portion of it , or rather a portion of the flask , and may be regarded as a prolongation of its sides .
Under a proper reduction of temperature , crystals of the seven-atom salt will cluster about such a body , but it cannot be said to exert any active nuclear function .
It was pointed out by Ziz , as long ago as the year 1809 , * See a paper " On the Function of the sides of the Vessel in maintaining the State of Supersaturation .
" " IJroc .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii , p. 189 .
+ See " Chemical News , " 3rd and 10th December , 1869 .
In Wullner s experiments on the elasticity of steam , when sodic sulphate was added to the water , the diminution in the elasticity was found to be proportional to the quantity of salt in solution at temperatures from 10 ' to 100 ' C. At the point of maximum solubility of the salt no molecular change occurred , or it would have impressed itself on the curve which represented the elasticity of the steam .
1879 .
] Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Nuclei .
that solid bodies , boiled up with the solution , are inactive ; and I have found them to be so when put into the hot or warm solution , and left till cold ; and that oils and other liquids , boiled or heated with the solution , become equally inactive .
Several observers , who have more or less recently worked on the subject before us , have not attended to this condition , and hence , obtaining negative results , have declared that the oils , \amp ; c. , have no nuclear action under any circumstances .
If , however , a nucleus from without be introduced into the cold solution , a nucleus that is capable of adhering to the salt and not to the water of the solution , a molecule of the anhydrous salt is thereby set free , and in the very act of separating , ten atoms of water enter into combination , and thus determine the solidification of the whole of the solution in the form of the normal salt.* If the nucleus fail to catch one of these saline molecules , as it were in the nascent state , but disperses through the solution , its effect is to lessen the adhesion between the water and the salt , and a portion of the seven-atom salt is liberated ( mostly at the bottom of the vessel , where the solution is richer in salt ) provided the temperature be not too high : this effect is also produced by cold alone .
If an essential oil , which acts as a nucleus in determining the formation of the normal salt , be submitted to distillation , the distillate reassumes its cohesive force , and when added to the solution , is no longer active , seeing that whether in the lenticular form , or dispersed in globules , it has a separate existence of its own , the lens and each minute globule being bound up in their own surface tension , which prevents them from coming into contact with the salt .
If , however , the drop of oil spread out into a film upon the surface of the solution , the cohesion is so far weakened that adhesion between it and the salt becomes possible , separation usually takes place , and large crystals of the normal salt mould themselves on the under surface of the film .
If such be the true explanation ?
it is clear that any other force which diminishes or destroys the cohesive force of the oil , must confer upon it the same nuclear property .
Consequently , a freshly distilled essential oil , mineral naphtha , \amp ; c. , which are inactive , become active by the addition of a little absolute alcohol , ether and similar liquids in which they are soluble .
The fixed oils which tend to become rancid through age are also active , and the stearine deposited by them is especially so .
Newly refined fixed oils , which are inactive , become active on the addition of a little alkali ; but the tendency of potash , soda , and ammonia is to * Lowel noticed that when the transparent seven-atom salt is removed from the solution , it becomes opaque and hot in consequence of the fixation of three additional atoms of water .
In such case the supersaturated mother liquor on the surface and entangled among the crystals , produces , in the absence of a nucleus , a crystal of the normal salt by evaporation , and this acts as a nucleus .
VOL. XXIX .
2 A 330 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Nuclei .
[ Nov. 20 , form soluble soaps with the oils , which mingle with the solution often without nuclear action .
Lime and magnesia are more manageable .
On mixing the oil with one of these , and adding a drop or two to the solution , then inclining the flask nearly horizontally , and rotating it slowly on its axis , these insoluble soaps adhere to the side and form smears , upon which masses of large crystals of the normal salt start into existence in a striking manner , and the solution immediately becomes solid , so that on restoring the flask to its erect position , a vertical wall appears , with a solid mass on one side and an apparently empty space on the other .
Some of the solid and semi-solid fats in their natural state , or as they leave the hands of the cook , are admirable nuclei .
Such are suet , dripping , fat of bacon and ham , lard , butter , and some others .
But in all cases a freshly cut surface acts most effectually , and a fat that sometimes does not act for hours if cut one way , will act instantly if cut at right angles to the former direction .
Lard contains a good deal of entangled water ; this should be driven off .
The lard when cold sometimes acts better when smeared on a clean glass rod than in a small lump .
The auction of solid porous nuclei , such as plaster of Paris , pumice , \amp ; c. , in determining the sudden solidification of these solutions admits of easy explanation .
When these bodies are moderately absorptive they act by separating water from the solution ; but when , by exposure to heat , their absorptive power is considerably increased , they become immediately saturated not with water , but with a portion of the solution itself , and hence there is no separation of salt .
When such an apparently inactive body is exposed to the open air , its absorptive power becomes somewhat diminished by access of moisture , and it is brought into a condition to absorb more water from the solution , instead of the solution itself .
In the experiments of Mr. Liversidge and others the porous bodies were thoroughly heated and dried before they were brought into contact with the solution , and this will sufficiently explain the negative results obtained by them in their carefully conducted experiments .
The action of nuclei on the supersaturated solutions of other salts that have engaged my attention , such as those of alum , zincic and magnesic sulphates , and one or two others , admits of similar explanations ; but there are peculiarities belonging to each which need not at present occupy the time of the Society .
The curious condition of supersaturation was first observed by Dr. Black , towards the end of the last century , and from that time to the present innumerable notes and memoirs have been written on its varied phenomena .
Some observers who have treated the subject most elaborately have adopted methods which , by the action of heat and the exclusion of air , have tended to promote the cohesive or adhesive force of 1879.J Definite Integrals involving Elliptic Functions .
331 the bodies examined by them , and obtaining only negative results , and always a certain result with a crystal of the salt , they have insisted that this is the only nucleus .
Others , again , have sought for an explanation in some catalytic or other mysterious force ; while a third set of observers have declared it to be a matter of uncertainty or hazard whether a foreign body acts as a nucleus or not .
In reviewing the subject and repeating my experiments in various ways , I see no reason for withdrawing from the theory which I had the honour of submitting to the Society eleven years ago , namely , that the action of nuclei is simply mechanical , and is capable of being expressed by the familiar word adhesion .
VIII .
" On Definite Integrals involving Elliptic Functions .
" By J. W. L. Glaisher , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received July 31 , 1879 .
S 1 .
The chief object of this paper is to apply to definite integrate involving elliptic functions certain special methods which have been employed for the evaluation of integrals of a similar kind involving circular functions .
S 2 .
One of the most elegant and direct investigations of the value of the integral \ log sin x dx\#151 ; ^Tr log ( ^ ) Jo is afforded by the product 2 7T sin \#151 ; sin n n sin O\#151 ; l)y= 2 n for , taking the logarithm of both sides of this equation , and writing 7i(log si n^+logsin2A/ . . .
+ log sin \ir)\#151 ; trlim .
" =0o 1 -\#151 ; i*-h)g2 .
The same principle also gives the value of the integral i log ( 1\#151 ; 2acosa ; +a2)daj ... ... ... ... .(1 ) , Jo which =0 or 2wlog a according as a \lt ; or \gt ; 1 , and it is easy to see in general that if . . .
0^a+^^=Yr(w)\gt ; j / tv lo\amp ; Yr(w ) tiHoo ) 1 log \lt ; t\gt ; ( x)dx=zl lim.w=O0 8 = 0-7-7\#151 ; A J\#171 ; \amp ; ' n Y'C00 ) 2 a 2 then n

