Experiments on Aneroid Barometers and their Discussion .
401 ifQ the male and female nuclei respectively .
Indications of the ( i * , segmentation spindle are also to be observed at this stage as staining threads running throughout both nuclei .
No definite citing fertilised nucleus is formed .
Phe spindle , which lies obliquely in the centre of the egg , is at ft multipolar in form , and while it is in this condition the chromo-*ies begin to split longitudinally , but can still be distinguished t ghly into two groups .
)my after the formation of four segmentation nuclei do these hrin to wander down to the base of the egg .
On its way down t h nucleus has a distinct sheath of cytoplasmic fibres , but when it robes the base these become replaced by fine cytoplasmic threads , rich run from the nucleus out into the general cytoplasm .
These ier-formed cytoplasmic threads seem to be connected with the for-ution of cell walls around the nuclei .
The number of chromosomes in the egg nucleus was determined cl counting them in the division which cuts off the ventral canal cl , and was found to be twelve .
The same number was also to be find in the nuclei of the cells of the prothallial tissue and of the illen mother cells .
The chromosomes of the first segmentation t.ndle , on the one occasion on which they could be counted , were tftctly twenty-four in number .
The chromosomes were also counted ]several types of sporophytic tissue ; at least twenty-one ebromo-imes could always be observed ; presumably twenty-four are always esent .
\gt ; No centrospheres or centrosomes were to be seen in connection iher with fertilisation or with any of the related processes .
Experiments on Aneroid Barometers at Kew Observatory and their Discussion .
" By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent .
Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1898 .
'ommunicated by the Author at the request of the Kew Observatory Committee .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper deals with two species of data .
The first consists of articulars derived from the records at Kew Observatory as to errors observed in about 300 aneroid barometers .
These had been xbjected to the ordinary Kew test , which consists in lowering the ressure to which the aneroid is exposed inch by inch to the lowest oint at which verification is desired , and raising the pressure in a ?
vresponding way to its original value .
Readings are taken at I ach inch of pressure during both the fall and the recovery , and a able of corrections is obtained by reference to the corresponding eadings of a mercury gauge .
402 Experiments on Aneroid Barometers and their Discussion The second group of data are the results of special experimes made at Kew Observatory during the last three years .
These w e intended to link together the phenomena exhibited in the Hv verifications , and to further investigate various points bearing on ie usefulness of the certificate hitherto issued to aneroids .
The aneroid is an instrument exhibiting elastic after-effect i. quently in a conspicuous way .
When pressure is lowered and tin maintained constant , the aneroid 's reading continues to fall , and wk pressure is restored to its original value , the aneroid reads at fit lower than it did originally , but exhibits a gradual tendency to recov- .
These general facts have of course been long known .
The mit characteristic features were in fact discussed 30 years ago ' ?
Dr. Balfour Stewart , then superintendent of Kew Observatory , w. dealt with a considerable mass of experimental material .
They ha also been the subject of a comparatively recent pamphlet by 1 , Edward Wbymper , who gives the results of a number of interest^ long period experiments .
The present paper is partly experimental and partly theoretic .
It treats of how the differences between the readings with pressu descending and ascending in a normal pressure cycle , such as tl Kew test , vary throughout the range , and how the sum of the differences varies from one range to another.* It investigates ho the error , as pressure is reduced , varies with the rate of fall of pressu ( when uniform ) , how the fall of reading at a low stationary pressu increases with the time , depends on the pressure , and varies with tl rate of the previous fall of pressure , and how the recovery after pressure cycle , progresses with the time , and is modified by the natu : of the previous pressure changes .
The influence of subsidiai stoppages during the fall or rise of pressure is investigated , an experiments are discussed showing the influence of temperature on tb various phenomena .
Some of the aneroids employed for the special experiments havinr been under observation for nearly three years , the opportunity i taken of considering the secular change of zero , and also changes l the elastic and the after-effect properties .
Algebraic and exponential formulae are obtained by trial for sucl phenomena as the variation of the differences of the descending ant ascending readings throughout a pressure cycle , the dependence o the sum of such differences on the range , the fall of reading at thf lowest pressure and the final recovery .
A theory , to some extent empirical , is built up , leading to mathematical results , depending oi only three arbitrary constants , for the behaviour of an aneroid in th\lt ; ordinary Kew test over any range .
One of these constants varies with the aneroid , but is determined by the observed value of such a quantity as the sum of the differences of the descending and ascending On the Heat dissipated by Platinum at High Temperatures .
403 yidings over any convenient range .
The other two constants depend , the length of the stoppage at the lowest point of the range , and the ration between the rates of the lowering and the recovery of pressure , 'e results calculated in this way show a very satisfactory agreement .\sh the Blew verifications .
The investigation being principally intended to increase the useful-js of the existing Kew test , and to show where it is most in need ( amplification or amendment , attention is primarily given to the tfectsof aneroids .
It is hoped that the increased knowledge of these sfects will enable rules to be framed for the rejection of aneroids , and tit in this way it will be made worth while for makers to improve 18 instrument .
The large differences brought to light between ( ferent aneroids , show that the means of markedly raising the average 3 already at the makers ' disposal if they choose to utilise their owledge .
The present enquiry also shows clearly how the effects tentative improvements may best be ascertained .
The method of ilising aneroids to the best advantage in determining mountain ights is not formally considered , but a variety of the results should vertheless be found of immediate service by any traveller of intel-ence who has this object in view .
On the Heat dissipated by a Platinum Surface at High Temperatures .
" By J. E. Petavel , 1851 Exhibition Scholar .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received May 19 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of the paper refers to the emissivity of a bright atinum surface in air and in other gases .
The temperature measurements are based on the researches of illendar and Griffiths , confirmed by the recent determinations of eycock and Neville .
To check the calibration of the thermometers higher temperatures , the melting point of palladium was used .
A nnber of the curves are extended to 1779 ' C. by a direct measure-ent of the emissivity of platinum and palladium at their melting tints .
The platinum wire , which served at the same time as radiator and termometer , was 0T12 cm .
in diameter .
It was placed in the axis !
a vertical glass cylinder , which formed the enclosure .
The effects produced by a change in the size , shape , material , and mperature of the enclosure and in the position and diameter of the ire are also studied .
The temperature is expressed in degrees centigrade , and the emis-vity in C.G.S. units .

