A paper was read , entitled , " An Experimental Investigation of the Phenomena of Endosmose and Exosmose .
" By William Ritchie , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institu ?
tion of Great Britain .
M. Porret had , in the year 1816 , announced the discovery , that if a vessel containing water be divided into two compartments by a dia ?
phragm of bladder , and placed in the voltaic circuit , the water would rise on the negative side above its level in the positive compartment .
M. Dutrochet discovered , that if alcohol be placed in one of the cham ?
bers , and water in the other , without employing the voltaic battery , the water will percolate through the bladder , and the fluid will rise in the chamber containing the alcohol : an action to which he gave the names of Endosmose and Exosmose , according to its direction with regard to the side of the membrane considered ; comparing its two sides to those of a Leyden jar in opposite electrical states .
This electrical theory has been combated by M. Poisson : but the true expla ?
nation of this singular phenomenon does not appear to have been yet given .
The experiments of the author , of which an account is given in this paper , were made with a glass tube , about an inch in diameter , one end being drawn out into a slender tube of the interior diameter of one eighth of an inch , and having a piece of bladder tied over the other end .
When this Endosmometer , as it has been called , is by means of a small funnel introduced into the narrow end filled with alcohol , and immersed in water , the water penetrates through the blad ?
der , and the spirit rises rapidly in the narrow stem .
The author found on trial that this action was apparently not affected by a pow ?
erful current of voltaic electricity passed through the bladder , by in ?
troducing positive and negative wires on both sides of it .
On substituting a strong solution of sulphate of zinc for the alcohol , the same negative result was obtained .
The author considers the action of the animal membrane to be the consequence of its strong attraction for water , an attraction to which it owes its hygrometric properties : while , on the other hand , the membrane has no attraction for alcohol , which has itself a powerful attraction for water .
The water , therefore , finds its way easily through the membrane , and uniting with the alcohol , is carried off by it , and diffused through the liquid , making room for the other portions that successively come over .
Whalebone and quills have similar hygro ?
metric properties , and may be substituted for membranes with the same effect .
All substances readily soluble in water give rise to the phenomena of endosmose , on the same principle as alcohol , such as gum , sugar , and salts .
The phenomenon bears a striking resem ?
blance to the rise of the sap in the capillary vessels of plants , both being probably dependent on the same principle - , the filamentous texture of the roots performing the function of the membrane , and the contained sap that of the attractive fluid - , by the agency of which that external moisture of the earth is imbibed and raised into the interior of the plant .

