A Description of a Microscopic Doublet .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. c. .
Read November 27,1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 9 .
] The author , considering that in all microscopes distinct vision is impeded instead of being assisted by whatever light may be thrown upon the object beyond what is fully commanded by the object-glass , obviates this evil by collecting the admitted light to a focus in the same plane as the object to be examined .
For this purpose he employs a plane mirror to direct the light , and a plano-convex lens to collect it , the plane side of the lens being towards the object to be illuminated .
Availing himself of the property possessed by that form of eye-piece for astronomical telescopes , called the Huygenian , of correcting both chromatic and spherical aberration , the author conceived that by applying to a microscope the same combination reversed , he might obtain similar advantages .
The construction he employs resembles two thiinbles , fitted one within the other by screwing , and with a perforation at the extremity of each .
In these perforations are fixed two suitable plano-convex lenses , which may thus have their axes easily brought into the same line by means of their plane surfaces ; wnhile their distance from each other may be adjusted by screwing , so as to produce the best effect of which they are capable .
The best relative proportion of the foci of the two lenses , appears , from the trials made by the author , to be that of three to one .
The distance between their plane surfaces should , in general , be about 1-4 of the shorter focus , but should be varied by trial , till the utmost possible degree of distinctness has been attained .
The lenses must be fixed in their cells with their plane sides next to the object to be viewed .
The exterior cell of the compound magnifier should be formed with a flanch , so that it may rest upon the piece that receives it .
The plano-convex lens , by which the object is illuminated , is enclosed in a tube about six inches long , blackened ian the inside , and having a circular perforation below of about three tenths of an inch in diameter , for limiting the lights reflected from the plane mirror .
The centre of this aperture must be in the common axis of the lenses ; and the image of the perforation formed by the large lens , must be brought , by proper adjustment of the distance of that lens , into the same plane as the object to be examined .
Vith a microscope so constructed , the author has seen the finest strive and serratures upon the scales of the Lepisma and Podura , and the scales upon a Gnat 's wing , with a degree of delicate perspicuity not attainable with any other microscope he has tried .
In consequence of the plane surface of the lens being next to the object viewed , the microscope of Dr. Wollaston possesses the important advantage of having its action undisturbed by the contact of a fluid under examination .

