PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
Section A.\#151 ; Mathematical and Physical Sciences .
The Chemical Physics involved in the Precipitation of Free Carbon from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
By W. H. Hatfield , B. Met .
( Sheffield University ) .
( Communicated by Prof. W. M. Hicks , F.R.S. Received October 7 , \#151 ; Read November 10 , 1910 .
) [ Plates 1\#151 ; 5 .
] As a result of recent research* it is held that the iron-carbon alloys must be considered as an iron-iron carbide system as indicated in the accompanying diagram ; the author is satisfied that the double diagram based on the assumption of a metastable and a stable equilibrium is inaccurate , since , in the liquid or the solid state , that carbon which is in solution is contained in solution as carbide .
The experiments to be described afford evidence that the carbide must separate out from the solution before free carbon can appear , and that it is only the structurally free carbide that can dissociate ; free carbon will not separate from the solid solution .
The influence of silicon , sulphur , and manganese upon the precipitation are investigated , with the following results :\#151 ; 1 .
The silicon ( if it be the only foreign element present ) is not uniformly distributed through the material .
The carbide , whilst not containing so much as the matrix , has present a percentage increasing with the silicon content of the alloy .
2 .
The manganese is largely found in the carbide to the exclusion of the silicon .
* Goerens , ' Metallurgies 1906 , vol. iii ; 1907 , vol. iv . !
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; A. 1\gt ; 2 Mr. W. H. Hatfield .
Precipitation of Free Carbon [ Oct. 7 , 3 .
The sulphur appears to cause the exclusion of the silicon from the carbide , but the methods employed failed to reveal the presence of any quantity of sulphur in that constituent .
OF EUTE :tic FREEZING RESO LUTION OF HAR DENITE INTO PE 0 0*50 10 1-5 2-0 2-5 30 3 5 4-0 45 % OF CARBON , \#151 ; = accepted lines . . . . .
= readings obtained by Carpenter and Keeling which suggest other lines .
4 .
The heat treatment experiments indicate that the presence of these elements , by modifying the composition of the carbide , renders it more or less difficult to dissociate at a given temperate .
Further , by altering the composition of the alloy , the solubility of the carbide in the austenite was modified and therefore more or less free carbide was subjected to the conditions of dissociation .
It is also shown that the space occupied by , and the structure of , the free " annealing " carbon nodules are determined by the size and structure of the free carbide from which they are produced .
The precipitation of free carbon during cementation is discussed and the phenomenon of " black " steel is considered in the light of the observations made during the research .
The Free Carbon as Found in the Iron-Carbon Alloys .
The free carbon observed in the alloys of iron and carbon is always one of the two varieties , graphite or annealing carbon .
1910 .
] from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
Graphite is formed immediately after the solidification of the eutectic , and its distinctive form is most probably due to the influence of the primary crystallization .
Obviously upon an examination of the iron-carbon freezing diagram it will be seen that the graphite could not be produced previous to the freezing of the eutectic , otherwise it would not be found evenly distributed through the mass , but would have risen by its own specific gravity to the surface .
Further , as the eutectic is proved to consist of 4*3 per cent , of carbon in combination , it will be necessary for the eutectic to separate into carbide and austenite , before the carbide can dissociate and thus give birth to the free carbon .
At the point of solidification , the solubility of the iron for the carbon is that of the eutectic composition , 4*3 per cent. , but the change from the liquid to solid state reduces the solubility to such an extent that the separation of the superfluous carbide causes , the distinct evolution of heat which is known to take place at about 1137 ' C. In irons such as the highly siliceous ones , it is difficult to conceive* how the carbide in the finely divided state , in which it exists immediately after this separation , can live through the immediately subsequent conditions .
The following corroborative evidence should be considered : Two bars { 2 " x 1 " x 12 " ) were cast of the following composition :\#151 ; C ... ... ... ... ... .
3*20 per cent. S ... ... ... ... ... ... .
: ... 0*02 per cent. Si ... ... ... ... . .
1T0 " P ... ... ... ... ... .
0*20 " Mn ... ... ... ... ... .
0'41 per cent. The first , cast with the metal at about 180 ' C. higher temperature than the other , in fracture was mottled , and the second was perfectly grey .
The unetched microstructure of the grey bar is shown in fig. 1 , Plate 1 , and to .one accustomed to white iron structures it shows that the primary cementite has decomposed in situ .
Fig. 2 , Plate 1 , shows the structure when etched , and indicates that it is only the structurally free carbide that has dissociated .
The microstructure of the mottled bar , fig. 3 , Plate 1 , indicates that the precipitation commences at several centres , and if continued spreads through the mass .
In fig. 4 , Plate 1 , the unetched structures of the free carbon areas are illustrated .
It will be seen that the free carbon exactly conforms in structural position with that held by the cementite .
As previously shown by the author)- the initial casting temperature materially influences the dissociation of the carbide .
In these instances the free carbon would unquestionably be classed as graphite , and the microstructures throw light upon the manner of the birth * Heyn and Bauer , ' Stahl und Eisen , ' vol. 27 , 1565\#151 ; 71 and 1621\#151 ; 25 .
t Hatfield , 'Iron and Steel Institute Journal,5 1906 , vol. i. B 2 4 Mr. W. H. Hatfield .
Precipitation of Free Carbon [ Oct. 7 , of graphite .
Fig. 26 , Plate 4 , shows the typical graphitic iron , which results from prolonged cooling of these bars .
Annealing carbon differs little from graphite except in that the temperature at which it is precipitated being low the amorphous form is retained .
The composition of the iron , the size and structure of the cementite or free carbide , and the temperature at which the carbide dissociates , are , as will be shown , the determining factors of the size and character of the annealing carbon .
As an instance of the influence of the size of the free carbide upon the size of annealing carbon the results of the following experiment are given .
Two test bars of white cast iron of the .
following composition were made:\#151 ; Si ... ... ... ... ... .
0*70 per cent. S ... ... ... ... ... . .
004 per cent. Mn ... ... ... ... ... . .
0*80 " P ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-11 " C ... ... ... ... ... ... 3*40 per cent. One bar A was allowed to cool normally , its microstructure is shown in fig. 5 , Plate 1 .
The other bar B was quenched when it had cooled to 1000 ' C. , and the structure of this one will be seen in fig. 7 , Plate 1 .
It will be noticed that whereas in the naturally cooled bar the cementite is in large thick membranes , in the quenched one the structure is very different .
The matrix seen in the micrograph of B actually contains considerably more carbon in solution than is present in the pearlite of A. In fig. 25 , Plate 4 , is seen the microstructure of a globule of this iron when poured molten into a mass of cold water ; it illustrates the comparative structure of iron approximating to the eutectic composition shortly after solidification .
Samples A and B were heated to a temperature of 1050 ' C. , maintained there for three-quarters of an hour , and quenched at a temperature of 1030 ' C. Fig. 6 , Plate 1 , illustrates the microstructure of the bar A , and if the structure is compared with its condition before this heat treatment it would appear that the annealing carbon results from the dissociation of the cementite membranes of carbide observed before the treatment .
The heat treated bar B presented a 'structure shown in fig. 8 , Plate 1 .
The whole of the small cementite had decomposed , with the result that this bar contains no cementite , but only small annealing carbon nodules in martensitic austenite , as seen when examined under a high power .
This experiment indicates that the size of the original cementite is certainly an influence in determining the size of annealing carbon , and it might be well at this point to refer to a very interesting paper by Mr. Levy.* * Levy , 4 Journal Iron and Steel Institute , ' 1908 , vol. 2 .
from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
His theory that it is necessary for the carbide to ball up before it can dissociate would appear to be disproved .
The author has made the statement that the " annealing carbon " sometimes appears to be merely dissociated carbide , i.c. a mixture of finely divided iron and carbon occupying the position of the original cementite .
He would refer to two of his micrographs illustrating this phase , fig. 27 , Plate 4 .
Here it will be seen that in a sample of white cast iron , which was undergoing heat treatment at the comparatively low temperature of 835 ' to 840 ' C. , the cementite of a whole area of the section decomposed in situ .
The micrograph of the drastically heat-treated blister-steel , fig. 34 , Plate 5 , is an example of the annealing carbon occupying a similar position and of a similar size to the original cementite .
On further heat treatment such mixtures of free carbon and iron undergo a change , the carbon segregating , and the precipitated iron entering structurally into the mass .
As an instance of this , fig. 11 , Plate 2 , represents the microstructure of a bar of heat treated white iron quenched at about 860 ' O If this temperature be maintained for a considerable time after the precipitation of the annealing carbon the structure is as shown in fig. 12 , Plate 2 .
Influence of Varying Composition upon the of the Structurally Free Carbide .
The presence of silicon , sulphur , and manganese is well known to influence the precipitation of annealing carbon , and the author therefore decided to determine the manner in wdiicli this influence was brought to bear .
Four irons of varying composition were chosen for experiment and were of the following analysis :\#151 ; C. Cr .
Si .
Mn .
S. P. A 3*62 nil 1 *20 0*18 o-oii 0-041 B 3 2 ?
f 0-81 0*14 o-oio 0*04 C 3 4 n 0*85 2-66 0-012 0*041 D 3*16 V 0-97 0*04 0-45 0-04 The micrographs of these four materials are shown in Plate 3 , figs. 13 , 14 , 15 , and 16 , and are seen to consist as usual of cementite carbide ( FegC ) and pearlite .
From bars hardened at 740 ' C. quantities of the respective carbides were obtained .
On analysis , they were found to be of the following composition :\#151 ; 6 Mr. W. H. Hatfield .
Precipitation of Free Carbon [ Oct. 79 Bar .
Si .
Mn .
C. A per cent. 1-09 0-6L 0*15 0*37 per cent. 0*19 0*16 3*74 traces per cent. 6*79 6*40 7-20 6*60 B C D The method , though crude , gave interesting results .
It may be mentioned that the whole of the silicon , apart from that found in the carbide , was found in the solution , it having perfectly entered into solution in the cold dilute hydrochloric acid .
The exposure of the material to the acid was of 48 hours ' duration in each case- .
When the bars in the unhardened condition were decomposed in the same manner the analysis of the residues gave vastly different results , which were as follows :\#151 ; Bar .
Si .
Mn .
A per cent. 2*15 101 1 *45 0*49 per cent. 0*28 0*19 3-62 traces B C I ) The silicon was therefore not dissolved by the HC1 as in the former instances .
This may be explained after careful consideration of the physical condition under which the " silicide " exists in such samples .
Since , however , the pearlite exists as hardenite at the temperatures now being discussed , the problem may , for the present , be dismissed .
The author would claim the following deductions from these experiments :\#151 ; 1 .
That the silicon is not uniformly distributed through the material , but that the carbide , whilst not containing as much silicon as the matrix , contains an appreciable quantity , corresponding to some extent to the total percentage .
2 .
That in the case of sample C the manganese is found largely in combination in the carbide , to the exclusion of the silicon .
3 .
In the case of the high sulphur iron the silicon is abnormally low in the carbide , and although the sulphur is not found in it , it would be deduced that it is responsible for the comparative absence of the silicon .
The ease with which sulphur compounds are decomposed by even dilute hydrochloric acid would lead one to believe that though it is not found in the carbide it from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
does not follow that some of it was not there originally .
The author is aware , however , that the sulphur prints give contrary evidence .
Influence of Composition upon Precipitation of Annealing Carbon White Iron .
Charpy and Grenet publish some interesting figures upon the influence of silicon on the precipitation of annealing carbon in their paper on " The Equilibrium of the Iron and Carbon System."* Irons of varying composition were poured into water , thus obtaining irons up to very high silicon content in the white state .
Although Charpy and Grenet state that the samples all had the normal white iron structure , the free carbide in their samples would be smaller and in less quantity than in a normal casting and the matrix much higher in carbon , facts which must be taken into account in comparing the two series of results .
The author 's micrographs , figs. 5 and 7 , Plate 1 , and fig. 25 , Plate 4 , illustrate the condition and quantity of carbide likely to have been present in these samples , representing as they do the structures of normal white iron , white iron quenched from 1000 ' C. and from the molten state respectively .
With abnormal silicon , however , this would be the only way to entrap the carbon in the combined state .
The author 's heat treatments were made in a Clinch-Jones muffle , and this ensured that the material , by being heated in a reducing atmosphere of unignited gas , was not decarburized .
Pars A , B , C , and I ) , Plate 2 , figs. 13 , 14 , 15 , and 16 , recently described , were placed in the muffle standing at 920 ' C. , and were maintained at this temperature for one hour and then carefully quenched in iced brine .
After quenching , microsections were taken from these bars and etched .
The results are to be found in Plate 3 , figs. 17 , 18 , 19 , and 20 .
In each case it will be seen that the cementite is beginning to disappear .
This is explained by the increasing solvent action of the matrix for carbide , owing to the rise in temperature to 920 ' C. In the case of A it is clear that the cementite had to an extent redissolved in the matrix , but that some of the remaining cementite had decomposed .
In the case of B considerable areas of cementite have redissolved in the matrix , whilst several nodules of annealing carbon are seen .
In the case of C no annealing carbon is observed , and further the cementite seems much corroded , having obviously been to a considerable extent dissolved in the matrix .
In the case of D similar changes have taken place in the structure .
* 'Bulletin de la Societe d'Encouragement pour l'lndustrie Nationale/ vol. 10 pp. 399\#151 ; 407 .
8 Mr. W. H. Hatfield .
Precipitation of Free Carbon [ Oct. 7 , In the second series samples of the same composition were maintained for one hour at 1050 ' C. and quenched from that temperature .
Plate 3 , figs. 21 , 22 , 23 , and 24 , illustrates the structures obtained .
In the case of A all the cementite has disappeared .
Some is in solution in the austenite and the remainder is dissociated into iron and carbon .
Micrograph fig. 21 illustrates the structure .
In the case of B all the cementite has disappeared .
It is either in solution in the austenite or dissociated into iron and carbon .
Micrograph fig. 22 illustrates this .
The carbon wTould appear to be further segregated , but since both samples were treated alike the author is unable to explain this .
This variation , however , may be traced to the form and size of the original cementite .
In the case of C the cementite is partly in solution , partly decomposed , and the annealing carbon occurs in a matrix of austenite in which the martensitic structure is well developed .
Only traces of undissociated carbide remain .
Considering the high percentage of manganese in this sample C , the precipitation is interesting .
In the case of D , much undissociated cementite and some peculiarly well-rounded nodules of annealing carbon appear in the matrix .
The following table gives the amount of free carbon found in these samples after quenching from 1050 ' C.:\#151 ; Sample .
After treatment .
Combined carbon .
Free carbon .
Carbon in austenite .
per cent. per cent. per cent. A 1 *55 2*07 1 '55 B 1 71 1 *49 1 71 C 2 *26 1 -12 2*26 1 ) 2 *46 0 70 ?
These experiments prove that the presence of the silicon in the carbide * renders it less stable ; that manganese and sulphur render the carbide more stable , but that at 1050 ' C. even 3*00 per cent , of manganese , or 045 per cent , of sulphur , fail to render the carbide stable .
The Precipitation of Annealing Carbon in Blister Steel .
The introduction of carbon into iron by cementation is of great interest .
It will be found that Percy , in his book , discusses the subject to date , and the subsequent microscopical researches of Sorby and Arnold developed considerably our knowledge of the process .
1910 .
] from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
It is proposed , before discussing the precipitation of free carbon , first to consider the chemical physics of the process .
With regard to the percentage of carbon it is possible to introduce , Saniter introduced 2*9 per cent. , whilst Charpy , confirming Marguerite 's observations , introduced 6*72 per cent , by this process , Charpy using KCN and a temperature 650 ' C. In cementing bars of commercial sizes , it is impossible by means of charcoal to introduce more than an average percentage of 1*8 to 1*9 of carbon at the temperatures employed .
It would seem from present experimental data to hand that iron carbide ( Fe3C ) is synthetically produced at low temperatures when iron and carbon or some of its compounds are in contact , and it will be found , on examining the experimental data of the recorded instances of high percentages of carburizing , that they have all been performed on finely-divided iron , very fine wire , or drillings .
If attempt is made to cement bar iron , say 3 " x a very different set of conditions will be found ; the iron and carbon in contact produce the carbide , but it is not until the temperatures at which diffusion* takes place are reached that the carburization can penetrate to the interior .
Before the carbon can diffuse , the carbide must be in solution in the iron , and hence the degree to which the interior can be carburized is controlled by the solubility of the carbide .
This solubility rises with the temperature , but at the temperatures normally employed , it seems , does not exceed 1*60 per cent , of carbon , even if Benedick 's theory , elaborated by Iiowe , f is taken into consideration .
Such being the chemical physics involved in the cementation process , it is interesting to consider their bearing upon the precipitation of " annealing carbon " during such heat treatments .
Materials of the following composition were put through a somewhat drastic heat treatment .
No. 1 is " washed iron , " and contains 3*30 per cent , of carbon ; the other four are high-class crucible steels of gradually increasing carbon content .
The complete analyses were as follows :\#151 ; No. 1 Carbon .
Manganese .
Silicon .
Sulphur .
Phosphorus .
1 3 *30 Trace 0*074 0*01 0*01 2 0*85 0*26 0*093 0*01 0*01 3 1 -05 , 0*31 0*084 0*01 0*01 4 1 -10 0*27 0*102 0*01 0*01 5 1 *20 0*31 0*084 0*01 0*01 The bars were cemented with charcoal , seven days being required to attain the necessary heat of 950 ' to 1000 ' C. ; they were then maintained between * Arnold and McWilliam , ' J. Iron and Steel Institute , ' 1899 , vol. i. t ' American Institution of Mining Engineers ' Journal , ' 1908 .
10 Mr. W. H. Hatfield .
Precipitation of Free Carbon [ Oct. 7 y these temperatures for a period of five days , after which they slowly cooled during a further period of five days .
Before the heat treatment , all the carbon in each of the bars was in the combined state ; the analyses after the treatment are of considerable interest , and are given in the next table :\#151 ; No. Total carbon .
Annealing carbon .
Combined carbon .
Gain in carbon .
1 3*30 3 75 0*15 Nil 2 1 *54 0*10 1 *44 0 69 3 1 *46 0*26 1 *20 0*41 4 1 *50 0*88 0*62 0*40 5 1*60 1 *00 0*60 0*40 It will thus be seen that in this instance a precipitation of free carbon was obtained , and it will be observed that the higher the initial carbon percentage the higher the free carbon .
Before discussing further this set of results , the author considers it better to present another set of experiments which were made in collaboration with Mr. Albert Senior .
Bars of pure Swedish wrought iron , were normally cemented five times at a temperature of 1050 ' to 1100 ' 0 .
, at which maximum temperature *they were maintained in each case for about 12 days .
The carbon percentages thus introduced are recorded in the following table:\#151 ; Total carbon .
Combined carbon .
Annealing carbon .
After first cementation 1 *28 1 *28 Nil , , second , , 1 *43 1-43 " third " 1 *50 1 *16 0*34 .
, fourth .
, 1 *49 0*53 0*96 " fifth " 1 *68 0*71 0*95 It will be seen that it was ' not until the third drastic heating that any free carbon in this instance appeared , but that the fourth heat treatment precipitated 0*96 per cent , of it .
In the earlier experiment , however , a precipitation was obtained in a single cementation at 950 ' to 1000 ' C. in bars having after exposure to the temperature 1*50 to 1*60 per cent , carbon .
In Plate 4 , fig. 28 , will be seen the microstructure of No. 1 of the first series ; it will be seen to consist of a matrix of laminated pearlite in which are embedded the annealing carbon nodules in ferrite envelopes .
In figs. 29 to 32 , Plate 4 , will be seen the structures of the other four bars .
Bar 2 showed a typical cemented bar structure of cementite and pearlite , in Bar 3 here and there the cementite had decomposed with resulting 1910 .
] from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
annealing carbon as seen in the micrograph , whilst in Bars 4 and 5 all the carbon of supersaturation , i.e. all the free massive carbide , has been dissociated into free carbon and iron .
Turning now to the second series of experiments , on Plate 5 , fig. 33 , will be found an illustration of their microstructure after the first cementation ; in this instance the cementite of the pearlite has been balled up ; after the second cementation the structure was much the same .
On examination of the bars after the third heat treatment the massive cementite had broken down apparently in situ , see fig. 34 .
After the fifth cementation , it was found that all the carbon of supersaturation had been precipitated and that the structure , as shown in fig. 35 , Plate 5 , merely presented a pearlite matrix in which the annealing carbon appeared in the usual manner enveloped in ferrite .
In the first set of experiments free carbon was precipitated , and roughly in proportion to the carbon of supersaturation present in the original bar .
It would therefore appear that the original cementite was in some manner the cause of the action ; as to what this action was is not clear , as , each bar having absorbed more carbon , it would appear that this free cementite must for the most part have been redissolved in the " austenite .
" Owing to the comparatively low temperature , however , it is most ' likely that some outstanding islands of carbide would be subjected to the temperature of the treatment .
As shown earlier , the carbide of iron is very unstable when temperatures approximating to 1000 ' C. are reached , and hence it is likely would thus dissociate .
The second series support this theory , because , on heating up to 1050 ' to 1100 ' C. , a further 100 ' C. , no precipitation was obtained until the third heating , and then it would only appear to consist of a local breaking down of the massive cementite , as shown in fig. 34 , Plate 5 .
The increase in temperature would tend to prevent the cementite remaining undissolved in the " austenite , " owing to the increased solubility of the carbide with this rising temperature .
The Precipitation of Annealing Carbon in Ordinary Steels .
It is now proposed to discuss the problem of the black steels of commerce in the light of experiments previously recorded .
Dr. Arnold and Prof. McWilliam , in their paper on the " Thermal Transformations of Carbon Steel , " record some interesting data and also an equally interesting explanation .
They point out that it is only in steels which are supersaturated that the precipitation is likely to be observed .
This the author confirms , as he has never met the phenomenon except in steels which normally present a microstructure in which free cementite occurs .
12 Mr. W. H. Hatfield .
Precipitation of Free Carbon [ Oct. 7 , The author found that when the annealing carbon was produced by simple heat treatment a formation of microstructure similar to fig. 35 , Plate 5 , was obtained , and such is the general appearance of annealing carbon when produced in this manner .
If free carbon be produced by working and rolling at low temperatures the .author finds that a very different microstructure is presented .
In figs. 9 and 10 , Plate 2 , will be seen the microstructures of such a bar ; fig. 9 represents the structure of the normal portion of the bar ; fig. 10 illustrates the form which the free carbon takes. .
The author 's theory is , that in such an instance the cementite membranes as such have decomposed and then drawn in and decomposed the cementite produced by resolution of the pearlite .
Intense pressure and friction reasonably might be expected to .commence such an action , which , once commenced , might run some distance through the material , thus accounting for this dissociation of the carbide .
With regard to the hypothesis put forth by Arnold and McWilliam* as to the chemical physics involved in the precipitation during the annealing * process , the author with deference to those workers would presume to take some exception .
They state that " during the slow cooling from 1000 ' C. the dissolved cementite completely fell out at about 900 ' C. , and from this temperature downwards gradually segregated into nodular masses .
Afte the A.R. 12 3 change point , the pearlite gradually became laminated .
Then , acting over a certain radius of molecular attraction , the A or cementite carbide drew in about half the B or pearlite carbide , thus augmenting its own mass , and leaving round it a large mass of crystalline ferrite , the outer boundaries of which mark the radius of action through which the nodules of cementite asserted their attraction on the striae of B carbide in the laminated pearlite .
Then , for some reasons which the authors cannot specify , the whole of the segregated masses of FesC decomposed into amorphous carbon and iron , the latter augmenting the crystalline ferrite surrounding the free carbon masses .
" In the light of the author 's work already recorded , he would suggest that , in the instance to which reference has just been made , the whole of the cementite would possibly not be in solution at the high temperatures .
As previously suggested , any structurally free carbide , on exposure to the temperature of 1000 ' C. for such a period , would tend to dissociate , and , as during the slow cooling the cementite gradually precipitated , it would by nucleus action be drawn into the regions of chemical activity , and be progressively decomposed .
The fact that the size , shape and position of the subsequent " annealing " carbon bear no relation to the similar features of * ' Journal Iron and Steel Institute , ' 1905 .
w ^-\gt ; 1 % . .
* $ ?
\#166 ; ^ *v , * ?
; X*'\ Vv\gt ; \lt ; *X % \amp ; S m ss v~4 ; ^k*S . ?
t# S*\#171 ; S 0\amp ; T-5S *.*\lt ; *\lt ; HN'3- X52 dias .
Etched HNO3 .
HNQ3- X52 dias .
Etched HNO3 .
1910 .
] from the Alloys of the Iron-Carbon System .
the cementite in such a steel in the normal cementite-pearlite condition supports this view .
That the whole of the carbide decomposes in the region of A.R. 1 2 3 , as suggested by Arnold and McWilliam , the author considers to be unlikely , since , unless the action has begun at high temperatures , his experiments prove the stability of iron carbide ( Fe3C ) at such a low temperature under a simple heat treatment .
It would thus seem that there is always a possibility of the production of black steel when free cementite is present , and that only by the addition to the steels of elements which will produce a stable carbide can the difficulty be overcome .
In the normal iron-carbon steels of commerce if the annealing or working is not conducted at a temperature at which the cementite is dissolved in the austenite there is always a danger of this phenomenon .
The author would like before closing to thank Dr. W. M. Hicks for the very kind interest he has taken in the research , and also to associate with it the names of Mr. J. F. Crowley and Prof. A. McWilliam , who have also wherever possible rendered valuable assistance to him in the prosecution of his research .

