76 Influence of Temperature of liquid Air on to be either rendered easier or impeded when the components were applied by alternating right and left stimuli as compared with the method of applying them by coincident right and left stimuli .
" On the Influence of the Prolonged Action of the Temperature of Liquid Air on Micro-organisms , and on the Effect of Mechanical Trituration at the Temperature of Liquid Air on Photogenic Bacteria .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.I ) .
Communicated by Professor James Dewar , F.R.S. Received August 2 , 1902 .
In previous communications it was shown that an exposure for twenty hours and for a period of seven days to the temperature of liquid air ( about - 190 ' C. ) had no effect on the vitality of microorganisms , whilst an exposure of ten hours to a temperature as low as that of liquid hydrogen ( about - 252 ' C. ) was likewise without an appreciable effect.* Further experiments have since been made in which the influence of the prolonged action of the temperature of liquid air on organisms was tested for a period of six months .
The bacteria employed were non-sporing forms , viz. , B. typhosus , B. coli communis , and Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , along with a Sac-char omyces .
The bacteria were directly immersed in the liquid air , either on cotton-wool swabs enclosed in a perforated metal case , or on small loops of platinum wire .
The yeast was washed and pressed , then wrapped up in rice paper , and directly exposed .
Samples were removed and tested at various intervals up to six months .
In no case could any impairment of the vitality of the organisms be detected .
The fresh growths obtained were normal in every respect , and the functional activities of the organisms were unaffected .
The typhoid bacillus retained its pathogenic properties , and responded typically to the agglutination test ; the colon bacillus exhibited its normal properties ; the Staphylococcus aureus produced pigment on solid and an active hsemolysin in fluid media , whilst the yeast exhibited its fermentative power unimpaired .
The above experiments show that a prolonged exposure of six months to a temperature of about - 190 ' C. has no appreciable effect on the vitality of micro-organisms .
To judge by the results , there appeared no reason to doubt that the experiment might have been successfully prolonged for a still longer period .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February 1 , 1900 ; April 5,1900 ; May 31,1900 .
An Intracellular Toxin of the Typhoid Bacillus .
77 The ordinary manifestations of life cease at zero , but at - 190 ' C. we have reason to suppose that intracellular metabolism must in addition practically cease\#151 ; as a result of the withdrawal of two of its cardinal physical conditions , viz. , heat and moisture .
It is difficult to form a conception of living matter under this new condition , which is neither life nor death , or to select a term which will accurately describe it .
In previous experiments it was found that the photogenic bacteria preserved their normal luminous properties after exposure to the temperature of liquid air .
On re-thawing , a rapid renewal of the photogenic properties of the cells occurred .
The light is apparently produced by a chemical process of intracellular oxidation .
The feasibility of triturating micro-organisms at the temperature of liquid air has now been experimentally established in the case of the typhoid bacillus and other bacteria.* The effect of such mechanical trituration .at the temperature of liquid air on the luminous properties of the photogenic bacteria has now been tested .
The experiments have shown that the effect of such a trituration is to abolish the luminosity of the cells in question .
This points to the luminosity being essentially a function of the iliving cell , and dependent for its production on the intact organisation \gt ; of the cell .
I am indebted to Professor Dewar for valuable suggestions , and to Mr. Sydney Rowland and Mr. J. E. Barnard for their assistance in the experiments , which were carried out at the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine .
" An Intracellular Toxin of the Typhoid Bacillus .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. , and Sydney Rowland , M.A. Communicated by Lord Lister , F.R.S. Received August 14 , 1902 .
The existence of a specific toxin produced by the typhoid bacillus has hitherto not been demonstrated , although it has been assumed by .
analogy with other organisms and by reasoning from the clinical course of the disease .
Such a poison must either be intracellular or extracellular .
That it does not exist in filtered cultures of the organism is the \#166 ; common experience of bacteriologists .
Its absence from such cultures might be due , however , to unsuitability of the soil used for growing the organism .
# " The Intracellular Constituents of the Typhoid Bacillus , " Allan Maefadyen and Sydney Rowland , * Centralblat t f. Bakteriologie , ' vol. 30 , 1901 , No. 20 .

