1 70 Mr. Swale Vincent .
Further Observations upon the mode in the case of a random selection from a normal distribution are worked out .
5 .
Analogous results are next obtained for the skew frequency curves : y = Vx 1 + X \wi X aj and y y i ____________e \#151 ; ^tan-*a .
{ 1 + ( xja)2}m It is shown that in these cases the mean size , variation , modal frequency , and skewness are in general all such that their errors are coirelated .
Hence any selection of size modifies both the variation and skewness of the distribution .
This is of considerable importance for the theory of evolution , as in most cases of zoological frequency the distribution is of the second , or tangent curve , type .
Hence random selection of size tends to modify not only variation but skewness of distribution .
The results are too long to be cited , and their application to special cases involves somewhat lengthy , but not complex arithmetic , which in practical cases we have found much shortened by the use of the " Bransviga " calculator .
k ' b urther Observations upon the Comparative Physiology of the Suprarenal Capsules .
" By Swale Vincent , M.B. ( Bond .
) , British Medical Association Research Scholar.* Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1897 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) In previous communicationsf I have given experimental evidence in favour of the view that the paired suprarenal bodies and the interrenal gland of Elasmobranch fishes correspond respectively to the medulla and cortex of the suprarenal capsules of the higher Verte-brafca .
I have further stated , as the result of numerous experiments , that the medullary portion of the suprarenal appears to be absent in Teleosts , the suprarenal bodies in this order of fishes consisting solely of cortex .
Since performing the above series of experiments my attention has been devoted to the general physiological effects of extracts * The expenses involved in this research have been defrayed by a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
t ' Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' March 20 , 1897 ; ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. Cl , p. 64 , 1897 ; ' Anut .
Anz .
, ' vol. 13 , Nos. 1 and 2 , 1897 .
Comparative Physiology of the Suprarenal Capsules .
177 obtained from suprarenal capsules.* The extracts were made separately from cortex and medulla , and injected subcutaneously into various mammals .
It was noted that the injection of medullaiy material was invariably fatal if a sufficiently large dose were administered , while the cortical extracts produced no appieciable physiological effects .
yin the present communication the above views have been corroborated by testing the effects of the two kinds of gland in Elasmo-branchs and of the cortical suprarenals of Teleosts , when extracts of them are injected subcutaneously into small mammals .
Naturally only very small quantities of material have been available foi this purpose , but the effects upon mice have been quite definite .
The suprarenal bodies obtained from six specimens of Gadus morrhua ( weighing in a moist state 0*4 gram ) were extracted by boiling .
The filtered extract was then injected beneath the skin of the back of a mouse .
No effects whatever supervened .
Again , the paired bodies from seven specimens of Scyllium canicula ( weighing when moist 0*3 gram ) were similarly extracted , and the filtrate administered to the same mouse ( which had remained in perfect health ) a few days later .
The animal was immediately and powerfully affected .
The breathing became very rapid , the limbs became weak , the temperature lowered , and death ensued after convulsions in less than five minutes .
The interrenal gland produced no effects when similarly administered .
[ A further experiment with material obtained from Raja clavata has been performed .
The u axillary hearts " ( anterior paired bodies ) were removed from three fair-sized specimens , and found to weigh in a moist state 0*2 gram .
The interrenal bodies were also removed , and weighed also 0*2 gram .
Extracts were then prepared of each of these , and injected subcutaneously into two separate mice of as nearly as possible the same weight .
The mouse which was injected with the extract from the paired suprarenals , was affected in a few minutes .
The respirations were very quick at first , afterwards becoming slower and slower .
Faralj^sis quickly came on , first in the hind limbs .
All the four limbs were distinctly stiffened before death , which supervened in two hours after injection .
The other mouse , injected with extract of interrenal , died about 24 hours after injection.f\#151 ; November 15 .
] These experiments afford further positive evidence of the homology * ' Physiol. Soo .
Proc./ June 12 , 1827 ; ' Journ. of Physiol./ vol. 22 ( Nos. 1 and 2 , Sept , i ) , 1897 .
f This result must be attributed to contamination with the paired bodies , and is analogous to the effect one sometimes obtains upon the blood-pressure when interrenal extract is injected intravenously .
1'8 Mr. W. Heap .
On the Transplantation and Growth of of the paired bodies of Elasmobranchs with the medulla of the mammalian suprarenal .
The direct evidence in favour of the homo-logy of the interrenal with the cortex of the suprarenal is mostly morphological and histological , and I have detailed this elsewhere * Fiuther Note on the T ransplantation and Growth of Mammalian Ova within a Uterine Foster-mother .
" By Walter Heap , M.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. W. H. Gaskell , F.R.S. Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1897 .
In 1890 I recordedf an experiment designed to show that it is possible to make use of the uterus of one variety of rabbit as a medium for the growth and complete foetal development of fertilised ova of another variety of rabbit1 he expeliment ^vas further undertaken m order to determine what effect , if any , a uterine foster-mother would have upon her foster-children , ana whether or not the presence , during development , of foreign ova in the uterus of a mother would affect offspring of that mother present in the uterus at the same time .
In the experiment above referred to , two fertilised ova were obtained from an Angora doe rabbit which had been inseminated thirty-two hours previously by an Angora buck , , and they were inserted into the fallopian tube of a Belgian Hare doe , , which had been inseminated three hours before by a Duck of the same breed as herself .
In due couise the Belgian Hare doe littered six young ' , four of which were Belgian Hares , while the other two were Angoras .
There was no trace of any cross in any of these young , the four Belgian Hares and the two Angoras were true bred .
The experiment seemed to me to show , so far as a single experiment could show , that a uterine foster-mother has no power of modifying the breed of her foster-children , and that her uterus during gestation and the nourishment she supplies to the embryo is analogous to a bed of soil with its various nutrient constituents , I had hoped to follow this experiment with others on a larger scale the following year , but was unable to make the attempt until 1893 .
That year I had extraordinary bad luck with my rabbits .
I used Angoras and Belgian Hares as before , and out of ten Angora does used , four had no ova in their fallopian tubes after being satisfactorily covered , two had dead ova , and only four produced seg- # 4 Zool. Soc. Trans. , ' yol .
14 , Part III , 1897 ; * Birm .
Not .
Hist , and Pliil .
Soc. Proc. , ' yol .
10 , Part I , 1896 ; 4 Anat .
Anz.,9 vol. 12 , Nos. 9 and 10 , 1896. .
f 4 Hoy .
Soc. Proc.,9 vol. 48 .

