OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Karl Ernst von Baer , one of the ten children of Magnus von Baer , was born at the family estate of Piep , in Esthonia , on the 28th of February , 1792 .
The first seven years of his life were spent in the house of his childless uncle , Karl von Baer , who seems to have had a wholesome dread of premature teaching , for when the young nephew returned in his eighth year to his father 's house in order to be educated with his sisters , he did not so much as know his letters , though he had so far grown in mind as to be heartily ashamed of his backwardness .
He speedily , however , made up for lost time , and in 1807 was entered at the High School of Reval , which he left in 1810 to join the University of Dorpat .
Already drawn towards natural history , and especially towards botany , he became a student of medicine , and on the 29th of August , 1814 , took his degree of doctor .
The medical teaching at Dorpat was at that time far from satisfactory ; from none of his masters save from Burdach , the physiologist , can Baer be said to have learnt anything , and when he became doctor he felt that his medical training had yet to begin .
He accordingly moved to Vienna ; but the more he tried to throw himself into purely medical studies , the more he felt that fate had not destined him for an active professional life .
In the spring of 1815 , happening to make with a friend a visit to the neighbouring Schneeberg , the Alpine flora he there found so powerfully revived his repressed love of botanical studies , that le determined at all risks to devote himself as far as possible to science .
An accidental interview with von Martius determined him to place himself in the same summer under Dollinger , at Wurzburg , and the merit of having made von Baer an anatomist must be reckoned to the credit of that worthy teacher .
Thither also came Baer 's friend and countryman , Pander , to begin under Ddllinger those studies on the development of the chick in which Baer was destined afterwards to take so great a part .
At Wurzburg , however , Baer showed nothing more than a friendly interest in these investigations , and when in 1 ' he moved to Konigsberg to become prosector to Burdach who had m 1814 been transferred thither from Dorpat , he threw himself with zeal into the ordinary anatomical and zoological studies .
He ha spent the previous winter in Berlin in order to fit himself more tu y for his new post , His activity soon made itself felt ; besides his purely anatomical lectures and demonstrations he found time to deliver an anthropological course , thus early indicating the tendencies to which he gave up so many of his later years , and in 1819 to establish a new VOL. XXVII .
ii zoological museum .
In the same year he was made Professor Extra-ordinarius , and , looking upon himself as now settled at Konigsberg , married Fraulein von Medem .
In 1822 he became Professor Ordi-narius , and in 1826 succeeded Burdach as Professor of Anatomy and Director of the Anatomical Institute .
Ever since his arrival at Konigsberg he had devoted himself with great energy to zootomy , and published several zoological and anatomical papers , notable among which is one containing the first exposition of his views on animal types .
In 1818 , however , he received from his friend Pander a copy of the monograph on the development of the chick , the study of which led him in the spring of 1819 to commence those embryological investigations with which his name will ever be connected .
These were carried on with unwearied diligence for seven years , and it was not until 1827 that he made his results known in the form of a contribution to Burdach 's Physiology .
In his capacity as editor , however , Burdach saw fit to make so many changes and omissions as greatly to dissatisfy Baer , who determined to publish his researches in an independent form .
This he did in 1828 under the title of " Ueber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Thiere , Beo-bachtung und Reflexion .
" Meanwhile , in the spring of 1827 , he had made the important discovery of the existence of the mammalian ovary in the ovum .
The " Entwickelungsgeschichte " consists , in the first place , of a detailed chronological description of the development of the chick in the egg ; and , in the second place , of general deductions and reflexions in the form of scholia and corollaries .
Almost immediately afterwards Baer began a more general and systematic account of development under the title of " Vorlesungen fiber Zeugung und Entwicklung der organischen Korper .
" The first sheets of this were printed in 1829 , but the work was then interrupted for several years , and was finally published without the author 's permission in 1834 as the second part of the " Entwickelungsgeschichte .
" In 1827 Baer received an invitation to become a member of the Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburgh .
This he did not immediately accept ; but in 1829 , without resigninghis professorship at Konigsberg , made a journey to St. Petersburgh to see whether it would be possible for him to carry on his investigations in that city .
He found , however , the hindrances to work so many and great , that he declined the call and returned to his old post , throwing himself with renewed vigour into his studies .
A few years later these incessant labours began to tell upon his health .
He grew enfeebled , his nights became sleepless , and he began to fear that his Avork was ended .
Just at this juncture his elder brother , who was in possession of the family estate , died , and his sisters strongly pressed him to undertake the charge of the property which would eventually pass to his own son .
These seignorial duties would be perfectly compatible with a residence at Stf Petersburgh , and accordingly in the summer of 1834 be bade good-bye to the scene of bis labours and triumphs , and at the end of the year entered upon his new duties at St. Petersburgh as zoological member of the Academy of Sciences .
He soon afterwards became one of the librarians of the Academy 's library , and m 1841 was appointed Professor of Comparative Anatomy and Physiology m the Medico-Chirurgical Academy ; this latter post , however , he resign after a few years .
With his departure from Konigsberg Baer 's labours as an embryologist may be said to have closed ; the rest of his life he devoted to anthropology , using that word in its widest sense .
He took advantage oi his position in the Academy to employ the resources of the Russian Empire in collecting materials for the study of the natural history of man .
" Das Studium der Bildungsgeschichte des menschlichen Geschlechtes , die hochste aller Wissenschaften .
" Hot content with setting out others on travels of inquiry , with drawing up instructions as to what t ev should observe and collect , with directing and superintending the publication of their results , he must needs himself undertake long voyages ; and these were at intervals continued until he had reached an advanced age .
In 1837 lie journeyed , not without dangers anc hardships , to Nova Zembla , and again in 1840 to the North Cape .
In 1851 he began with the assistance of the Imperial Government a series of voyages in order to investigate the conditions of the fisheries of the Russian Empire .
Besides shorter visits to the northern seas he spent nearly the whole of four years , from 1853 to 1857 , m the neighbourhood of the Caspian Sea , returning to St. Petersburgh twice on y durino- the interval .
And in 1860 he again journeyed south , this time to the Sea of Azov .
In all these wanderings he had m view the solution of problems not only of national economy but of the distribution and conditions of life of animals , plants , and man , of natural history , in fact , in its widest sense .
It was chiefly m the interests of anthropology that in 1858-61 he visited the museums of the Continent and of London .
In 1864 he celebrated the jubilee of his doctorate , on which occasion was published , in a handsome volume , an account of his life , written by himself , at the request of the Ritterschaft of his native province The same year , however , brought sorrow as well as joy , for it took from him his wife ; and feeling himself now weighted with the burden of years , he resigned his post as ordinary member of the Academy , becoming an honorary member instead , and in 1866 removed to Dorpat , where he could live more quietly than in the imperial city and where he was nearer to the family estate .
But not even here he altogether rest , devoting much time in these later years to an exposition of his general views , and especially to a criticism o IV Darwinism , of which he remained to the end an opponent .
His activity was at last broken by the increasing infirmities of old age , and on the 28th November , 1876 , at five in the afternoon , he passed away .
Only ten days before his death had he prepared for publication a communication to the " Archiv .
fur Anthropologie .
" In 1854 he was elected a foreign member of the Society , and in 1867 he received the Copley medal .
Thus , as with so many other great men , Baer 's intellectual life passed through two phases : an embryological phase to which the strength of his manhood was devoted , and an anthropological phase which absorbed the energy of his later years .
And , as with other great men , it is by virtue of the earlier phase that his name is destined never to be forgotten .
It is no disrespect to his later labours to say that they cannot , in importance , be for one moment compared to the work of those seven years which produced the " Entwickelungsge-schichte .
" When , in 1819 , Baer put his hand to the plough , sixty years had passed since Wolff published his " Theoria Generations , " and during the whole of that long interval there had been no worthy embryological work , save Pander 's tract , which , though admirable , was but a fragment ; the skeleton which Wolff had put together had as yet to be clothed , and the views to which Wolff 's genius had by instinct led him , needed still to be made sure by detailed proofs .
When in 1828 Baer sent his sheets to the press , the story of the growth of the chick was in its main features complete .
The varied manifold labours of embryologists since that day have filled up gaps and rounded off angles in Baer 's edifice , but they have hardly touched the structure itself .
But it is almost the least of Baer 's merits to have made known a mass of new facts touching the formation of the bird and other animals .
Facts were to him useless , save as bricks wherewith to build up true views of nature .
All through his slow toilsome study of the folds and twists , the thickenings and thinnings of the growing chick , he was supported by the sure hope that in the flitting shadows of embryonic forms was to be found the key to the laws of animal organisation .
He wrote to Pander , " Gleich einem leuchtenden Strahle schoss es mir durch die Seele , dass der Typus im Bau der Wirbelthiere sich allmahlig im Embryo ausbildet .
" It is not on account of the extent and accuracy of his work , for others , such as Rathke , have been as laborious and accurate , that Baer 's inquiries mark an epoch .
It is because he was the first , if not actually to see ( for Merkel had some twenty years before laid hold of the same truth ) , at least clearly to enunciate , and indeed to demonstrate , the important law that the embryonic phases of the individual are tokens of the relations of kind and race .
Working as we do now in the light of the doctrine of natural selec* V tion we can see that Baer stopped short when he ought to have gone on ' He was satisfied when he had applied his law of " progress from the general to the special , " so far as to make it clear that the manifold forms of animal life were educts of a few general types .
He did not see and to the end refused to admit , that these types were themselves the ' educts of an evolution .
And the antagonism which m his later years he manifested towards modern views of evolution and recent embryology was based on the feeling that the new doctrine swept away the necessity for ultimate abstract types .
Like the theory of epicycles in the old astronomy , Baer 's views have succumbed before a simpler conception , of the truth of which the results of his own labours afford some of the strongest supports .
Like the epicyclists , Baer largely prepared the way for the wider doctrine which has swallowed up his own .

