\amp ; 70 Prof. V\r .
K. Clifford on the Classification of Loci .
[ May 9 , ( 3 .
) Giant cells .
Mnltinuclear masses of protoplasm .
( 4 .
) Conoentric corpuscles of various sizes , sometimes attached to 'one another by long processes .
The corpuscles are formed of two parts\#151 ; a central portion , which is granular , and is acted on in a peculiar manner by staining fluids ; and a peripheral portion formed of flattened epitheloid cells continuous with the reticulum .
The concentric corpuscles are concerned in the formation of blood-vessels and trabeculae .
The granular cells , giant cells , and concentric corpuscles , are almost entirely confined to the central portions of the follicles .
In fresh preparations , colourless nucleated cells are seen , which contain granules and spherules of haemoglobin ; these cells either form parts of the concentric corpuscles , or are in close connexion with them .
The blood-vessels of the cortical portions of the follicle are of small size ; they run in lines from the periphery of the follicle to the edge of the medullary portion .
The medullary portion of the follicle is surrounded by a ring of blood-vessels ; the vessels are larger in the medullary portion than in the cortical portion of the follicle .
III .
" On the Classification of Loci .
" By W. K. Clifford , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mathematics in University College , London .
Received April 8 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) " A curve , " is to be understood to mean a continuous one-dimen* sional aggregate of any sort of elements , and therefore not merely a curve in the ordinary geometrical sense , but also a singly infinite system of curves , surfaces , complexes , \amp ; c. , such that one condition is sufficient to determine a finite number of them .
The elements may be regarded as determined by h co-ordinates ; and if these be .
connected by h\#151 ; 1 equations of any order , the curve is either the aggregate of common solutions , or , when this breaks up into algebraically distinct parts , the curve is one of these parts .
In the paper , of which this is an abstract , theorems are established relating to the nature of the space in which such curves can exist , to the mode of representing them in flat space of lower dimensions , and to some of their properties .
The following are the leading theorems:\#151 ; I. Every proper curve of the nth order is in a flat space of n dimensions or less .
II .
A curve of order n in flat space of Tc dimensions ( or less ) may be represented , point for point , on a curve of order n \#151 ; + 2 in a plane .
1878 .
] Sir W. Thomson .
Harmonic Analyzer .
371 jjl , curve of order w , in flat space of n dimensions ( and no less ) , is always unicursal .
From this the author obtains a representation of the points of an n dimensional space by means of groups of n points on such a unicursal carve , corresponding to the methods of Hirst and Darboux for 3-dimensional space .
When n is even , the system corresponds to that of poles and polars in regard to a quadric locus upon which the curve lies .
When n is odd , every point is co-flat ( i.e. , + 1 points lie in the same n \#151 ; 1 flat ) , with the n points of the osculant ( n \#151 ; 1 ) flats which can he drawn through it .
IV .
Every curve of order n in flat space of 1 dimensions is either unicnrsal or elliptic .
V. When the curve is unicursal , and n is odd , the n points of superosculation , or points of stationary osculant ( n \#151 ; 2 ) flats , are on the same ( n \#151 ; 2 ) flat .
But when n is even , this will be the case only under a certain condition .
VI .
When the curve is elliptic ( or bi-cursal ) the class of the curve is n ( n \#151 ; 1 ) , and the number of superosculants w* .
If we consider a curve of the order n and deficiency j ) , existing in h dimensions , a ( fc \#151 ; 1 ) flat cuts such a curve in n points , such that the sum of each of the p parameters ( Abel 's theorem gives p equations between the parameters of n points which lie on a ( Jc 1 ) flat ) , for these n points is zero .
And we obtain the theorem VII .
A curve of order n and deficiency p , not greater than \#163 ; n , can at most exist inn\#151 ; p dimensions .
IV .
" Harmonic Analyzer .
" Shown and explained by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow .
Received May 9 , 1878 .
This is a realization of an instrument designed rudimentarily in the author 's communication to the Royal Society ( " Proceedings , February 3rd , 1876 ) , entitled " On an Instrument for Calculating the Integral of the Product of two given Functions .
" It consists of five disk globe and cylinder integrators of the kind described in Professor James Thomson 's paper " On an Integrating Machine having a new Kinematic Principle , " of the same date , and represented in the annexed woodcuts .
The five disks are all in one plane , and their centres in one line .
The axes of the cylinders are all in a line parallel to it .
The diameters of the five cylinders are all equal , so are those of the globes ; hence the centres of .
the globes are in a line parallel to the line of the centres of the disks , and to the line of the axes of the cylinders .

