LXXXIII .
An Account of several Bones of an Elephant found at Leysdown in the Island of Sheppey .
In two Letters from Mr. Jacob , Surgeon at Feversham , to James Parsons , M. D. F. R. S. dated May 24 , 1754 .
SIR , THREE or four years ago I sent you the acetabulum of an elephant , which was discovered sticking in the clay , which was partly washed away from the cliff , at a place called Leysdown , in the isle of Sheppey , a full mile eastward of the cliffs of Minster .
This , with other parts , as one of the spinal vertebrae , a thigh-bone four feet long , and numberless other fragments too rotten to be then taken up entire , I saw ; all which lay below high-water mark : And as the place , and some adjacent land , soon after , became my property by a purchase I made ; I went , attended by workmen , in search of more , and found an elephant 's tusk ; and , as it lay entire to appearance , took its dimensions ; which were , in length , eight feet ; and in circumference , in the middle , twelve inches : But it fell all to pieces , when we endeavoured to raise it .
I found , also , part of a scapula , its sinus almost entire , and three inches diameter .
I have since found some pieces of grinders , and , by care , hope for more ; and have now a larger one , from another part of this island .
The pyrites , however , abounds so much in the clay wherein this 2 Read June 13 , this animal was embedded , that I despair of finding any whole bones : But I think these fragments are sufficient to show , that the elephant was as large as that mentioned by Fentzelius , in these Transactions .
The apex of the tusk , which I preserved , and the acetabulum before you , were both found within twenty feet of the other bones mentioned , and are , as I apprehend , in better condition than they~ are , from their being taken up immediately upon being discovered , and not left to be exposed to the injury of the weather , and violence of the tides ; which soon affects bodies so exposed , after having lain under

