1876 .
] Use of the Piezometer in Deep-Sea Sounding .
XVII .
" Preliminary Note on the Use of the Piezometer in Deep-Sea Sounding .
" By J. Y. Buchanan , Chemist to the f Challenger ' Expedition .
Communicated by Professor Williamson , Foreign Secretary R.S. Received June 14 , 1876 .
In order to determine the depth of the sea independently of the length of sounding-line used , piezometers filled with distilled water were frequently attached to the line along with the deep-sea thermometers .
The combined effects of change of temperature and change of pressure were registered by a steel index of ordinary form .
The temperature of the bottom-water being given by the deep-sea thermometer , the effect of temperature on the apparent volume of water in the piezometer could easily be calculated ; and from the residual effect , the pressure , and therefore the height , of the column of water to which the instrument had been subjected could be deduced .
The piezometer did not differ materially from the ordinary ones used for the determination of the compressibility of liquids .
A minute description of the fittings necessary for their safe use on the sounding-line cannot be given without reference to a drawing or model , and must therefore be postponed .
It is manifest that if the apparent compressibility of water is accurately known , we shall be in a position to determine , by means of our instrument and a deep-sea thermometer , the depth to which it has been sunk , independently of the lengths of sounding-line used ; for the indications of the instrument depend solely on the temperature of the water at the depth in question , and on its vertical distance from the surface .
The determination of the effect of change of temperature on such an instrument does not demand explanation .
It is , however , otherwise with the effects of pressure .
In submitting an instrument of the kind to high pressures in an hydraulic machine , we encounter difficulty in accurately determining the pressure to which it is exposed , and also , although in a minor degree , in making our observations at the low temperature usually obtaining in deep ocean waters .
I have therefore taken as basis for the determination of the apparent compressibility of water the results obtained when the instrument has been sent down on the sounding-line , either to the bottom or to intermediate depths , in positions where there has been no apparent disturbance from currents , and where the amounts of compression produced have been proportional to the depths recorded by the sounding-lines .
Where currents are absent , and their presence is at once detected by the behaviour of the sounding-line , the depth , as determined according to the method of sounding adopted on board the ' Challenger , ' gives an excellent measure of the pressure exercised on the instruments .
As the variations in the temperature , the salinity , and the compressibility of sea-wrater with the depth have been thoroughly invesMr .
J. Y. Buchanan on the Use of [ June 15 , tigated for the soundings in question , the weight of a column of seawater in any of these localities can be calculated with great accuracy .
The observations which have been taken as a basis for determinations of depth were made in the latter part of the year 1875 in the South-Pacific Ocean .
They were twenty in number , and were made at depths varying from 500 to 2300 fathoms , and at temperatures varying from l'-4 to 4'-03 C. The mean compressibility of water determined from these # observations was 00008986 per 100 fathoms of sea-water , the extreme values being 0-000915 and 0-000882 .
Observations made at greater depths in the North Pacific gave as a mean of six observations at depths varying from 2740 to 3125 fathoms the value 0-000878 , indicating a slight diminution in the coefficient of compression at very high pressures .
The effect of pressure being thus known , we are in a position , by comparing the indications of the instrument with those of a trustworthy deep-sea thermometer , to determine the absolute depth to which it has been sunk beneath the surface ; and assuming the depth as indicated by the sounding-line to be correct , we should be able to determine the temperature at the depth in question from the indications of our instrument , and without the use of a thermometer .
Por the latter purpose , however , the instrument , as above described , is useless , because the dilatability of water at the low temperatures obtaining in deep water is so small as to be negligible compared with its elasticity .
The application , however , of the principle above indicated would manifestly present some very great advantages in the determination of deep-sea temperatures .
In the open ocean , where , as a rule , the temperature diminishes constantly as the depth increases , the Millar-Casella thermometer gives sufficiently accurate results .
In the case of enclosed seas , or in the neighbourhood of ice , however , this is not always the case .
In the Mediterranean , the Bed Sea , and many of the seas of the Eastern archipelago , besides , possibly , large tracts both of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans , the temperature decreases regularly down to a certain depth , which is different for different seas ; and at all greater depths the Millar-Casella thermometer gives identical readings , indicating that the water is either at the same temperature or some higher one .
In the neighbourhood of ice , layers of water are frequently met with at various depths whose temperature , being higher than that of the surface , is indicated by the maximum index of the Millar-Casella thermometer .
Besides these layers there may be , and .
there probably are , others whose temperature is higher than that of the water immediately above them without reaching that of the surface , and their temperature would remain unrecorded .
It would therefore be of great advantage if the piezometer could be adapted for the determination of temperatures at known depths .
An efficient instrument for this purpose has been obtained by filling the bulb of the piezometer with mercury 1876 .
] the Piezometer in Deep-Sea .
163 instead of water .
The portion of the stem in which the index moves is filled with water , and , as in the other , the open end dips into a cup of mercury .
We have thus an instrument filled with a very large quantity of mercury and a very small quantity of water ; and after immersion the position of the index shows the apparent volume assumed by this mixture under the combined influence of temperature and pressui-e .
As far as the effects of temperature are concerned , the amount of water in the instrument is almost wholly negligible ; but when the effect of pressure is considered , the apparent compressibility of mercury is so small , being little more than one fiftieth of that of water , that the pressure of even so small a quantity of water as can be contained in the graduated tube increases very materially the amount of contraction produced by pressure .
The instrument , which has been in use since the beginning of November last year , and which is designated XVII .
contains 256-61 grammes of mercury in the bulb and stem immediately above it ; the volume of the part of the stem filled with water is 0-1935 c. c. The apparent contraction of this mass of mercury and water is 0*000581 cubic centimetres per 100 fathoms , and 0-0025 c. c. per degree respectively .
A fall therefore of one degree in temperature produces the same effect as an increase of pressure equal to 430 fathoms of sea-water .
Hence ( and this forms the important peculiarity of the instrument ) as long as the temperature of the sea does not increase with the depth at a greater rate than 1 ' C. per 430 fathoms , the instrument will record the temperature correctly .
The ratio subsisting between the amount of temperature and the column of water , which produce the same effect on the apparent volume , is a constant for every instrument ; in our one it is T^ .
By altering only very slightly the amount of water , the sensibility to pressure is greatly increased or diminished , while'that to temperature remains practically unchanged .
As the instrument XVII .
a was intended principally for bottom-waters , the above ratio ( T]T ) was considered sufficient , and it has proved practically useful .
It must be remembered that the greater the value of this ratio is made , the greater is the error introduced into the determination of the temperature by any inaccuracy in the measurement of the depth . .
By attaching a combination of one , or better of two , of each of these instruments close to the weight at the end of the sounding-line , the depth of the sea and the temperature of the water at the bottom at any locality can be accurately determined , provided that sufficient evidence is afforded , either by the presence of a sample of bottom in the sounding-tube , or by the rate at which the line runs out , that the instruments have been at the bottom ; otherwise the depth which they have attained and the temperature at that depth will be correctly given .
Bor this purpose it is necessary first to let the line run out until , from observations on its velocity , it is evident that the weight has reached the bottom ; the length 164 Use of the Piezometer in Deep-Sea .[June 15 , of line which has so run out will give the depth approximately , but more or less in excess of the truth according to circumstances .
^ Allowing for the contraction which would be produced by this depth in the case of the mercury piezometer , a first approximation to the temperature of the bottom-water is at once obtained ; and it is sufficiently accurate for the purpose of correctly determining the contraction produced on the water piezometer by the change of temperature , and consequently for deducing the depth to which the instrument has been sunk .
By now applying the more correct depth to the reading of the mercury instrument , we obtain the correct temperature , and if necessary the approximation might be carried still closer .
As an example of the use of the combined instruments , the observations made on the 29th February , 1876 , may be taken .
The position of the sounding was lat. 36 ' 9( S. , long .
48 ' 22 AVI , and the depth by line was 2800 fathoms .
The sea was quite calm , but there was a strong current setting to the south-east , rendering it probable that the depth , as determined by line , was considerably in excess of the true depth .
The mercury instrument ( XVII .
a)registered 166-2 millims. In order to clear this reading for a depth of 2800 fathoms , we have to subtract 16 millims. , and we obtain 150-2 millims. as the corrected reading , from which we determine the temperature to be 0o-2 C. The reading of the water instrument was 283'8 millims. Assuming the temperature to have been 0'-2 C. , this would indicate that the water had suffered an apparent contraction , owing to pressure alone , of 0-1923 c. c. , which would be produced by a column of 2480 fathoms of sea-water .
Assuming now 2480 fathoms to be the true depth , we find the corrected reading of the mercury instrument ( XVII .
a ) to be 152-1 millims. , which indicates a temperature of \#151 ; 0'-5 C. The Millar-Casella thermometers gave the temperature as \#151 ; 0'"4 .
Assuming this as the correct bottom temperature , and reducing the reading of the water instrument ( C. No. 1 ) accordingly , we find the contraction produced by pressure to be 0-1924 c.c. , which agrees sensibly with that found on the assumption of the higher bottom-temperature of +0'"2 C. It will thus be seen that the two instruments fulfil the conditions required of them ; namely , that the one which is to indicate the temperature of the water shall be independent of great accuracy in the determination of the depth , and the one which is to indicate the depth shall be equally independent of accurate determination of the temperature ; whilst by combining the results obtained by the two , an accurate determination is obtained both of the depth and of the temperature of the water at that depth .

