I. " On the Thermal Resistance of Liquids .
" By FREDERICK GUTHRIE , F.C.S. Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL .
Received October 16 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir of which the following is an abstract gives an account of some experiments made by the author with the object of determining the laws according to which heat travels by conduction through liquids .
After pointing out the importance of the subject , and briefly recapitulating the methods previously used and the results obtained by other experimenters , the " I Diathermometer " is described .
This instrument , which may be employed for the examination of the thermal resistance or conducting power of solids as well as liquids , has the following form .
A hollow brass cone , having a platinum base , is screwed with -its apex downwards into a tripod-stand which rests upon adjusting screws .
The apex of the cone is tubular , and carries a cock , through which passes a vertical glass tube graduated and dipping into water .
The level of the water in the tube is nearly as high as the apex of the cone .
By means of a micrometer screw , a second cone , exactly similar and equal to the first , having its apex upwards , may be brought to any required distance from the lower cone .
The brass cones and their platinum faces are highly polished , and the latter are cleaned by washing successively with hot nitric acid , caustic soda , alcohol , and water .
The upper surface of the lower cone is brought into an exactly horizontal position , and the upper cone is lowered to any required distance from it .
There is thus formed between the platinum faces a cylindrical interval of known height or thickness and diameter , and having its opposite faces parallel and horizontal .
This wall-less chamber receives the liquid whose thermal resistance has to be measured .
A liquid , introduced by means of a strangulated pipette of known capacity ( equal , say , to the interstitial space when the cone-faces are 1 millim. apart ) between the cones , remains there by means of its adhesion and cohesion .
A description is given of the method used to get a constant current of water of uniform and known temperature to pass through the upper cone .
When such a current passes , the platinum face of the upper cone becomes heated ; it communicates its heat to the liquid in contactwith it .
The heat passes downwyards through the liquid , heats the upper surface of the lower cone , expands the air therein , and depresses the level of the water in the tube attached to the lower cone .
A description is given of the most prominent sources of error of this instrument , and the means which were employed to eliminate them .
It is concluded , from direct experiments ( 1st , by measuring the time required for the production of the first heat-effect in the lower cone ; 2ndly , by showing the smallness of the difference caused by the introduction of athermanous disks ) , and from comparison with recent results of Magnus , that the effect of radiation , in all the cases tried is negligible if not nothing .
By measuring resistance rather than conductivity , several sources of [ Jan. 21 , 234 experimental error are eliminated .
If the two cones are brought into actual contact , and water of a known temperature is led for a given time through the upper cone , a certain thermal effect is produced in the lower one .
If the cones be then separated , and a liquid be interposed between them , and if water of the same temperature as before be led for the same time as before through the upper cone , a less thermal effect is produced .
The dif erence between the two e ects is a measure of the resistance of the liquid .
Results so obtained have to be corrected for the varying pressure to which the air in the lower cone is subjected as the water in the glass tube sinks .
To finds the absolute results in thermal units , we have to take into account the diameter of the surface of the lower cone , its capacity , and the specific heat of the air which is in it .
The following are the chief results obtained:(1 ) The connexion in the instance of water between the thickness and the time required for the first-heat effect .
( 2 ) The connexion between the temperature and the time required for the first-heat effect .
It is shown that hotter water conducts heat better than colder ; and that the hotter the conducting-water , the greater is the difference in rate .
( 3 ) The connexion between the entire quantity of heat passing in a given time and the thickness and temperature of the conducting-water .
( 4 ) The effect of the solution of various salts in altering the thermal resistance of water .
Every salt tried was found , when dissolved in water , to increase its thermal resistance .
The author submits that the effect of the dissolved salt is chiefly , perhaps wholly , due to the displacement of a portion of the water by a substance having greater resistance , and to the modification in the specific heat of the liquid , caused by the introduction of the salt .
( 5 ) The resistance of the liquids in the following list was examined under precisely similar circumstances .
The thickness was in each case 1 millim. The initial temperature of the liquid was 2Q ?
O17C .
, and the temperature-difference , AT , was 10 ?
C. That is , the platinum surface of te upper cone was maintained at 30 ?
'17C .
The duration of the experiment in each case was 1 ' .
The numbers show the specific resistance under the above circumstances , that is , the ratio between the quantities of heat arrested by the several liquids and that arrested by water .
Liquid Specific Li Specific Liquid .
resistance .
Liquid .
resistance .
W ater ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 ' Acetate of amyl ... ... ... ... ... ... 10-00 G-lycerine ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 3-84 Amylamin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10-14 Acetic acid ( glacial ) ... ... ... ... 8-38 Amylic alcohol ... ... ... ... ... ... 10-23 Acetone ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 851 Oil of turpenine ... ... ... .
1175 Oxalate of ethyl ... ... ... ... ... ... 8'85 Nitrate of butyl ... ... ... ... ... ... 1187 Sperm-oil ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 885 Chl oroform ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 12.10 Alcohol ... ... ... ... ... .9.08 ichloride of carbon ... ... ... . .
12-92 Acetate of ethyl ... ... ... ... ... ... 908 Mercury amyl ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 12-92 Nitrobenzol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
9-86 Bromide of ethylen ... ... ... ... 13-16 Oxalate of amyl ... ... ... ... ... . .
1006 Iodide of amyl ... ... ... ... ... ... 1327 Butylic alcohol ... ... ... ... ... ... 10-00 Iodide of ethyl ( ?
) ... ... ... ... . ?
s The more salient points of these results are pointed out , such as the preeminently small resistance of water and of bodies containing a large proportion of the elements of water ( potential water ) ; the possible connexion of this fact with the results of Magnus concerning the conductivity of hydrogen ; the increased resistance accompanying increased molecular complexity in the case of isotypic liquids , as exemplified by the alcohols and their derivatives : the great resistance shown by the liquids containing halogens .
The results obtained by Tyndall in regard to relative diathermancy are shown to be in accord with the author 's results concerning resistance .
A highly diather'manous liquid invariably offers great resistance to conducted heat .
The relation between electrical and thermal resistance in the case of liquids is also briefly discussed .

