The reading of a paper entitled , ie On the Elementary Structure of Muscular Fibre of Animal and Organic Life .
" By Frederick Skey , Esq. , Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The author concludes , from his microscopic examinations of the structure of muscular fibres , that those subservient to the functions of animal life have , in man , an average diameter of one 400dth of an inch , and are surrounded by transverse circular strise varying in thickness , and in the number contained in a given space .
He describes these striae as constituted by actual elevations on the surface of the fibre , with intermediate depressions , considerably narrower than the dia ?
meter of a globule of the blood .
Each of these muscular fibres , of which the diameter is one 400dth of an inch , is divisible into bands or fibrillae , each of which is again suhdivisible into about one hundred tubular filaments , arranged parallel to one another , in a longitudinal direction , around the axisof the tubular fibre which they compose , and which contains in its centre a soluble gluten .
The partial separation of the fibrillae gives rise to the appearance of broken or interrupted circular striae , which are occasionally seen .
The diameter of each filament is one 16,000dth of an inch , or about a third part of that of a globule of the blood .
On the other hand , the muscles of organic life are composed , not of fibres similar to those above described , but of filaments only ; these filaments being interwoven with each other in irregularly disposed lines of various thickness ?
having for the most part a longitudinal direction , but forming a kind of untraeeable network .
They are readily distinguishable from teadinous fibres , by the filaments of the latter being uniform in their size , and pursuing individually one unvarying course , in lines parallel to each other .
The fibres of the heart appear to possess a somewhat compound character of texture .
The muscles of the pharynx exhibit the character of any ?
mal life ; while those of the oesophagus , the stomach , the intestines , and the arterial system , possess that of inorganic life .
The determi ?
nation of the exact nature of the muscular fibres of the iris presented considerable difficulties , which the author has not yet been able satis ?
factorily to overcome .
A paper was also in part read , entitled , " On the Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Medulla Spinalis , and on the Excito-motory System of Nerves .

