2 .
" On the Comparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland .
" By John Simon , Esq. , Assistant Surgeon to King 's College Hospital , and Demonstrator of Anatomy in King 's College .
Communicated by Joseph Henry Green , Esq. , F.R.S. The author , considering that the careful dissections of Meckel and Cuvier have fully established the universal existence of a thyroid gland in the whole of the class Mammalia , proceeds to consider the comparative anatomy of this organ in the remaining classes of vertebrated animals .
His dissections of birds have included all the orders , and , in most instances , several families from each : he has never failed to find in them a thyroid gland , and , with the aid of the microscope , to recognise its peculiar structure ; he presumes , therefore , that it is universally present in that class of animals .
He has also detected the presence of this organ in reptiles of every order ; although generally either wholly overlooked by anatomists , or mistaken for the thymus .
Descriptions are here given of its appearance , position and structure in different families of Chelonia , Sauria , Ophidia and Batrachia .
In the class of Fishes , it is by no means universally or even generally present .
The author has found it in the carp , anableps , pike , exocetus , cod , haddock , whiting , eel , sturgeon , callorhynchus , shark and skate , and perhaps in the lamprey .
On the other hand , it appears to be absent in the perch , mullet , gurnard , mackerel , tench , salmon , trout , herring , plaice , halibut , turbot , sole , cyclopterus , gymnotus and balistes .
The general conclusion which the author deduces from his researches is , that the distribution of the thyroid gland is regulated by a simple and uniform law ; being dependent on the existence or nonexistence of another organ with which its presence alternates , and which , in many fishes , assumes the form of a minute supplementary gill , the vessels of which communicate , on the one hand , with the systemic veins about the base of the cranium , and on the other , by a single long trunk with the first branchial vein .
Although the thyroid gland occupies various situations in different animals , it always maintains an intimate relation with the vascular supply of the brain , and is always so nourished as to be capable of a greater or less nutrition according to the activity or repose of that nervous centre .

