Philos : Transact : No : 268 .
M fig : .
o CCL fig : 8 .
D BB B2 3 EH F 4 8 G 51 A2E A3H 6 7KI fig : 6 .
W fig : 3 .
E fig : 2 .
HK fig : 4 .
I OGDF L N B fig : 1 .
fig : 5 .
S R CQ A P M LN M fig. ~ .
B A ~ : 6.W VDC III .
A Letter from Mr Anthony Van Lewenhoek , F. R. S. concerning his further observations on the animalcula in Semine Masculino .
I Observed in the month of July that the young Rams made several attempts to couple with the Ewes , tho they were but four months and a half old , and tho they are not ripe for Copulation till about ~ months after .
Observing these motions of the young Rams , I thought with my self , that the Worms , or little Creaturs , which are found in the Male Seed might be living and moving .
I ordered a Butcher to send me the Testicles of the next young Ram which he should kill , which he accordingly did on the 24th of June~ ; I presently opened the Vasa Deferentia of the Testicles , and took out the matter therein contained , and making my observations with my Microscope , I perceived a great many of those Worms , but none living ; which was not strange , when I found afterwards that the Ram had been killed near 30 hours before they brought me the Stones .
Hereupon they killed another Ram the 27th of July , in the evening , and sent me the Testicles immediately , whereof the Butcher having taken off the first Skin , I presently stripped off the second Membrane , that I might lay the Vasa Deferentia naked before my Eyes .
First , I opened the Seminal Vessel that lies without upon the Testicle , from whence I took the Seed out , which to the naked eye appeared white , and looking upon it with my Glass , I observed such an unspeakable number of Living Creatures therein , that none would believe but an eye-witness , swimming in the liquor in vast shoals together , some steering the same course , then by thousands at a time breaking off from one company , and joining themselves to another ; in a word , the strange and wonderful swimming of these Creatures is impossible to be described .
Moreover , I placed some of the Seminal Vessels before the Microscope , to discover , if possible , the Creatures living therein , but I could not discover any thing of it .
I follow 'd the Vasa Deferentia till I brought them to their joining with the Adferentia , in which Vessels I found a mighty number of these Worms , but none living .
Next , I opened the Testicle into which these Vessels went , but could not discover in the least any of these Creatures in the Seed , but instead thereof I saw a great many Bubbles or Bladders , some as big as those Worms , and some less .
The next morning early I opened again some of theSeminal Vessels , near the place where I had opened the others the day before , and found them as lively as at the first time ; but when I continued the same Observations about noon , I could not perceive that any of the Worms were living .
On the 30th of July in the morning I got the Testicles of another young Ram , of about the same Age with the former .
Hereupon I sent to three of my friends , to come immediately to my house , because I had something Curious to impart to them .
The first thing I did was to squeeze the Seed out of the Vasa Aderentia of one of the Rams Stones , and setting the same before the Microscope , I made them look upon it one after another , and they owned to me that they saw an unspeakable number ( that was their expression ) of living Creatures swimming and hovering like Clouds over one another .
Afterwards I opened the Seminal Vessels within the Testicle , where they lay interlaced , and as it were in a bundle shut up in a Membrane , and the number of Worms was not less in those Vessels than in the other .
There is a certain Gentleman , who glories that he was the first that ever discovered these Creatures , by the help of a Microscope ; but herein he is much mistaken , for whereas he owns that his first Discovery was in the year 1678 .
I did not only give the Royal Society an account of the same , by my Letter of November .
1677 , but even 3 or 4 years before , at the request of Mr Ol .
denburg , I had made an enquiry into those matters .
Now I am speaking of this same Author , it may not be improper to send you a Draught of the Worm in the Male Seed , just so as he represents it ; whereby you may judge that either his Microscopes are not fine enough for these uses , or that he himself is not sufficiently qualified to make such exact and minute observations .
Fig. 1 .
ABC represents the Worm as he drew it , AB shows the Body , and AC the Tail .
As for my part , I ca n't conceive that there is any such Creature in the world ; for such a Creature is contrary to that Perfection which we observe in all Creatures ; for allowing that these Worms in the Male Seed are shaped for Swimming , as we always observe , such a shape as is now delineated is exceeding improper for that use , because the very tip of the Tail at C is thicker than A , and that the further part of it is of an equal Thickness , whereas we find in all Creatures , and especially in those that use the Water , and are provided with Tails , that their Tails are always very sharp or pointed at the end , to the intent that the Water after the more convenient manner may fill the place which they leave in moving .
Now the Tails of these Worms are thickest next their Bodies , and proportionably gow less and less , till at last the very end of all , if the matter in which they swim be thicker than ordinary , escapes the sight , agreeing , as to their Tails with all sorts of Fishes , and the same is in Land Animals , whose Tails are proportioned to their Bigness , and always grows less towards the end .
Having observed with my Microscope many of those Creatures which I took out of the Testicles of the Ram , a little before the writing of this , I caus 'd several of them to be drawn as follows .
Fig. 2 .
DEF shows one of these Worms lying dead , without that moisture in which they swim whilst living ; in this , as in all the rest , you may observe that the Tail is thickest next the Body .
In the Body of the said Creature at D and E are two round Bubbles , which are clearer and more transparent than the rest of the Body .
As the Painter had several of these Worms before his eyes at once , I ordered him to draw one of them whose Tail was more curved than the others .
Hereupon the Painter drew that Worm which is described by Fig. 3 .
GHI K. He delineated some parts of the Body which do not agree with those of Fig. 2 .
but that ought not seem strange to us , when we consider that their different Site or Position is sufficient to make them appear different ; for if sometimes the Belly be opposed to our sight , and sometimes the Back or Sides , their Entrails , which are covered with a thin clear Membrane in their Bodies , must needs appear of a different Contexture ; so that in short the same Worm might be represented to our sight in 18 or 20 several postnres .
Amongst the different Windings and Inflexions of the Tails of these Worms , I ordered the Limner to take that which is represented by Fig. 4 .
LMN O , in the Body of which we observed a dark and longish Plek .
Near the afore-mention 'd Creature lay another , described by Fig. 5 .
PQR S , of which as well as he could he drew the parts of the Body P Q , as also the crooked bending Tail PR S. Then I saw two other Worms near these , which a Credulous person would have said were two Creatures with one Tail , but I assured my self that a part of the Tail was hid under the others , and that it was impossible to distinguish them , and besides they were too big for one Tail ; in another place I saw two other Worms lying much after the same manner , but I could perceive distinctly their two Tails .
Fig. 6 .
TVWX shows you the two Worms last mentioned , and WX their joined .
Tails .
I have often seen 8 or 10 of these Creatures lying so close to one another that many would have believed it ' was but one Body ; but I , that am no Credulous person , stood gazing on them so long , till at last I could distinguish not only their several Bodies , but also their Tails .
By Fig. 7 .
ABCD the aforesaid Author describes the Worms of his observing , of which ABC is the Body , which must needs appear so long , if one uses such a sort of a Glass bubble as he says he did , and when the Rays of Sight of his Glass fall upon the upper part of the Body ; but if he will look deeper into it , the Body will appear much Broader .
As for the Tail of his Worm , how can the All perfect Being Create such a thing as the end of that Tail D appears ; and if it were so shaped , it would be impossible for the Worm to move so nimbly in such a slimy matter , neither could they strike it out , as they always do in swimming : To To which we may add , that these Creatures swim in such vast shoals in their liquid matter , that , to judge of them better , and of the Proportion they bear to the slimy matter in which they live , you may compare them to a pound of Barley mixed with two pounds of Water ; for as the Barley-corns are to the Water , so are these Creatures to their Liquor ; now this being so , how is it possible that Creatures with such forked Tails , and crowded together in such mighty numbers , could swim about without touching , but even without hurting one another .
If this Author has such Microscopes , and as small as can be grinded , he must examine the Object a little closer the next time ; then he will find his mistake ; but if he be not sharp-sighted enough , what shall one say when he comes to speak of a whole Man .
I have looked thro hundreds of Microscopes , and some of them so fine that I could use them by day light , tho the weather were cloudy , but I could never spy any such Tail as is described by Fig. 7 .
D , but on the contrary , of millions and millions that I have seen my self and shown to others , it has often happened that the ends of their Tails were so small that they escaped our sight .
It is well known to many , that my Hypothesis is , that every one of these Worms includes a Lamb , yet after they are nourished and enlarged in the Belly of the Female , they soon put on the same shape .
But this is not strange , as we find by experience in a Worm or Maggot , in which , after it is come to its full growth , whither we dissect it , or examine the outside only , we find none of its parts like those of a Fly ; and that all these Creatures , a little before their Transmutation , lye as still as if they had no life in them , and a few hours after their Change they shut themselves up in a Skin or Shell , which we call a Popje or Tonneken , some of which are so thin and transparent , that I have often seen their Limbs distinctly within , and their numerous eyes , of which more hereafter .
Now if this Figure and parts of a Fly were not actually included in the Worm , such a Transmutation would have been unconceivable ; so it is also with the Creature in the Male Seed , but it is impossible for any man to penetrate into the secret parts of such a wonderful minute Animal .
If we should consider the Tail of one of those aforementioned Creatures , we must needs be astonished at the incomprehensible Number and Smallness of its Parts , especially if we conclude that such a very little Tail is provided with as many Joints in proportion as the Tails of larger Animals , otherwise it could not move nimbly on every side as it ought to do ; and again , that every one of these little Joints consists not only of Muscles , but also of Arteries and Veins , which derive the Nourishment down to it : I say , if we consider this , and the smallness of all the other parts of the Body , we cannot sufficiently admire the wonderful works of God .
In the Summer I observed the Seed of young Cocks that were not arrived at their full growth ; but I intend to enlarge my Observations before I say any thing more of that matter .
As I aim at nothing but Truth , and so far as in me lies , to correct the Errors of other men , I hope that in so doing no body will take offence , tho I freely Censure his Faults ; and if others will take the same freedom with me , and point out the Mistakes that occur in my Observations , I shall esteem it a service ; and the rather , because it is the way to attain to a greater Accuracy and Exactness in these sort of Speculations .
BbbbbbI shall I shall conclude with my earnest entreaty , that my most humble service may be presented to the Noble Members of the Royal Society , and remain Honoured Sir , Your Humble Servant , Anthony Van Leeuwenhoek .

