112 Mr. F. C. Penrose .
Some Additional group as they are seen when a 1 per cent , solution and graphite electrodes are used , and of two isolated lines which are less refrangible ; with them are compared the lines photographed from other more dilute solutions .
The sodium line 3301 appears as a long line in the 1 per cent , solution and becomes shorter as the quantity of substance is reduced .
Observations were carried as far as a solution containing 0'000001 per cent , of silicon , the two strongest lines being still visible , hut as the photographs of these more dilute solutions have been damaged by being kept so long a time in the atmosphere of the chemical laboratory , they are not now available for similar measurements .
As the sodium lines are suppressed when the silicon lines are strong , the two carbon lines are also reduced very much in length and strength .
This is very easily observed on account of the close proximity of the silicon lines , the wave-lengths of the two carbon lines being 2508T and 2511*6 ( Hartley and Adene}^ ) .
In the more dilute solution , these lines are observed to be lengthened until they become of the normal dimensions of 20/ 100ths of an inch .
It thus appears more than probable that the suppression of the sodium does not result from any chemical action within the spark discharge , such as might be supposed to occur if the sodium were dissociated from the compound , and being in contact with a silicate were to liberate silicon , or to combine with silicon directly , and in presence of water give rise to the formation of silicon hydride .
The suppression of much of the sodium spectrum , and the shortening and weakening of the carbon lines , is more likely to be a purely physical phenomenon than the result of any chemical reaction in the spark .
" Some Additional Notes on the Orientation of Greek Temples , being the Result of a Journey to Greece and Sicily in April and May , 1900 .
" By F. C. Penkose , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 17 , \#151 ; -Read February 14 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains notes on two examples from Greece and four from Sicily\#151 ; of these , three are of the nature of amplification and correction , and three are fresh cases .
( 1 .
) To the second head belongs a rude and archaic shrine in the Isle of Delos ; not improbably the most ancient existing example of a religious structure on Greek soil .
It exhibits the usual stellai connection with its orientation and an approximate date conformable with its remote antiquity ( 1530 B.C. ) .
Notes on the Orientation of Grech Temples .
113 ( 2 .
) Some further observations on the Temple of Apollo , at Delphi , of which the recent complete clearance of the site admitted of measurement with greater exactness than before .
( 3 .
) At Syracuse I found that the architecture of the temple which has been erroneously attributed to Diana , * was of a character much too archaic for the date assigned to it in that paper , which had been derived from the orientation of the axis ; but that when taken from the northern limit of the eastern opening the date would be quite consistent both with architecture and the history of the town .
( 4 .
) This led to a re-examination of the other Syracusan examples and an error was discovered , altering the orientation of the temple attributed to Minerva , and its derived date , from 815 to 550 B.C. , to its great advantage in every respect .
( 5 .
) The most interesting example , however , is from another Sicilian temple lately unearthed at Selinus .
Of this temple I found the orientation of the eastern axis to be 30 ' 22 ' north amplitude , which at- once suggests a solar temple arranged for the summer solstice , which for a level site and for the date in question , should be 30 ' 35 ' .
But the temple 's site is near the bottom of a valley ; and the sun would have to gain an altitude of rather more than two and a half degrees before it could shine into the temple ; and then the amplitude required would be 28 ' 17 ' .
Thus apart from what may be derived from the plan of the temple itself , the orientation theory would seem to show to a disadvantage .
At the same time the peculiarities of the plan of the temple would be difficult to explain without the orientation theory .
Presumably the angle upon which the lines of the temple were set out was taken from data obtained on some platform which had a level horizon , and the building was considerably advanced before the actual solstice came round and showed the error that had been made .
To meet the difficulty a naos was constructed within the flank walls , but hugging the northern one ; so that the first beam of sunrise coming through the centre of the eastern aperture , at the local amplitude of + 28 ' 17'E .
, might shine in centrally upon the statue of the deity : and for this a pedestal was provided a little northwards of the centre of the niche which had been previously formed for it .
We may notice also that the angle of the Propyleea is so placed as to keep exactly clear of the point of sunrise ( see figure , next page ) .
( 6 .
) An argument is drawn from the orientation of the foundations of a small temple lately discovered , adjoining the famous theatre at Taormina , that the theatre itself was that of the city of Naxos , which occupied the sea-coast at about 800 feet immediately below it ; and not the work of the much later town of Tauromenium , from which Taormina derives its name .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 190 , 1897 , p. 39 .
114 Additional Notes on the Orientation of Greek Tern-pies .
Fig. 1 .
-1--- SE LINUS Newly discovered Temple

