]\gt ; Capt. W. de W. Abney .
Colours of Sky Light , [ June 1 , June 1 , 1893 .
The LORD LVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the hair .
Professor Pedler ( elected 1892 ) was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President gave notice that at the next meeting of the Society hs would propose the Duke of York for election as a Fellow of the Society by immediate ballot , to which , as a Prince of the Blood Royal , His Royal Highness was entitled .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On the Colours of bky Light , Sun , Cloud and Candle Light By W. ABNEY , C.B. , D.C.L. , S. , P.R.A. .
Received lIay 9 , The author has made several comparisons of the above lights thronghout the different parts of their spectra , and has been able to verify their correctness by means of templates ting in the spectrum of tric light , as described in Part II , " " Colour Photometry 'Phil .
Trans 1889 .
It seemed , however , that it would be useful if the colours of these lights could be expressed in single wave-lengths , together with the amount of added standard white light , the latter being expressed in terms of the luminosity of the dominant colour , in lance with the method bl.ought before the Royal Society in 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc 1891 .
When measuring light from the sky , a beam from the zenith or other desired was lected through a blackened into a ened room in which the colour patch apparatus Colour Photometry Abney and Festing , 1886 ) was placed , and the .
of the end of the tube was ssed on to the front surface of a cul the front surface of was coated with ) white , its black velvet .
The patch of colour from the appttl { thS was also thrown on the cube .
A rod placed in paths of the two tlns enabled the sky light and the spcctrum coloul to be ined side by side .
The slit the spectrum as an one , so th intensity of colou within limits ; ould fall on cubc .
A beam of 1893 .
] Sun , Cloud Light , and white light reflected from the first surface of the first prism was again reflected from the surface of a thin prism on to the cube , a rod placed in its path cast a shadow on that part illuminated by the sky light , and by suitable adjustment boundaries of the two were caused to exactly coincide .
The colour was thus diluted with white light , and rotating sectors , described in other papers , placed in the of the white beam , enabled the dilution to be uJated .
Sky Light.\mdash ; On June 27 , 1892 , ab 2.30 , the sky was a good blue , but not a blue , and perhnps rather milkv .
The slit was moved into the parb spectrum which appeared to be near the dominant colour .
The colour was diluted to approximately the required amount .
The slit was shifted and the dilution altered until the colours made a perfect match .
It was found that on standard scale of the Qpectrum the dominant colour was represented by which is 4800 .
The mean value of the sector aperture was , and recollecting that the sectors are double sectors the comparison has to be made with .
The nexb operation was to compare the luminosity of the whole beam of white light with that of the colour .
The sectors still remained in the white ; the sky light was cut off , and the rod altered till colour and the white were crside each other with the boundaries of the slJadows touching .
The luminosities of the two were compared , and it was found bhnt the aperture of the sector was .
As it required of white to make the dilution of the colour , it follows that 32/ 14 , or , parts of white were required to dilute 1 part of the blue .
may be expressed thus\mdash ; ky light W. On July 4 , 189 at mid-day , same ocedurc was adopted , and the dominant wave e again 4800 .
this case the amount of added white was thus\mdash ; Sky light ; in other words , the sky was more milky .
At 4 P.1J .
on the same day the sky east , ) above the horizon , evidently slightly grecmer , and it thnt colour reed ] No. , or 48:34 , and that it parts of white to be mixed ] it .
Sky W. On other days , with the light of tbc of sky tl , of maximum polari stion the dominard fonnd be between these limits , and fonntl bluc ] .
, thd the smallest admixture of hitc 1 found to be Colours of ight , , Cloud Light , .
[ June 1 , From these measures it may be concluded that the dominant colour of a blue sky is 4800 .
Amongst artists it is not uncommon to employ cobalt to render this colour , and in many instances this is mixed with Chinese white .
The dominant colour of cobalt was found to be at scale No. 29 , or A4812 , when illuminaled by ordinary day light , wLence it seems that , as far as colour is concerned , it is ularly fit for the purpose .
light was compared in same manner , but the beam was reflected from the surface of a prism into a dark room , and again diminished in intensity by placing in its path rotating secbors wibh very narrow apertures .
Near mid-day on July 8 the sun was very clear , the sky being free from clouds , and a wind from the west .
Two separate sets of measures were made with an interval of an hour between each .
It was found that the dominant colour was 4885 in both cases , and in the first set it was diluted with of white , and in the other with of white .
indicates that sun colltains slightly more green-blue rays than the light emitted from the crater of the positive pole of the electric light .
This agrees with the spectrum measures made in " " Colour Phofometry Cloud light was next matched on days in which the sky was overcast .
A compal.ison of the general light of the zenith was all that was attempted , and near mid-day .
It was found that it of A4864 dilutod with parts of white to make a match .
It will be seen that the dominant colour of cloud light lies between of the sky and of the Sun , as might be expected , and is decidedly whiter the sky , as also be Various comparisons of sunset colours have been made , and found to range from up to ; in some cases it was necessal.y to match by means of complementary colours .
The light from a paraffin candle it was could bc very closely matched with sodium .
The equation may be essed as follows : \mdash ; Candle light The amount of added white from to , and i-t is in this part of the spectrum that a laroeo ' number of separate obse ] vatiollS are required in order to get a and fairly mean .

