]\gt ; amyl acetate lamp at 1 foot had been reached .
III .
' On cel.tain Ternary Alloys .
Part .
Determination of various Critical Curves , and their Tie-lines and Limiting Points By C. B. ALDER WRIGHT , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics in St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Received November 19 , 1891 .
The triangular method of graphical representation suggestedby Sir G. G. Stokes , and described in Part ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 49 , p. 174 ) , substantially amounts to the tracing out of a curve critical curve which shall express the saturation of the solvent with a mixture in given variable proporbions of the other two constituents , ; the variation being such that any given on the is related to some other point ( ' ' conjugate point in a way giveu by the consideration that all mixtures of the three constituenU , , represented by points lying on the line the-line joining these two conjugate ( ' ' ideal\ldquo ; alloys , or mixtures ) , will separate into two different mixtures corresponding with the two respectively ; whereas any mixbure of the same constituents , reprs sented by a point lying outside the critical curve , ] form a " " real alloy , or mixture , not separating spontaneously two different fluids but existing as a stable homogeneous whole .
The experiments described in Part unmistakably point to conclusion that whenever sufficiently intimate prolonged interm ture of the three constituents can be effected , there is no variation ever in the position of the point experimentally determined conjugate to some other given point on the curve , no matter may be the proportions subsisting between the three employed ; but that when metals are used , the practical difficulty in eifecting thorongh intermixture by stirring when moIten is occasionally so great as to lead to slight , but sensible , diiferences in the composition of the ternary alloys formed simultaneously with one given alloy approximately conjugate thereto , in different where the relative proportions of the constituents are materidlf different .
A large number of additional experiments on this point ]lave made , the general result of which is completely to corroborate IS93 .
] On certain Ternary AUoys .
373 onfirm these conclusions ; when the proportions of the constituents are such that approximatsly equal quantities of the two different ternary alloys are formed , the error due to incomplete intermixture is generally a minimum ; this obviously happens when the constituents are used in such proportions as to epresent an " " ideal\ldquo ; corresponding approximately with the central point of the tieline uniting the two conjugate points .
When , however , the proportions of the constituents differ materially these , representing an " " ideal\ldquo ; alloy considerably nearer to one conjugate point than to the other , so that one of the two ternary alloys is formed in much larger quantity than the other , the effect of incomplete intermixture becomes more marked , more especia ] when the heavier of the two alloys largely preponderates .
In cases where the critical curve is approximately symmetrical with respect to the central line of the triangle drawn from its apex perpendicular to the base , so that the " " limiting point\ldquo ; lies nsar to the apex , the minimum error due to incomplete intermixture is accordingly observed when the two immiscible metals , , are used in approximately equal quantities throughout .
If , on the other hand , the critical curve is unsymmetrical , in order to minimise the error due to imperfect intermixture ( more especially as regards those parts of the curve where the proportion of the " " solvent , is greatest ) , the other two metals , must not be used equal quantiby , but the one or the other must be in excess according as the " " limiting point\ldquo ; Iies on the right or the left-hand side of the oentral line .
Thus , as shown below , in the case of mixtures of chloroform , acetic acid , and water , , limiting point lies considerably to the left ( chloroform side ) of the central line ; similarly mixtures of lead , silver , and zinc , the limiting point is also to the left ( lead side ) of the central line .
such cases the hcavier of two immiscible constituents , ( chloroform , lead ) must be made to predominate considerably over the lighter one ( water , zinc ) , in order that aroximatey equal of tlJe two ternary mixtures may be rformed .
On the other hand , with mixtures of lead ( or bismnth ) , tin , and zinc , the limiting point lies sensibly to the right of the central line ( zinc side ) ; so that to determine as accurately as possible the positions of the coIljugate points situated towards the limiting point , zinc must be made to predominate over lead ( or bismuth ) in the mixtures employed .
The eifect of this in practice is that in order to trace out the critical curve for a given trio of metals the most expeditious way is to begin by preparing two or three mixtures with small quantities of solvent and approximately equal quantities of A and ; from the results obtained with these mixtures , represented aphically on ' triangular system , a fair idea can generally be formed as to paper .
These consideratio1ls obviously suggest the ] that , in certain cases at any rate , the mean curve values deduced in the earlier parts of this research may require some little degree of revision , inasmuch as some of the pairs of alloys simultaneously formed were from mixtures yielding one alloy in mncb larger quantity than the other ; so that so1ne smaJl amount of mental error , dne to imperfect mation of truly conjugate alloys , might exist .
Accordingly , considerable number of the experiments that might possibly be faulty from this cause have been repeated , using proportions of A and better suited to the end in view , formation of the two produced in not widely quantities relatively to one another .
Further , a variety of additioffi experiments have been made with the object of deducing the tions of pairs of conjugate points lying nearer to tlIe limiting points than those previously determined .
These there experiments , how ever , have demonstrated the existence of two other sources of error , not noticeable to so great an extent at the other parts of the critical curve .
In the first place , when an " " ideal ' ' alloy is used corresponding with a pair of conjugate points lying near to the limiting point , the two alloys formed diifer far less widely in composition than is the case with other pairs more removed from the limiting point ; conse quently , the densities of the two alloys do not greatly diifer , whioi cumstance appears greatly to impede their complets one another by gravitation whilst standing at rest Secondly , such ' ' ideal\ldquo ; alloys appear to be extremely sensitive slight differences of temperature , at least as compared with not so near the point ; so that whilst a difference of even C. makes but little difference in the compositions of tk two ternary alloys formed a given ' ideal " " alloy not near limiting point , it produces a mal.ked eifect on an " " ideal\ldquo ; alloy to that point ; in some cases , indeed , a rise of a few degrees il temperattlre will suffice to transform an " " ideal\ldquo ; alloy separating $$$f .
] On certain A lloys .
375 two ternary alloys considerably different from one into real\ldquo ; alloy not separating at all , but remaining perfectly homogeneous at this slightly higher temperature .
out of sight the pracbical impossibility of lnlng a lead-bath at C. at an absolutely constant temperature within , or ten hours together , the lowering of the temperature taking place on removing the clay test-tube from the lead-bath sometimes appears to cause a measurable amount of separation of a dilferent eavler alloy from the lighter one formed in the bath , and vice , during the short time that elapses before the mpound mass becomes solid .
So that , in fine , duplicate experiments with " " ideal\ldquo ; mixtures situated near to the limiting point are apt yield discordant results owing to one or other of these causes , or to the two combined ; and consequence the direct determination of the exact position of the limiting point is impracticable , of course its sualon call be approximately deduced from the graphical representatlon of th : results on the triangular system .
Still nearel approximations can obtained by the use of other methods kiudly suggested by Sir G. G. Stokes , and more fully described below .
The present paper deals with the results of the further experimenk made , as above stated , with the mixtul'es partly described in the previous four Parts* ( lead-tin-zinc , bismuth-tin-zinc , lead-silver-zinc , bismuth-silver-zinc , chloroform-acetic acid-water ) , for the of more completely determining the exact positions of the CI'itical curves for certain definite temperatures , and the systems of the-lines and their limiting points pert , ining to each curve respectively .
In a subse- quent paper the analogous curves will be described , ived from the combinations of lead or bismuth with zinc as , and cadmium antimony as , and with various analogous mixtures wherr aluminium takes the place of zinc .
xtures of Chloroform , Water , and Acetic The experiments described in Part continued , using ' mixtures containing more chloroform than water ( from 2 to 3 parts chloroform to 1 of water ) , and nearly , but not quite , enough acetic acid to form a homogeneous fluid , the composition required being arrived at by adding enough acetic acid to form a single fluid , and then dropping a little watel or chloroform , both , until separation ensued .
Wibh mixtures represented by points lying close to the limiting point , it was found that compal'atively slight variations in temperature produced marked alterations in the composition of the two fluids into which the mixture separated , more especially as * Part I , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 45 , p. 461 ; Part , vol. 48 , p. 25 ; Part III , vol. 49 , p. 156 ; Part IV , vol. 49 , p. 174 .
Fig. 1 represents these values , together with those described in Part , the the-lines numbered 1 to 8 being those viously described , and those marked 9 , 10 , and 11 , the above sets of average values respectively .
The line is the the-line uniti4 the two points obtained as above-mentioned with one examined at C. , obviously to a critical curve the curve for .
The point indicates a mixture of On certain Terna lloys .
form 25 per cent. , water 25 per cent. , and.acetic acid 50 per cent. , not separating into two fluids at , as previously described .
The point marked is the " " limiting point from the above figures by means of two different methods suggested by Sir G. G. Stokes .
By { he first method , the percentages of chloroform , water , and acetic acid in the heavier liquid being respectively indicated by and , and those in the lig.hter liquid by , and , the values of A-B ( positive quantities ) plotted off as abscissae to the right , and those of ( negative quantities ) to the left of the the values of ( positive ) being used utes for the first set of abscissae , and those of ( negative ) for the second set .
Fig. 2 , curve No. 1 , represenrs the plotting thus ; by joining the ends of the two tions of curve thus laid down by the doted line 11 , 11 , shown , a point , , is deduced where , dotted line cuts the base line .
This point , , corresponds with the ' limiking point where the lighter and heavier alloys merg , into one ; when the plotting is made on a sufficiently large scale , the position of and , the following values for , and result:\mdash ; 83.5 41.75 whenee 100-41 42.07 58.25\mdash ; 25.9 By the second method .
, and , havu1g tne meanings as before , two curves are plotted , each with the values of as abscissae , one with the values of : 42.25 16.25 41.50 average values for the ' limiting point\ldquo ; deduced from the wo meIhods jointly are consequently\mdash ; 1st Method .
2nd Method .
Mean .
Chloroform . .
42 .
Water . . . . . . . . . . . .
Acetic acid . . . . . . . .
41 .
Calculated .
27.36 Found .
27 But whether this is merely an accidental coincidence , or is really to a tendency to form a definite hydrate of cbloroform in presence of acetic acid , cannot be decided by these expeliments alone .
I The results with alloys subsequently described rather suggest tha only a coincidence .
A lloys of Lead , Tin , and Zinc .
In Parts I and II seven different series of observations are recorded , .
with mixtures of lead , , and zinc , at temperatures varying , from about 56 C. up to near , and containing lead and rinc in ratios varying from 2 : 1 to 1 : 2 .
On plotting these different series on the triangular system , it is evident that the Cl'itical curves deduced from those experiments where the temperature did not exceed are substantially identical , whereas that derived from experiments at a higher temperature , 750\mdash ; 850averaging near lies perceptibly inside the others .
Again , but little discordance between the general directions and degrees of slope of the the-line/ is noticed in any of the series at temperatures not above whero the ratio of lead to zinc was 1 : 1 or 1 : 2 ; with the series where this ratio was 2 : 1 , however , the upper ties do not closely coincido with those derived from the other series , but ( as pointed out by Sir G. G. Stokes , Part ) are inclined to them at angles not far from , thus indicating the existence of some cause constantly at work interfering with separation into truly conjugate alloys ; obviously this cause is the large preponderance of heavier alloy formed hter alloy , which , as above stated , produces a marked effect on the result by by stirring .
On plotting out in these seven cases the values of } ' .
abscissae , and of and as ordinates ( Stokes ' 2nd method , supra ) , similar differences are observed .
All the experiments at concord fairly well when the series where the ratio of lead to zinc was 1 : 1 or 1 : 2 are taken into account ; whereas series where the ratio was 2 : 1 exhibit a much wider departuro .
The experiments at , and the concorda1lt ones at Lead. . . . . .
21\mdash ; 23 ; say22 Tin. . . . . . .
34\mdash ; 36 , , 35 Zinc . . . . . .
42\mdash ; 44 , , 43 23\mdash ; 25 ; say24 , , 32 43-45 , critical curve for the higher temperature consequently lies inside for the lower temperature , since it contains a limiting point Dr. C. B. Alder right , with the entire Series here excess of lead used , of showing less general concordance with the average than the obviously on account of incomplete intermixture and consequent formation of alloys not so truly conjugate as in the other cases .
In a1188 compound ingots , and consequently 176 ternary alloys , were used in the deduction of the 's of conjugate points thus tabulated , so that each point represents the average of somewhat more than six alloy analyses .
Fig. 4 represents these values plotted on the triangular system .
Fig. 5 represents these values , the exterior curve indicating nnmbers above stated for temperatures near to .
The marked A and represent two mixtures examined , not into two at , although lying inside the critical curve for On applying Stokes ' 2nd Method , the curves marked No. 1 , flg .
are obtained , those marked No. 2 being the corresponding curvO deduced from the mean values at 65 above described .
] At Lead . . . . . . . .
Zinc . . . . . . . .
Tin . . . . . . . . . .
At 24.0 44.0 The points marked and ( fig. 5 ) respectively indicate these conb positions .
It is worthy of notice that in each case the ratio between lsad and zinc is not far from that indicated by the formula Found .
Calculated .
At .
At Lead. .
3529 Zinc . .
A , it would seem not impossible that the position of the limiting point might correspond with the formation of a definite compound of the two immiscible metals , soluble in the " " solvent\ldquo ; metal an extent varying with the temperature .
On the other hand , the experiments subsequently described show that when silver replaces tin as solvent metal all entirely different ratio between lead and zinc subsists at the limiting point thus found , more nearly proximating to .
Experiments now in progress , moreover , indicate that with antimony as solvent metal a third ratio , mately , is deduced .
It is further noticeable that the upper the-lines , depicted in fig. 4 ( Nos. 9 to 14 ) , visibly converge together in such fashion that point representing the composition Sn , Pb , Zn cent. lies in the midst of them all .
This configuration obviously suggests that there is a tendency to the formation of some compound , such that whilst a range in composition iz shown by the heavier alloys , a much smaller one is erved in th6 case of the lighter alloys conjugate therewith ; that this compound indicated by the formuIa is strongly suggested by the On certain Ternary 387 that in this compound the two metals are to one another nearly in the ratio of that exisling at this point\mdash ; Found .
Calculated for Tin. . . . . . . . . .
Zinc. . . . . . . . .
It will be shown in a future paper , that analogous convergent disof the lines are obserwed with other ternary metallic tnixtures , also leading to the conclusion that definite compounds are formed ; a well marked case in point is noticed with alloys of lead , tinc , and cadmium , where a marked convergence is observable to a int where the admium and lead are in the ratio indicated by the formula of Bismuth , Tin , and Zinc .
The experiments described in Part III , when plotted on the triangnlar system , indicate that the point in the critical curve mixtures of bismuth , tin , and zinc is sittlated to the right ( zinc side ) of the central line of the triangle ; so that in order to determine , .
with the least amount of error through imperfect intermixture , the Qnjngate points situated near the limiting point , the mixtures used mnst contain more zinc than bismuth .
Accordingly a number of dRitional experiments were made with mixtures bismuth zinc in the proportion 1 : to 1 : , and from 12 to 21 per cent. of tin .
The figures thus obtained showed that some of the compound ingots previously examined ( prepared with equal quantities of bismuth and were slightly but sensibly affected by the error due incomplete intermixture , owing to the preponderance of heavier alloy formed over the hghter one .
The following table exhibits the avoragevalues finally deduced from these further experiments , together with those of the former series not materially affected by this source error , at temperatures averaging near to 65 C. It is noticeable that these further experiments show that the numerical value of the 9X06SS of tin percentage in the lighter alloy over that in the heavier a maximum ( of negative sign ) , and then diminishes agaln ; point not shown by the less complete series of values described in Pat IIL -rig .
7 , curve No. 1 , represents these values , No. 2 representing the amlogous figures obtained at 700\mdash ; 800Series Part .
Obviously the urve for the higher temperature lies inside that for the lower temperature , as in the case of the lead-zinc-tin alloys abnve described .
The point marked A represents .
mixture not sepa- lating into two at real\ldquo ; ; that marked , a similrr ixture , not separating at ; these contained respectively of analyses of both ends):\mdash ; On certain Ternary Alloys .
A. B. Bismuth . . . . . . . . . .
Zinc. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tin . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The point evidently falls well outside the critical curwe for 1though it is not distinctly outside that for On applying Stokes ' second system to the above values , the following figures result from a large-scale ting : ; whence the compositiou for the point , Bismuth . . . . . . . . . .
Zinc. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tin . . . . . . . . . . . . .
hese percentages of bismuth and zinc are not far from those reupper part of the curve in the same marked way as is noticeable at the lower part thereof .
It is remarkable in this connexion that the upper ties with alloys of lead and zinc , when tin is the solvent metal , are the only ones sloping downwards to the right , those with lead and zinc when silver , cadmium , or antimony is the meta ] , uniformly sloping downwards to the left .
Precisely the sams remarks apply to the corresponding alloys containing alumimum instead of zinc so far as at present examined .
, Zn The position of the limiting point is found by a large .
plotting on Stokes ' second system to correspond with the values:\mdash ; 96.4 whence the composition at the limiting point is:\mdash ; Lead 6.3 Silver It is noteworthy ratio between lead and zinc at the limiting point thus found with silver as the " " solvent\ldquo ; metal , is different from that deduced above when tin is the solvent ; lvith tin , the ratio corresponds pretty closely with that indicated by the formuh , where , as with silver it corresponds more nearly with Pb , Zn .
culated .
Found .
Pb . . . . . . . . . .
Zn . . . . . . . . . .
The dotted line , Il , III at the lower portions of the critiod curve represent the values described in Series , II , and III tively ( Part II ) , and indicate very clearly the effect produced by th formation of the definitc compound , and its gradual ehminatioa as previously described .
Similarly , the effect of the formation of the compound is , visible in the right-hand branch of curve ; the conjugate } ) oint is obviously cIose to an angle ir the and represe1lts an alloy containing silver and zino iu proportions and .
or almost exactly Silve ] ) Lead . . . . . . .
) curve , mation onwards a urve f lead and silvel .
as ' solvent ' metal lies On certain Ternary Alloys .
393 with bismuth-zinc-silver and -zinc-tin curves .
tin solvent .
As show1l below , the same relationship also Allof Bismuth , Silver , and Zinc .
The experiments described in Part III show that with bismuthsilver alloys , as with those of lead-zinc-silver , the position of ie limiting point lies to the left bismuth of the central line .
ordingly , a number of additional experiments were made with dlver percentages upwards of twenty , and with zinc and bismuth in the proportions 1 to 1 : , so as to deduce more accurately and letely the upper portion of the critical curve , only those points being -valned where the influence of the formation of the compound had become inappreciable .
The following table exhibits the average resuIts thus obtained , together with those described in Series I ( Part II ) , the temperature throughout being , averaging near to 750 ; twenty-four omnpound ingots in being employed , representing forty-eight mary alloys .
Pig .
9 represents these results on the triangular system , the position of the limiting point being thence deduced by Stokes ' second nystem , a large-soule plotting giving the : \mdash ; 66.25 44.5 ; whence the composition at the limiting point Calculated .
Bismutl ] Zinc . . . . . . .
Found .
59.82 40.18 The dotted lines I and II at the basc of the critical curve represent resI)ectively the values given in Series I ( Part III ) , obtained by fusion for eight hours , and in Series and III , obtained by further fusion of the lighter and heavier alloys thus .
Lik for bismuth-zinc-silver lies outside that for bismuth-zinc-tin the curvefor lead-zinc-silver lies outside that for lead-zinc-tin .
WMh silver as " " solvent\ldquo ; metal the limiting point lies to the left of ntral line of the triangle ( bismuth 01 lead side ) ; whilst with solvent metal it lies to the right ( zinc side ) .
In the first case tblties uniformly slope downwards to the left , and in the second , to the 8$Wng the existence of a tendency to form a definite compound of lead and tin possibly ) , no analogous tendency being noticeable with bismuth and tin .
The author has much pleasure in acknowledging the assistance afforded him by Mr. Sydney Joyoe in carrying out the furthel experiments above described .
IV .
' Note on some Specimens of Rock which have been exposed to High Temperatures By Professor T. G. BONNEy , D.Sc .
, .D .
, F.R.S. Received December 18 , 189 ] .

