4 .
" On the Theory of Waves .
" By Andrew John Robertson , .
Esq. Communicated by the Rev. Henry Moseley , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. .
Received September 6 , 1852. .
The author remarks that in the seventh volume of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions , Mr. Earnshaw has a paper on the Mathematical Theory of the Waves of Translation , and that the objection to the theory therein given has been pointed out by Professor Stokes in a Report to the British Association , namely , that it requires a mathematically sudden generation and , destruction of motion .
Previously to his having an opportunity of reading Mr. Earnshaw 's paper he had considered the subject in a manner entirely different ( Phil. Mag. Dec. 1850 , March 1851 ) .
The analysis he then employed was not however such as to lead , to results sufficiently general , and he has in consequence now employed a higher analysis , in the application of which he acknowledges himself indebted to Mr.i ; Earnshaw 's paper for considerable assistance .
Taking the results deduced by Mr Scott Russell from his experimental inquiry , as the basis of his investigation , the author assumes , -1st , that the horizontal motion , produced by the passage of a wave , in every particle of any vertical column is ' the same ; andi 2nd , that the velocity of transmission is uniform .
On these principles he deduces the value of c , the velocity of transmission , c=(h+2k)~/ / g in which his the depth of the undisturbed water ; 2k is the height of a positive and the depth of a negative wave ; and g the accelerating force of gravity .
Hence .
it appears that the velocity is greater for a positive than for a negative wave in the same channel .
Comparing this result with Mr. Scott Russell 's experiments , it appears that on fourteen experiments of positive waves , the total error is 3 , per cent. on the sum of all the velocities ; and that on sixteen experiments of negative waves , the error is scarcely 2 per cent. , on the sum of all the velocities .
The author infers that it may therefore be safely considered that the experiments bear out the theory , which shows that the positive and negative waves are phenomena of the same class , and not distinct , as maintained by Mr. Scott Russell and Mr. Earnshaw .
The next point considered is the horizontal motion of the individual particles occasioned by the passage of a wave .
It is showni : that the velocity of any particle is shown by the equation 2k uh +2k sin9q(ct-- ) , k+2k 1 g. : in which / ( 2(h+k)hh ) 2 ) At the crest of the wave this becomes + c+2k ; and when the height of the wave is equal to the depth of the water , the velocity is C 2 , or half the velocity of the wave itself .
In a negative wave the motion of the particles is in the direction opposite to that in which the wave is moving .
According to Mr. Scott Russell 's observations , a wave breaks when its height is equal to the depth of water , but the author considers that Mr. Russell did not succeed in producing a wave of a cusped form at once , and that it assumed that form and broke only when it travelled up a channel with a rising bottom .
He further observes , that at the commencement and termination of the motion , the direction of the particle is vertical ; under the crest of the wave it is horizontal ; and that the path has an oval form , but evidently not an ellipse .
He next deduces X , the length of a wave , in terms ; of T , the period of the wave , or the time which elapses from the ; commencement to the termination of the motion of a particle , viz. X=cTV/ h+2k ; on which equation he remarks , that setting aside the variation caused by a change in the value of k , both in that of c and in the radical , the length of the wave varies directly as T ; and that we have thus an explanation of the observed fact , that a wave becomes gradually diminished in height and increased in length .
The author then enters on the subject of Oscillating Waves .
He remarks that , in the wave of translation , it appears from the preceding investigation , that the horizontal and vertical motions of the particles commence and terminate together ; and that consequently the par^ ticles left at rest when the wave has passed must continue in the same state , unless some fresh disturbance again set them in ' motion .
But if the vertical motion were at its greatest when the horizontal motion was destroyed , the particles would oscillate in both directions , and a disturbance once given would continue until friction ori external force destroyed it .
He further observes , that it has been shown by Mr. Airy ( Encyc .
Metrop .
) that the motion of the particles in , oscillating waves diminishes in a geometrical ratio as their , distance below the surface increases , which result agrees with Mr. Scott Russell 's observations ; but that it is interesting to examine whether a series of oscillatory waves can exist in a channel of uniform breadth and depth , upon the supposition that the horizontal excursion of the particles , is the same from the top to the bottom .
From the analytical investigation of the author , it appears that there can exist in a channel of uniform breadth and depth a series of waves of the same magnitude and moving:with the same velocity .
In the case of rivers , the tide-wave appears to be of this description .
If the effect of friction on the bottom be neglected , the horizontal velocity of the particles may be cnsidered to be the same throughout the whole depth--and the motion is oscillatory , if that due to the stream be separated .
But the length of the wave is very great in comparison with the depth , and the vertical motion is so slight , that it may be neglected altogether .
On this supposition , which simplifies the investigation , the velocity for a wave of translation is ( h + 2k)/ g and for an oscillating wave is ( h+Ik ) / 9 ; which differ but little from the results previously obtained , and are rather in excess , as was to be expected , when no part of the force has been expended in producing vertical motion .
Referring to the solution of this problem , given by Mr. Airy in the Encyclopeedia Metropolitana , and the equation there arrived at , the author states that it is with great diffidence , and not until after the most careful examination , that he ventures to question the accuracy of this result .
In a further investigation , he points out the source of this inaccuracy ; and in conclusion observes , that it must be confessed to be unsatisfactory to point out an error without supplying the deficiency caused by it , but that the analytical difficulties air such , that he cannot , consistently with the attention required by other avocations , attempt , for the present at least , to continue an investigation which is interesting as a matter of science and useful in its application to hydraulic engineering .

