The Kinetic Theory of Planetary Atmospheres .
" The Kinetic Theory of Planetary Atmospheres .
" By G. H. Bkyan , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received March 15 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The application of the kinetic theory to the atmospheres of planets dates from the paper of Waterston , who gave an investigation based on the then only possible assumption of equal velocities for all molecules , an assumption since known as Clausius ' law .
Of later papers reference is due in especial to Dr. Johnstone Stoney 's memoir " Of Atmospheres on Planets and Satellites , " * in which the test of permanence of a gas in the atmosphere of a planet is made to depend on the ratio of its velocity of mean square to that relative velocity which would enable a suitably projected body to escape from the planet 's attraction .
If it be admitted , as Dr. Stony assumes , that helium cannot exist in our atmosphere , it follows that vapour of water cannot exist on Mars .
The author 's object has been to investigate the logical conclusions obtained by applying the Boltzmann-Maxwell distribution to the atmospheres of planets .
In 1893 calculations were made , having special reference to the absence of atmosphere from the Moon , but these took no account of axial rotation .
When this cause is taken into account , the distribution of co-ordinates and relative velocities of the molecules is found to be the same as if the planet were at rest , and " centrifugal force " applied to the system .
The surfaces of equal density are of the forms originally investigated by Edward Roche , of Montpellier , and they cease to be closed surfaces when passing to the outside of the point on the equatorial plane where centrifugal force just balances the planet 's attraction .
Calling the surface through this point the " critical surface , " the density of molecular distribution over this surface must be very small to ensure permanence .
The ratio of the density at the planet 's surface to the density at the critical surface has been called the " critical density ratio , " and the author calculates its logarithm for particular gases at different temperatures on the various planets .
The use of this logarithm has the advantage that the calculation can at once be extended to any gas at any temperature .
The high value obtained in the case of helium considered in reference to the earth , appears to afford abundant proof that if helium existed in our atmosphere it would possess a very high degree of permanence at ordinary temperatures .
To test this point further , a calculation is made of the total rate at which molecules would flow across the critical surface , this rate being regarded as a superior limit to the * ' Trans. E. Dublin Soc. ' 336 Combinatorial Analysis.\#151 ; The Foundations of a New Theory rate at which the planet would lose its atmosphere , since it takes no account of molecule 's which describe free paths beyond the limit and fall back again .
To further exhibit the results in a tangible form the rate of flow is estimated by the number of years in which the total amount of gas escaping across the critical surface would be equal to the amount of the gas in a layer covering the surface of the planet to the depth of 1 cm .
This measure is independent of the actual quantity of the gas under consideration existing in the atmosphere , since , if this quantity be increased , the rate of flow across the .critical surface and the amount of gas present in the surface layer 1 cm .
thick will be increased in the same proportion .
If a gas of molecular weight 2 , such as helium , be supposed to exist in the earth 's atmosphere , the loss in question would occupy 3*5 x 1036 years at - 73 ' C. , 3 x 1019 years at 27 ' , 8*4 x 1010 years at 127 ' C. , \#163 ; x 105 years at 227 ' C. , and 222 years at 327 ' C. If we halve the absolute temperatures we have the conditions applicable to hydrogen , the losses in question therefore taking place in 8-4 x 1010 years at -73 ' C. , 6 x 105 years at - 23 ' C. , and 222 years at 27 ' C. For water vapour on Mars , the corresponding results are 1*2 x 1033 years at - 73 ' , 1-9 x 1016 years at 27 ' , 2-4 x 109 years at 127 ' , 4*3 x 105 years at 227 ' and 106 years at 327 ' .
These figures indicate that helium cannot practically escape from our atmosphere at existing temperatures , nor can vapour of water escape from the atmosphere of Mars .
A leakage may and undoubtedly does take place which may appear considerable when estimated by the number of actual molecules escaping , but it is wholly inappreciable relative to the mass of gas left behind .
At a future time I propose to examine the corresponding results , based on the hypothesis that the atmosphere of a planet is distributed according to the adiabatic instead of the isothermal law .
\#166 ; " Combinatorial Analysis.\#151 ; The Foundations of a New Theory .
" By Major P. A. MacMahon , K.A. , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
Eeceived March 19 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the paper is to exhibit the processes of the infinitesimal calculus and of the calculus of finite differences as combinatorial processes .
A large class of problems can be dealt with by designing on the one hand a function , and on the other hand an operation , in such wise that when the operation is performed upon the function a

