464 Lord Rayleigh .
Sensibility of the [ Nov. 26 , colour-blindness there are several misapprehensions of what the trichomatic theory can or cannot explain .
One very glaring misapprehension is that this theory cannot explain the matching of a bluish green by a mixture of red and blue .
This is one of the most easy matches to make by the green-blind , for the green of the normal spectrum curves is absent to the green-blind , and the overlapping curves at this point are red and blue ( see S.S.N. 34 , Table I , which is a blue-green ) .
Hence a mixture of red and blue to the green-blind will match what is blue-green to normal vision .
There are other points on which there are misapprehensions , and they will be dealt with in another communication which I propose to offer .
On the Sensibility of the Eye to Variations of Wave-length in the Yellow Region of the Spectrum .
By Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. ( Received November 26 , \#151 ; Read December 8 , 1910 .
) Dr. Edridge-G-reen* has introduced a method of classifying colour-vision by determining the number of separate parts or divisions in the spectrum within each of which the observer can perceive no colour difference .
Movable screens are provided in the focal plane of the spectroscopic telescope , by which the part admitted to the eye is limited and the limits measured in terms of wave-length .
Beginning at the extreme visible red , more and more of the spectrum is admitted until a change of colour ( not merely of brightness ) is just perceptible .
This gives the first division .
The second division starts from the place just determined , and is limited in the direction of shorter wave-length by the same condition .
In this way the whole spectrum is divided into a number of contiguous divisions , or patches , which Dr. Edridge-Green terms monochromatic .
It will be observed that the delimitation of these patches includes an arbitrary element depending on the point from which the start is made\#151 ; in this case the extreme red .
" Tested with this instrument a normal individual will , as a rule , name six distinct colours ( viz. , red , orange , yellow , green , blue , violet ) , and will mark out by means of the shutters about 18 monochromatic patches .
Occasionally we come across individuals with a greater power of differentiating hues , to whom , as to Newton , there is a distinct colour between the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1910 , vol. 82 , p. 458 , and earlier writings .
1910 .
] Eye to Variations of Wave-length .
blue and violet , which Newton called indigo .
Such individuals will mark out a greater number of monochromatic patches , from 22 up to 29 .
The limited number of monochromatic patches which can be marked out in this way is at first surprising when we consider how insensibly one part of the spectrum seems to shade into the next when the whole of the spectrum is looked at .
The number and position of the patches present , however , great uniformity from one case to another .
" Being curious to know into what class my own vision would fall on this system , I was glad to be tested by Dr. Edridge-Green last July .
The number of patches proved to be 17 , a little short of the number he lays down in the passage above quoted as normal .
The slight deficiency appears to be in the high violet .
I have known for some years that I required more light in the violet to measure interference-rings than did my assistant , Mr. Enock , and that the deficiency of sensibility was greatest for my right eye , used with Dr. Green 's apparatus .
The limits of the actual patches were as follows :\#151 ; .
780\#151 ; 635-|\#151 ; 624\#151 ; 612\#151 ; 603\#151 ; 595\#151 ; 586\#151 ; 576\#151 ; 560\#151 ; 541\#151 ; 521\#151 ; 509\#151 ; 500\#151 ; 489-1\#151 ; 477\#151 ; 462\#151 ; 443\#151 ; 426 .
Thus in the region of the D lines a patch including wave-lengths between 595 and 586 did not manifest a difference of colour .
The interval between the D lines on the above scale being 0'60 , it appears that my " monochromatic patch " was 15 times this interval .
While it is undoubtedly true that in this way of working no colour-difference was perceptible as the eye travelled backwards and forwards over the patch , my experience with colour discs and other colour-mixing arrangements made me feel certain that under more favourable conditions I could discriminate much smaller differences of wave-length .
Special experiments have since proved that I can in fact discriminate by colour between points in the spectrum as close together as the two D lines .
In order to compare two colours with advantage it is necessary that each should extend with uniformity over a considerable angular area , and that the two areas should be in close juxtaposition .
The requirements of the case are sufficiently met by a colour-box ( after Maxwell ) such as I described nearly 30 years ago.* In this form of apparatus a second slit , placed at the focus , allows a narrow width of the spectrum to pass ; but instead of regarding the transmitted portion with an eyepiece , the eye is brought close to the slit and focussed upon the prism , which thus appears uniformly lighted with such rays as the second slit allows to pass .
The light thus * 'Nature , ' 1881 , vol. 25 , pp. 64\#151 ; 66 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 543 .
See also 'Nature , ' August 18 , 1910 .
Lord Rayleigh .
Sensibility of the [ Nov. 26 , presented is of course not absolutely homogeneous ; it includes a mixture of neighbouring spectrum rays , the degree of purity augmenting as the slits are narrowed .
With the aid of a refracting prism of small angle ( set perpendicularly to the dispersing prisms ) the field of view is divided into two parts which correspond to any desired colours according to the situation of the two primary slits .
For the present purpose these primary slits lie nearly in one straight line , inasmuch as the two spectrum colours to be compared are close together .
A detail of some importance in delicate work may here be mentioned .
It is known that in many cases , e.g. in lantern projection , the spectrum lines corresponding to a straight primary slit are sensibly curved .
Mr. Madan proposed many years ago to cure this defect by counter-curving the primary slit .
In the kind of instrument under discussion it is desirable to retain straight primary slits , but there is nothing to forbid curvature of the second or eye slit , which is a fixture , and such curvature is necessary for the most effective working .
A deficiency in this respect , or in focussing , may entail objectionable changes of colour as the eye moves about behind .its slit .
The simplest way of making the adjustment is to illuminate a somewhat narrow primary slit with soda light and to fit the jaws of the secondary slit to the image thus obtained and examined with a lens as eyepiece .
In making the observations on sensitiveness , one primary slit , as well as the eye-slit , remains fixed , the position being chosen so as to provide yellow light from the neighbourhood of D. The second slit can be moved as a whole while retaining its width .
The shutters necessary were cut from thin zinc sheet and were held by sealing or soft wax , in a manner which need not be minutely described .
The movements of the shutter which carries the second slit were measured by callipers .
The procedure is quite simple .
If the colours seen are strongly contrasted , the movable slit is displaced until the difference is moderate .
Marks may then be given ; 0 , denoting that the difference is uncertain ; Ri , that it is just distinct in the direction of making the second patch the redder ; Gi , that it is just distinct in the opposite direction .
Similarly , R2 , G2 , denote differences in the two directions which are more than distinct , and so on .
After each observation worth recording , the position of the movable slit is measured .
One further precaution ought to be mentioned .
In making a decision when the difference of colour is slight , care should be taken that the brightnesses are nearly equal .
When , as in my experiments , daylight is employed , the passage of clouds may cause a disturbance in this respect , even if the two primary slits are of equal width .
The interposition of a 1910 .
] Eye to Variations of Wave-length .
467 piece of ground glass a little behind the primary slits is usually a remedy .
But this reduces the illumination , and it is sometimes preferable to adjust the brightness otherwise .
It may be done conveniently by cutting off some of the light on the preponderating side by the interposition of one or more strips of glass held at varying angles of obliquity .
In this manner , as the result of sets of observations made on several days , it was found that a movement of the second slit through 0T5 mm. was sufficient to carry the variable colour from being distinctly redder than the standard to distinctly greener .
Ho doubt the result might have been arrived at quicker with a more refined apparatus , in which the movements of the slit were controlled and measured by a micrometer screw , but I do not think it would be any more certain .
Probably the distance is something of an over-estimate .
In several of the measurements included , the distinctness of the difference was unnecessarily pronounced .
We may conclude that the eye is capable of appreciating without fail a- difference of situation represented by 007 mm. It remains to interpret the result in terms of wave-lengths .
By allowing light to enter at the eye-slit , or rather at a narrower slit superposed upon it , a spectrum is formed at the other end whose scale has to be determined .
It appeared that the distance from D to E was 7 mm. The difference of wave-length between these lines is 62'3 .
The perceptible difference is 1/ 100 of this , corresponding nearly enough to the difference between the I ) lines .
I think I am safe in saying that I could distinguish the colours of the two D lines if favourably presented to the eye .
This degree of sensitiveness , though not higher than I had expected , is a little difficult to reconcile with the monochromatic appearance of a portion of the spectrum 15 times wider .
I suppose that the gradual character of the transition is an obstacle to the recognition of differences .
The question of angular magnitude may also enter .
Ho doubt a very small apparent magnitude would be unfavourable .
It is possible that in Dr. Green 's apparatus an eyepiece of higher power , with a corresponding augmentation in the intrinsic brilliancy of the source of light , would allow of an increase in the number of distinguishable patches .
The experiment would be worth a trial .
It will be seen that the existence of " monochromatic patches " in the spectrum is far from meaning that the eye is incapable of making chromatic distinctions within their range .
I do not infer from this that the results of the method are without significance .
Undoubtedly it is possible by means of it to classify col our-vision , and such a classification cannot be without interest , even if we fail as yet to understand exactly what it means .
468 Sensibility of the Eye to Variations Wave-length .
In conclusion , I will remark that those who lay great stress upon the number of principal colours recognised by any particular eye seem to me to overlook too much the colours not represented in the spectrum .
To most of us white is a sensation quite as distinct from any other as yellow can be .
In my estimation purple has a better claim than orange to be reckoned a principal colour .
The fact , too , that dark orange reveals its character so little as to be called by another name ( brown ) seems to indicate that these distinctions are not of fundamental importance .
On the Determination of the Chief Correlations Collaterals in the Case of a Simple Population Mating at Random .
By E. C. Snow , B.A. , Biometric Laboratory , University College , London .
[ This paper is published in ' Proceedings , ' Series B , vol. 83 , pp. 37 55 .
]

