]\gt ; The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 20 , solution either floating in the air and waiting to enter as soon as it uncovered , or lying concealed in ths oils , ether , and other bodies which I regarded as nuclei .
The varied behaviour of oils under ferent conditions , as pointed out in my second memoir* , has not been attended to ; and in many experiments in the hands of others oils have been inactive , it has been denied that oils have any action at all on these solutions .
I confess that I was not able to reconcile the results as stated by my opponents with my own resuIts , until within the last few months , when I set to work to repeat Professor Grenfell 's ments , during which it became plain to me , what I had not beforo suspected , that the hygrometric condition of the air has a powerful influence on these solutions ; so that under one set of conditions bodies may act as nuclei , while under another set they may be inactive , as in the case already cited , where sodic acetate solution by exposure during damp weather becomes inert even to a crystal of the salt itself .
But the exact determination of these conditions can only be settled by a further long and laborious experimental investigation upon which I am now engaged .
II .
" " Notes on Physical Geology.\mdash ; No. III .
On a new Method of finding Limits to the Duration of certain Geological Period By the Rev. SAMUEL HAUGHTON , M.D. Dubl .
, D.C.L. Oxon .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin .
Received October 1877 .
In the preceding Note I have proved that the tion of Asia and Europe displaced the axis maximum inertia through 69 miles , in tbs direction of the meridian of the Andes , away from Greenwich .
The axis of rotation being thus separated from the axis of figure by G9 miles , or , commenced to revolve uniformly on a right cone round the axis of figure , and would continue to do so for ever , if not prevented by friction .
Astronomers agreed that the motion of the pole at present is secular and very slow , all traces of wabbling used by the tion of Asia and Europe having disappeared .
The obiect of the present note is to discuss the motion of the of rotation , from the period of the elevation of the continent until ( by reason of friction ) the of rotation gain to coincide 11 ith the axis of figure ; and , if possib ] , to calculate bsolute length of time that elapsed from the epoch of elevation .
Phil. ) . .
Sce also .
Roy .
Soc. lS73 , It is stated , in error , as 207 lniles in Note II .
( 6upra , .
All the displacements are inted thrce their proper values , because , th.ghidverfence , in integraling equation ( 8 ) , Note I. page 53 , I forgot to divide the nuuleric{l coefficienb by 3 .
error ffiects all uent cficic t 1877 .
] The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
The equations of motion , . . .
( 1 ) where moment of inertia round equatorial axis , , , , , , , polar components of rotation round the axes inside the earth , couples of acting round axes First ) Let there be no forces , then ( 2 ) If we assume will be the total equatori ] of will be the angle made by the meridian of the of ion , meridian supposed fixed in the the new variables , find Integrating , we obtain const .
where are the initial lues of , and C-A . . .
( 4 ) ; or , substituting for , their values in I. p. 5 The preceding th otion of axis is uniform , that it 011 he face ( The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 20 , axis is the new axis of maximum inertia , and that this motion by which the pole revolves uniformly on a circle of 138 miles diameter , completing each revolution in days , will continue for ever unless stopped by friction .
In one day the pole moves through mile ; but while the solid globe ( supposed rigid ) revolves round each instantaneous axis in sion , it is not so with the ocean , which tends to revolve round yesterday 's axis until compelled to revolve round today 's axis by the friction of the ocean against its sea-bed .
This friction may be thus taken account of .
Second Approxim In the accompanying figure , let OC be the new axis of figure , OA , , the fixed meridian from which the angle is measured , Oy , , yesterday 's axis of rotation , Ot , , today 's axis of rotation , Oy ' , , the proiection of yesterday 's axis on the equator of figure , Ot ' , , the projection of today 's axis on the equator of figure , , , the day 's path of the pole , Oy'/ , , drawn right angles to , , drawn at right angles to Ot ' , daily angle described on the surface of the cone .
It is ident Oy'/ is perpendicular to the meridi ( yesterday 's ) , and that is perpendicular to the meridiau COt ' ( today 's ) .
1877 .
] The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
If be the angle of separation even the axes of rotntion and figure , or semiangle of the cone , The solid earth es with an angular velocity , , round Obt ( today 's axis ) , while the ocetul revolves the same rotation round Oay ( yesterday 's axis ) .
Let be a coefficient depellding on the friction veen the ocean and its bed , and such that , if the ocean be moving to the earth with any angular velocity , angular velocitycouple produced . . . . .
( 5 ) Resolving the angular velocity of the ocean round ( yesterday 's axis ) into its components , find the frictional couples ( 1 ) Round OC Round Oy ' Resolvin the latter into its components , find ( 2 ) ( 3 ) Bound Ot ' .
1 .
The component of the ocean tion r OC being the as that of the solid earth ( for } ' axes at the same distance from the axis of figure ) , there is no frictional couple eloped round OC .
2 .
The frictional couple round Ot ' }.oduces its full effect , for there is no rotation of the solid earth this 3 .
The rotation of the solid earth Ot ' is the component of the oceall rotation fnlls hhort of this ) the ] antity Hence we a couple round this , retsrding the equatorial rotation and equal to The frictilolmd f is much than that round Ot ' ; wherefore , ] the latter for the ) , and ing the couple round Ot''round he axes jllld , we v.riliug The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 20 , The general equations ( 1 ) become , therefore , \mdash ; Fp -Fp , ( 6 ) Iransforming into , we find , after some reductions , \mdash ; Fp , ( 7 ) Integratin these equations , and making vanish together , we obtain , as a second approximation to the motion of the pole , ( 8 ) These equations show that a secondary wabble of half the period of the primary wabble is superadded to the motion of the pole , which continues to revolve round the axis of figure in days , with the component of rotation round that axis always constant ; while the equatorial component has a periodic variation passing through all its changes in days ; and the velocity of revolution of the primary wabble is not uniform , but also subject to a periodic variation of days , because and pass through all their changes in half a reyolution .
These results are independent of the magnitude of , and would hold true even if that coefficient were large , which it is not .
The motion of the pole would continue for ever , compounded of the primary and secondary wabbles ; and in order to obtain the effects of friction in destroying both motions , it becomes necessary to proceed to the third approximation .
Third mation .
We must now introduce into the equatiollS of motion the fricfional couple acting round the axis Ot ' , sin Writing for its value , we find .
( 9 ) 1877 .
] The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geo Togy .
These equations may be transformed , after some reductions , into the following : Ad ( 10 ) The second and third of these equations are the same as the second and third of ( 7 ) , and first may be integrated as follows:\mdash ; The sum of , taken through an entire circumference , is Hence , if we assume the value of to remain constant during a single wabble , and then to change by a small quantity , ining constant for the next abble , and so on ; if be the successive alues of , we have , since the periodic term siu destroys itself , ' and , in general , or , . . .
( 11 ) The equatorial component reforo dinishes in geometrical , and finally ) tho earth 's rotation round the of ligure OC eqnal to If we know the of ou tho are now prepared to from ( 11 ) it old t to reducs to The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 20 , Suppose then or . . . . . .
( 12 ) This equation determines , the number of wabbles necessttry to reduce to , where supposed to be a given quantity .
Let us now proceed to calculate the coefficient of friction from the retardation of the earth 's angular velocity by the friction of the Tidal Residual Current .
This retardation amounts to one second in the length of the day in 100,000 years * .
The accompanying figure shows Newton 's construction for the disturbin forcs of the moon upon the .
The moon lies in the direction , and the stance of the moon from the earth represents the attraction of the earth at the distance of the moon .
The disturbing force is Be , if .
Let , then the component of the disturbing force is BC Tangential force . . . . . .
( 13 ) The relative velocity of the tide is thus found , DeIaunay , 'Sur le ralentissement du mouvement de rotation de la Terre ' ( Paris , 1866 ) .
1877 .
] The Rev. S. hton on Physical Geology .
If be the angular velocity of the earth 's l.otation , and .
( 14 ) Bememberin that the earth 's attraction upon the moon is per sec. , we have .
per sec. If AC be the lin the cnrth nloon , the relative velocit .
of the tide will be points ximum esterly city will occur at A and , and { he imum at and .
If .
were these velocities be and opposite , and the earth 's rotation would not be affected by them ; or , in other there would be no Residual Tidal Currcnt ; but since in reality the axlS BD exceeds the axis AC by feet , { he greatest early velocities will exceed the result a balance of tidal current retarding the 's rotalion !
nd lengthemug the day .
If denote the lesser and grcater of the disturbed water surface , and ' From to , and to , the water is mot fastel than the earth , to , and from to the water is slower the The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 20 , we shall have Maximum Westerly Current at and Maximum Easterly Current at A and Difference From ( 14 ) we have , ; but , . . . .
( 15 ) therefore This is to be integrated all round the circumference , in which process the periodic terms disappear , and we find ; and , finally , .
( 16 ) The mean radius of the earth is 3958 miles ; say 21 million ft. ; hence , assuming ; therefore Residual Iidal Current .
per second .
The angular velocity of the Residual Current will therefore be The retaldation of velooity caused by friction is equal to , ( 5 ) or 1877 .
] The Rev. S. on Physical Geology .
This retardation ( according to Adams and Delaunay ) amounts to second in the length of the during 100000 years ; hence we obtain the equation to determine the value of :\mdash ; Hence , finally , ' which gives . . . . .
( 17 ) We have already defined .
But is the daily change of angle in the position of the axis of rotation , , and is equal to Hence which gives We are now in a condition to apply tion ( to determine how long it would take to destroy a bble of C9 luilcs , if suddenly produced .
Our astronomical instrnments are now so perfect an nnual displacemeut of 10 .
in the polo could be detected .
old correspond with a radius of 5 of 1niles , for our abble .
Hence Hence bbles , yenrs , years .
The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ Dec. 20 , From the precedin investigation it appears , if Asia and Europs were manufactured , per saltum , causing a sudden displacement of the axis of figure through 69 miles , that this event cannot have happened at an epoch less than 641,000 before the present time , and that this event may have occurred at an epoch much more remote .
It is highly improbable that the elevation of the nummulitic limestoJle took place so rapidly ; and I shall therefore discuss several cases of supposed slower elevation .
1 .
Let the displacement of the axis of figure caused by the manufacture of Asia and Europe have been due to 69 geological convulsions , each of which displaced the axis of figure through one mile , and let the radius of the wabble be reduced from olte mile to 5 feet in the interval veen each two successive convulsions .
From equation ( 12 ) we have The interval between two successive convulsions wabbles , years .
Total time in the manufacture of Asia and Europe years ; say , million years .
From this it also appears that no geological change , alterin the position of the axis of figure through ome mile , oan havs taken place within the past 400,000 years .
2 .
Let us suppose that the Earth 's wabble has the minimum observable dius of 5 , and that geological changes take place at such a rate that the of this radius is exactly destroyed by friction during each wabble , so the radius of 5 .
continues constant .
We now have where is the displacement of the axis of figure during 305 days , Equation ( 12 ) becomes or 1877 .
] The Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geo logy .
At this rate of geological change the total time required for the manufacture of Asia and Europe would be wabbles , million years .
Assuming the minor limit of the epoch of the elevation of the nummulitic limestone to be 640,000 , we can assign an approximate minor limit to the whole period during which stratified rocks have been forming on the surface of the globe , assuming the rate of deposition to have been , on the whole , constant .
The following Table gives the approximate thickness of the eIffi geological strata in Europe:\mdash ; feet .
1 .
EOZOIC 26,000 2 .
LOWER er Silurian . . . . . . . .
20-,000 Upper Silurian . . . . . . . .
5,500 3 .
UPPER PALBiOZOIC . . . . .
2,200 Jurttsble . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 .
NEOZOIC . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crctaceous . . . . . . . . . .
11,283 litic .
3,000 . . . . . . . . .
The proportion which the total thicknebs of )carb to of the Tertiary beds is as to Hence the minor limit to is -\mdash ; years , or 12 million.yenrs nlbers .
It is extremely of sia lropc ) formed per snltu , and our f ) ) ) f'ar short of the reality .
lf Europe and Asia as , pid as supposition No. 1 , the total ) Vhat G of Asilld ] ) tred 1 of day by an amount bc ] Prof. G. G. Stokes on certain [ Dec. 20 , Let and be the original and present angular velocity , and the equatorial component which is destroyed by friction .
Then ( 18 ) But ; therefore Hence the original length of the day was seconds .
Hence the formation of Asia and Europe had the effect of lengthening the day seconds , no tter at what rate the formation took place .
III .
" " On certain Movements off Radiometers .
By G. G. M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received November 1 , 1877 .
Nearly two years ago Mr. Crookes was so good as to present me with two of his beautiful radiometers of different constructions , the disks of one bein made of pith , and those of the other of roasted , in each case blackened with lampblack on one face .
With these I was enabled to make some experiments , having rehtion to their apparently anomalous movements under certain nces , which were very interesting to myself , although the facts are only suoh as have already presented themselves to Mr. Crookes , either in the actual form in which I witnessed them , or in one closeJy analogous , and have mostly been described by him .
Although it will be necessary for me to describe the experiments , which have all been repeated and over again so as to make sure of the results , I do not bring forward the facts as new .
My object is rather to endeavour to coordinate them , and point to the conclusions to lvhich they appear to lead .
I do not pretend that these conclusi are established ; I am well are that they need to be further coufronted with observation ; but as I not leisure to engage in series of experiments which would demnnd the expenditure of a good deal of have lately been urged by a friend to publish my , I venture to lay them before the Royal Society , in hopes that they be of some use , evcn if only in the way of stimulating inqniry .
describing my expcrilnenfs I designate direction of rotation which the hite face precedes as positive , and the reyerse as

