140 Mr. G. Gore on some Properties \lt ; \lt ; On some Properties of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia/ " By G. Gore , E.R.S. Received May 15 , 1872* .
To examine the general solvent properties of anhydrous liquefied ammonia , and to detect any manifest chemical reactions between it and various substances , I employed precisely the same kind of method as that 1 used in examining liquid cyanogen ( see Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xx .
p. 67 ) .
It was desirable in these experiments not to use flint-glass tubes , because the tenacity of that substance is so feeble the tubes burst by the pressure of the gutta-percha stoppers ; when such tubes were employed , the mouths of them had to be closed by fusion .
The tubes require to be somewhat stronger than those used with liquid cyanogen , because the pressure exerted by the vapour is so much greater .
The length of the horizontal portion of the tubes was 7| inches ; by having this part of the tube very much longer , a much lower degree of heat is necessary in the experiments , and a greater quantity of the liquid may be obtained .
To procure the anhydrous liquid , chloride of calcium was heated to redness , reduced to fine powder , and perfectly saturated with well-dried ammonia in a current of that vapour , the flask containing the powder being immersed in broken ice during the latter part of the process , and occasionally shaken to prevent formation of lumps .
Luring this process the powder evolved much heat and swelled considerably .
Every precaution was taken to prevent the powder absorbing moisture from the atmosphere .
The temperature employed to expel the vapour from the salt , with tubes of the dimensions given , was much below that of visible redness .
On allowing the tubes to become quite cold , the vapour was reabsorbed and the liquid disappeared ; the pressure having also ceased , enabled the stopper to be removed and the products further examined .
By this means some of the tubes could also be employed for fresh substances , 250 substances , including solids and liquids , and a great variety of simple and compound bodies , were subjected to the action of the liquefied vapour .
Except when otherwise stated , the substances were in nearly all cases as free from moisture as it was convenient to obtain them ; nevertheless in some instances the effects were evidently due in a slight degree to traces of water .
The substances were also generally very pure , many of them having been carefully prepared by myself .
The following is a statement of the results :\#151 ; Water mixed perfectly with the liquid .
After the reabsorption of the ammonia by the chloride of calcium and the tube had become perfectly cold , the water had become about twice its original bulk by retention of ammonia .
Iodine first liquefied to the appearance of thin treacle , then entirely dissolved to a clear and slightly yellow liquid .
On evaporation of the * Read June 20 , 1872 .
See abstract , rol .
xx .
p. 441 .
of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia .
ammonia , reddish-black crystals separated , apparently consisting of unaltered iodine .
I did not examine whether the residue contained any of the explosive compound , " iodide of nitrogen .
" Iodic acid did not dissolve or show any change in the liquid .
Wood-charcoal , also Brodie 's intumescent graphite , did not dissolve or change .
C2C12 would not mix with the ammonia ; but a little of it dissolved , and the ammonia became slightly brown .
Liquid C2 Cl4 mixed perfectly , and after the evaporation of the ammonia it was left behind .
Solid C2 Cl6 did not dissolve or suffer any change .
Liquid CC14 behaved like C2 Cl4 .
Solid CBr4 * dissolved rapidly and very copiously , and did not recrystallize until nearly all the liquid had evaporated .
Boron crystals , boracic anhydride , silicon crystals , and precipitated silica were all unaffected .
Sulphur dissolved sparingly , and formed a deeply coloured purplish-red solution , and on evaporation of the_ liquid a yellow film of it was left .
Liquid chloride of sulphur became dark red and solid in the gas , and purple in the liquid , apparently with chemical action ; a portion of the solid dissolved and formed a deeply purple liquid , on evaporation of which the red solid was left behind .
Bisulphide of carbon became yellow and opaque in the gas , and changed in the liquid to a yellow bulky solid .
Selenium was unaffected .
Selenious acid prevented the formation of the liquid , probably by uniting with the ammonia , but did not enlarge in bulk , or show any visible change .
Bright tellurium was unaffected .
Bed phosphorus showed no change .
WTiite phosphorus dissolved to a yellow liquid , and separated again on evaporation of the ammonia .
Phosphoric anhydride contracted in bulk in the gas , dissolved but very slightly in the liquid , and exhibited no other change .
Glacial phosphoric acid was not visibly affected .
Terchloride of phosphorus produced strong chemical action , and formed a colourless bulky solid .
Pentachloride of phosphorus dissolved freely , and crystals formed on evaporation of the liquid .
Metallic arsenic was unaffected .
Arsenious anhydride enlarged somewhat in bulk , but did not dissolve .
Arsenic-acid crystals dissolved to a very minute extent only .
Terchloride of arsenic was converted into a white solid with manifest chemical action .
Teriodide of arsenic became white and swelled considerably .
Bealgar became yellow , and partly dissolved to a yellow solution , which on evaporation left an orange-yellow residue .
Orpiment turned dark brown in the gas , and dissolved slightly in the liquid , producing a faintly yellow solution , which left a yellow film on evaporation .
Metallic antimony , sesquioxide of antimony , and antimonious acid were not visibly affected .
Hydrated antimonic acid was slightly dissolved .
Pused fluoride of antimony swelled very greatly in the liquid , but did not dissolve ; it retained its enlarged bulk after evaporation of all the * Given to me by the discoverers , Messrs. Groves and Bolas .
\#177 ; 42 Mr. G. Gore on some Properties ammonia .
Crystalline hydrated terchloride of antimony swelled com siderably , but did not dissolve .
Oxychloride of antimony was not visibly affected .
Terbromide of antimony dissolved freely .
Oxybromide of antimony was very slightly dissolved .
Teriodide of antimony became yellow with apparent chemical action , and a portion dissolved and formed a dense layer beneath the colourless liquid ammonia .
Black and red sesquisulphides of antimony were not visibly affected , but each imparted a faint purplish-blue colour to the liquid .
Orange sulphide of antimony dissolved to some extent , forming an opaque brownish-green solution , and separated again on evaporation of the liquid .
Yanadic acid and nitride of vanadium produced no visible effect* .
" Molybdenum " ( in the state of a fine black powder ) imparted a weak cobalt-blue colour to the liquid , but did not visibly diminish in bulk .
Molybdic acid became quite white , but did not dissolve .
Native sulphide of molybdenum , " tungsten " ( in the state of a black powder ) , and tungstic acid produced no visible effect .
Metallic bismuth , hydrated oxide of bismuth , and fluoride of bismuth were not visibly affected .
Chloride of bismuth ( not anhydrous ) swelled greatly , and dissolved rather freely , but partly returned to its original bulk after the liquid had evaporated .
Carbonate of bismuth and sulphide of bismuth were not visibly altered .
Metallic osmium -was not visibly affected .
Osmic acid was chemically altered , and produced first a yellow , then a red , and finally a brownish-black opaque mixture , consisting of solid particles suspended in a comparatively colourless liquid : on evaporation of the liquid , the solid substance remained behind .
Black oxide of iridium , also scales of osmi-iridium , produced no visible effect .
Metallic palladium was not affected .
Bichloride of palladium became white , and enlarged in bulk , and slightly dissolved to a clear yellow liquid ; the residue remained white and of enlarged bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Sulphide of palladium was unaffected .
Black oxide of platinum was not visibly affected .
Bichloride of platinum became nearly white , and slightly dissolved , forming a slightly yellow solution .
Tetrachloride of platinum behaved like the bichloride .
Tetraiodide of platinum turned red , dissolved freely to a reddish-yellow liquid , crystallized in red needles on evaporation of the solution , and finally left a black residue .
Terchloride of gold was decomposed , and the product very slightly dissolved .
Bright silver was unaffected .
Oxide of silver swelled considerably , but did not dissolve ; it contracted again after evaporation of the liquid .
Peroxide of silver ( formed by electrolysis of a pure solution of argentic fluoride with platinum electrodes ) became brown , and made the liquid slightly yellow , but did not visibly alter in bulk .
Argentic nitrate dissolved freely , and on evaporation of the liquid long crystalline needles separated .
Brown argentic fluoride swelled a little , became somewhat * Given to me by Dr. Roseoe .
of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia .
143 white , dissolved sparingly , and separated in needles on evaporation .
Chloride of silver in powder swelled considerably , but did not dissolve ; it remained enlarged in bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Fused argentic bromide lost its transparency , swelled and became white , dissolved slightly , and crystallized on evaporation .
Argentic iodide dissolved rapidly and freely , and formed a dense colourless solution which mixed with the excess of liquefied ammonia ; colourless crystals separated , but not until nearly all the liquid had evaporated : this salt is extremely soluble in the liquid .
Argentic iodate showed no effect .
Carbonate of silver turned dark brown and swelled considerably , but did not dissolve , and on evaporation of the liquid returned to its original volume and colour .
Argentic sulphate swelled greatly , and disintegrated to a fine white powder , which returned partly to its orignal bulk after evaporation of all the liquid .
Phosphate of silver and argentic arseniate were nearly insoluble , and suffered no chemical change .
Yanadate of silver was insoluble .
Mercury was unaffected .
Yellow mercuric oxide , also red-brown mercuric oxide ( both obtained by precipitation ) , did not dissolve or alter .
Mercurous nitrate turned black in the gas , and dissolved to some extent in the liquid ; the residue left after evaporation of the liquid was a blackish-grey powder , apparently consisting of minute particles of metallic mercury .
Mercurous chloride became brown in the gas , and dissolved copiously to a dense solution in the liquid ; but its solution would not mix with the excess of liquefied ammonia : by evaporation of the ammonia it was left in a crystalline state .
Mercuric chloride dissolved freely , forming a colourless dense solution , which would not mix or dissolve in the slightest degree in the excess of liquid : by evaporation the excess of liquid separated first , then that containing the chloride , and left the salt in a crystalline state .
Mercuric bromide fell to powder with apparent chemical action , and dissolved to a small extent .
Scarlet mercuric iodide first became yellow , then dark brown , and dissolved freely : on evaporation of the liquid , the salt separated in a crystalline state .
Mercuric sulphide wras unaffected .
Anhydrous mercuric sulphate was very little affected .
Hydrated mercuric sulphate swelled greatly , imparted a violet colour to the liquid , and partly returned to its former bulk after evaporation of the ammonia .
Copper lost its brightness , and imparted a slightly brown colour to the ammonia : wrhen nearly all the liquid had evaporated , the residuary portion was deep blue in colour .
Copper filings produced no additional effect .
Suboxide of copper was nearly insoluble , and but little affected .
Protoxide of copper was also insoluble and unaffected .
White anhydrous cupric fluoride became deep blue in colour , but imparted scarcely any colour to the liquid .
Anhydrous cupric chloride became deep blue , swelled greatly , did not dissolve nor impart colour to the liquid .
Cuprous iodide ( not perfectly anhydrous ) became partly green , and imparted a Mr. G. Gore on some Properties faint blue colour to the liquid , but did not otherwise dissolve .
Cupric carbonate produced no effect .
Cupric sulphide was superficially changed to a deep blue colour .
White anhydrous cupric sulphate turned deep blue and swelled greatly , but did not impart any colour to the liquid ; it remained enlarged in bulk after evaporation of the ammonia .
Cupric phosphate produced no visible effect .
Nickel filings were unaffected .
Anhydrous oxide of nickel and hydrated oxide of nickel were also unaffected .
Fluoride of nickel suffered no great visible change , and did not dissolve .
Nearly anhydrous chloride of nickel swelled and became of a purplish-blue colour , but did not dissolve : after evaporation of the liquid , the salt remained enlarged in bulk .
Oxide of cobalt , also fluoride of cobalt , was unaffected .
Anhydrous chloride of cobalt swelled to about ten times its original volume and fell to powder , but was quite insoluble ; it partly contracted in bulk again on evaporation of the ammonia .
Carbonate of cobalt was unaffected .
Sulphate of cobalt ( not perfectly anhydrous ) swelled , but did not dissolve ; it remained expanded after evaporation of the liquid .
Electro-deposited iron was unaffected .
Anhydrous persulphate of iron absorbed much of the liquid , swelled considerably , and showed signs of decomposition , but did not dissolve ; it remained enlarged in bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Metallic manganese , fluoride of manganese , chloride of manganese , and manganic sulphate were all unaffected .
Chromic acid turned yellow , absorbed ammonia , swelled greatly , dissolved slightly , forming a yellow solution , and retained its enlarged bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Solid green fluoride of chromium was not affected .
Violet chloride of chromium swelled considerably and dissolved slightly , forming a purplish solution ; it did not contract to its original bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Chromate of silver turned bright yellow at its edges , and nearly black in its mass , but did not dissolve .
Chromate of copper was not dissolved , but was converted externally into a substance having the colour of sesquioxide of chromium .
Metallic aluminium was unaffected .
Yellow oxide of uranium and nitrate of uranium produced but little effect .
Fluoride of uranium was slightly dissolved , forming a yellowish solution .
Metallic thallium , peroxide of thallium , and fluoride of thallium weie not visibly altered .
Bright metallic lead and red oxide of lead were unaffected .
Nitrate of lead dissolved , and was apparently partly decomposed ; crystals separated on evaporation of the last portions only of the liquid .
Fluoride of lead produced no effect .
Chloride of lead swelled considerably , but did not dissolve ; it did not diminish in bulk on evaporation of the liquid .
Iodide of lead turned white , dissolved slightly , and colourless crystals were left on evaporation of the liquid .
Iodate of lead produced no effect .
Yellow chromate of lead behaved in all respects like the iodide .
of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia .
Metallic tin , stannous oxide , and stannic oxide were not affected .
Fused bichloride of tin was partly dissolved .
Liquid tetrachloride of tin was first converted into a solid substance with strong chemical action ; the solid then dissolved freely , and separated again on evaporation of the liquid .
Metallic indium , was unaffected .
Fluoride of cadmium was not affected .
Chloride of cadmium swelled , but did not dissolve ; it contracted again on evaporation of the liquid .
Bromide of cadmium swelled somewhat , but did not dissolve .
Iodide of cadmium swelled greatly , and absorbed a large quantity of ammonia , but did not dissolve ; it remained enlarged in bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Carbonate of cadmium produced no effect .
Sulphide of cadmium was not visibly affected , but it imparted to the liquid a faint cobalt-blue colour .
Fluoride of zinc produced no effect .
Chloride of zinc fell to powder , swelled greatly , and did not contract after evaporation of the liquid ; it did not dissolve .
Bromide of zinc and iodide of zinc behaved like the chloride .
Nitrocyanide of titanium , black oxide of titanium , titanic acid , zirconium scales , oxide of zirconium , sulphate of thorinum , glucina , chloride of glucinum , carbonate of glucinum , sulphate of glucinum , sulphate of lanthanum , and niobic acid produced no visible effect .
Oxide of cerium and fluoride of cerium were unaffected .
Nitrate of cerium dissolved slightly .
Chloride of cerium swelled slightly , but did not dissolve .
Metallic magnesium was unaffected .
Basic chloride of magnesium dissolved slightly .
Metallic calcium became covered with an insoluble white powder , but did not dissolve nor exhibit any other effect .
Fused chloride of calcium fell to powder , swelled greatly , but did not dissolve .
Bromide of calcium swelled a little , but did not dissolve .
Metallic strontium behaved like calcium .
Metallic barium lost its metallic appearance , but showed , no signs of solution or other effect .
Caustic anhydrous baryta was unaffected .
Nitrate of barium dissolved freely , and crystallized on evaporation of the liquid .
Chloride of barium swelled considerably , but did not dissolve ; it remained enlarged in bulk after evaporation of the liquid .
Baric sulphate was not visibly affected .
Metallic lithium produced strong action , and formed a deep indigo-blue coloured fluid : as the liquid evaporated the metal separated , and exhibited successive colours , first that of bronze , then of brass , and ultimately colourless and brilliant like silver .
Metallic sodium swelled , and then behaved very much like lithium .
Chloride of sodium dissolved sparingly , and did not enlarge in bulk .
Metallic potassium behaved like lithium and sodium* .
Nitrate of potassium wras soluble , but not freely * These results agree with those previously obtained by C. A. Seely ( see ' Chemical News , ' yoI .
xxiii .
p. 169 ) .
Seely found lithium , sodium , potassium , and rubidium soluble , and mercury , copper , thallium , indium , aluminium , and magnesium insoluble in anhydrous liquid ammonia .
VOL. XXI .
N 146 Mr. G. Gore on some Properties so .
Fluoride of potassium was very slightly soluble .
Chloride of potassium was not visibly affected .
Potassic bromide dissolved sparingly , and crystallized on evaporation of the liquid .
Iodide of potassium was freely soluble .
Silico-fluoride of potassium was insoluble .
Chloriridiate of .
potassium crystals were superficially changed to a brown colour , but did not dissolve .
Permanganate of potassium dissolved very freely to a deep purple-red solution , and was left behind on evaporation of the liquid .
Chromate of potassium dissolved to a minute extent .
Potassic bichromate dissolved somewhat , and formed a yellow solution .
Chrome-alum was only superficially changed .
Fluozirconate of potassium was not visibly affected .
Metallic rubidium behaved like sodium and potassium .
Fluoride of rubidium was insoluble .
Nitrate of ammonium dissolved very freely .
Chloride of ammonium also dissolved very freely , and did not crystallize until nearly all the liquid had evaporated .
Carbonate of ammonium , ammonium vanadate , and ammonium metavanadate produced no visible effect .
Uric acid and paracyanogen were unaffected .
Argentic cyanide dissolved very freely and rapidly , and crystallized in scales on evaporation of the liquid .
Cyanide of mercury dissolved freely , and crystallized only on evaporation of the last portions of the liquid .
Cupric cyanide turned deep blue , and dissolved to some extent .
Cupric ferroeyanide was converted into a dark green solid .
Cyanide of zinc was very little affected .
Potassic cyanide was insoluble .
Potassic sulphocyanide dissolved to some extent .
Ferrocyanide of potassium produced no effect .
Fusel-oil , ether , alcohol , aldehyde , and chloroform mixed freely and perfectly .
Alloxan became of a deep purple-red colour , and dissolved freely , and left a purple-red solid after evaporation of the liquid .
Succinic acid was insoluble .
Indigo dissolved sparingly , and formed a reddish-brown solution .
Sulphate of quinine dissolved to some extent .
Gutta percha imparted a brown colour to the liquid , and a sticky residue was left on evaporation .
Paraffin , anthracene , and naphthalin were not visibly affected .
Amylene would not mix with the liquid .
Mesitylene behaved similarly .
Starch swelled and mixed as it does with water , but did not form a clear solution .
Glycerine mixed perfectly .
White sugar dissolved freely , and left a gummy residue on evaporation of the liquid .
Isinglass rapidly became semifluid .
Camphor dissolved copiously , and crystallized when the liquid evaporated .
Gum-copal dissolved only to a minute extent .
Gun-cotton dissolved sparingly , and the solution left a film on evaporation .
Bengal silk was quite insoluble .
A few experiments were made for the purpose of examining the chemical properties of the solution of potassium by placing other substances inside the tubes with that metal , and then distilling the ammonia into contact with them .
C2 Cl6 prevented the production of the blue colour .
C2 Cl4 produced chemical action , and prevented the blue colour , the residue was a white solid , exhibiting no signs of free carbon .
C r4 of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia .
147 caused strong chemical action , sparks and flashes of light , the formation of a colourless salt , and prevented the blue colour , and finally produced a violent detonation , by which the whole of the tube was shattered to small particles .
Anhydrous carbonate of sodium caused the blue colour first produced to gradually disappear ; the residue was quite colourless , and entirely soluble in water .
Anhydrous formiate of soda produced similar effects .
Crystals of oxalate of ammonia produced chemical action , destroyed the blue colour first produced , and left a colourless residue which contained no free carbon .
Sesquioxide of chromium did not prevent the blue colour , nor show any signs of reduction or other chemical change .
Sesquioxide of uranium prevented the permanency of the blue colour .
I have not specially classified the results of these experiments , but may remark that the only elementary substances soluble in anhydrous ammonia are the alkali metals proper , also iodine ( bromine was not tried ) , sulphur , and phosphorus .
The more commonly soluble inorganic salts are nitrates , chlorides , bromides , and iodides ; whilst oxides , fluorides , carbonates , sulphides , and sulphates were very generally insoluble .
Many saline substances , especially certain chlorides , bromides , iodides , and sulphates , absorbed ammonia copiously , and swelled greatly , but did not dissolve .
The behaviour of the chlorides of mercury was peculiar .
In many of these experiments chemical changes took place , and new products were formed ; but I did not analyze those products , because that was not my object : these chemical reactions offer a field for future investigators .
The sulphides of antimony and cadmium , and the sulphates of mercury and manganese , imparted a purple tint to the liquid ; sulphur behaved similarly .
February 6 , 1873 .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Hugh Culling Eardley Childers was admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Osteology of the Hyopotamidce .
" By Dr. W. Kowa-levsky .
Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 19 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The paper laid before the Society is intended to fill a certain deficiency in our knowledge of the extinct creation by giving a complete osteology of a family of Paridigitate Ungulata , which , by the completeness of its skeleton , unreduced number of digits , and rich development in generic VOL. xxi .
o

