IV .
" Experimental Investigations on the Stratified Appearance in Electrical Discharges .
" " Effect obtained by varying the Resistance .
" BY JOHN P. GASSIOT , F.R.S. Received December 11 , 1862 .
1 .
In the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' May 26 , 1859 , I have stated that , " on attaching the terminals of my water-battery ( Phil. Trans. 1844 , p. 39 ) to the wires of a carbonic acid vacuumn-tube , inserted about 2 inches apart , I obtained a stratified discharge similar to that of an induction coil .
" 2 .
The batterv remained as it was originally construicted , consisting of 3520 pairs of copper and zinc cylinders inserted in glass cells .
As the rain-water with which each cell had been from time to time filled evaporated , they were again c-harged : this process of evaporation and recharging continuing for several years , during this lengthened period the battery was three or four times cleaned by dusting and wiping the cells , boards , and slips of glass on which the cells rested ; but the constanit deposition of dust and moisture had so far reduced the static effects of the battery , that this year it would scarcely elicit a spark of about ; -c th of an inch in air between the plates of niv micrometer electrometer ( Phil. Trans. 1839 ) , and I had therefore determined on taking the entire battery asunder , as well as in order to attach fresh zincs to the copper cylinders .
3 .
Previous to undertaking this somewhat tedious and troublesome process , it occurred to me to try what effect would be obtained from the discharge of the battery in carbonic acid vacua , by merely recharging it with brine in lieu of rain-water : the result of this experiment was such as to induce me for the present to forego my intention of having new zincs , particularly as a very large number of them were found to be inuch less oxidized than I had expected , and rather to turn my attention to some improved mode of insulation .
4 .
To accomnplish this , the zincs were cleaned , and the old pieces of string with which they were kept from metallic contact with the copper cylinders were removed and replaced with new .
The wood trays , on which the battery is placed , were cleaned , and carefully covered with a thick coating of shell-lac varnish , as were also the glass cells , the latter having been first heated in a sandbath in order to withdraw all trace of moisture before the varnish was applied .
5 .
On each tray slips of window-glass , also coated with shell-lac , were fixed edgeways , forming a kind of rail on which the cells were placed : the glass vessels being conical at the base , the strips of narrow glass presented little more than four points of shell-lac on which each cell rested .
Those zincs which were found to be much oxidized were placed aside ; and ultimately three batteries were completed , each of 1120 pairs of plates , forming , when connected with each other , one battery of 3360 cells : each cell was carefully charged with a saturated solution of common salt and water , and the trays , when placed on the racks , were separately insulated by resting on pieces of ebonite .
6 .
It will be observed that I have reduced my battery from 3520 to 3360 pairs of elements ; the tension , as shown by the spark discharge , was nearly the same as when it was originally charged ; but I have observed , after the battery has rested for a short time , the first discharge between the wire terminals in air appears to be more dense , presenting the same appearance as the discharge ?
of a weakly-charged Leyden jar .
The purport of this communication is not , however , to describe the general effects obtained by the battery , many of which require more time for verification than I at present have at my disposal , but to lay before the Rloyal Society certain novel results which I have obtained , and which I hope may tend to elucidate , and possibly assist in explaining , the pheniomena of what is termed the stratified electrical discharge .
7 .
I continue the practice I originally adopted of ntumbering my vacuum-tubes * : during the progress of my experiments , I found that the discharge of the battery was much more sensible to the slightest variation of the state of tension in each of these tubes , than that of the inductioni coil ; the sudden disruption in the discharge of the latter presents greater obstacles to the more careful study of the phenomella than is offered by the direct discharge of the battery .
S. I soon ascertailned that in some of my vacuum-tubes I was enabled to study the action of the discharges under peculiarly favourable colnditions .
I anticipate that these coniditions may be still fturther improved ; but , from the results I have already obtained , I venture the opinion that it may be doubtful whether the true theory of electricity as developed by the voltaic battery will be correctly explained , unless by carefuilly experimenting with batteries satisfactorily insulated .
The battery I have described , with the improved metho(d of obtaining vacua , first suggested to me by Dr. Frankland , offered me the opportunity of examining the discharge unider conditions heretofore ulnkinowni .
9 .
The vacuum-tubes in which the experimuents were maade , and which relate to the subject of this communicationi , were Nos. 70 , 248 , 315 , 319 , 320 , 324 .
These I shall refer to in the order of the experiments .
No. 248 ( fig. 2 in woodcut ) is about 21 inches long , 1 inch diameter : to the platinum wires small balls of coke are attached , about 11 inch apart , the wires being protected iniside the vacuum , as far as the balls , by glass tubing .
No. 70 ( described Phil. Trans. 1859 , p. 151 ) is 14 inches long , with platilnum wires 12 inches apart : a smiiall glass bulb containing crystals of iodinie was placed in this tube before it was charged with carboniic acid ; and after the vacuum had been obtained , the glass bulb was broken .
This tube consequiently contains vapour of iodine .
No. 319 ( Plate I. ) is 20 inches long , 4 inches diameter : one terminal consists of aluminium , cup-shaped , about 3 inches diameter ; the other a wire of the same metal .
There is about 141 inches between the cup and the wire .
No. 320 is 3 inches long , 1 inch diameter : very thin platinum wires , ths of an inch in length from the part protected by glass tube , are placed 14 inch apart from point to point in the tube .
No. 315 and No. 324 ( Plates I. and II .
) are about 5 inches long , with two balls of aluminium Alths of an inch diameter , and 3 inches apart : the balls are attached to platinum wires , these wires being also , as in No. 248 , hermetically sealed and protected with glass tubing .
The vacuum in each of the tubes was obtained by the carbonic acid process .
A Tj4.l .
BCl000 000-'0 d ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
r ~~~~~~~~~~~Fig .
29./ 10 .
Fig. 1 represents the general arrangement of the apparatus : A , B , C , the three batteries ( ? ?
5 ) ; z and c the zinc and copper terminals of each battery ; the discharge of 1120 pairs , of 2240 , or of 3360 can be thus separately examined .
My general practice is to place the experimental tube between either one or the other of the batteries ( fig. 2 ) , the negative or zinc terminal of C being attached to one wire , and the copper or positive of B to the other .
A and B are then connected , and the circuit is completed either by a resistance arrangement being attached to the zinc terminal of A and the copper terminal of C , or the circuit is closed by a wire .
It was with the view of being enabled to vary the resistance at pleasure , that introduced the two tubes a and b , containing the distilled water , in the circuit .
I ascertained that , by varying the depth to which the wires attached to the terminals of the battery are plunged in onie or both of the tubes containing the water , the resistance could be reglulated with great precision , and that it was immaterial in what part of the circuit the vacuum-tube or the resistanlce was introduced , provided the circuit is completed .
l1 .
In proceeding to describe the experiments , I may premise that , in using the terms intermittent and continuous as applied to the discharge of the battery , I desire only to denote that when the discharge is examined by a vibrating or revolving mirror , in the former the appearance of a series of distinct discharges is plainly perceptible ; in the latter this separation is not seen , but the discharge appears as a continuous light .
12 .
No. 248 .
In this tube , with 2240 series , luminous glows are observed on both balls , that on the negative being larger and more brilliant ; in the dark discharge between the balls no trace of stripe can be seeln ; but at intervals a flash discharge takes place .
The luminous glow on each ball appears as a continuous discharge ; both glows at times flitter , attaching themselves sometimes on one , and them on the opposite sides of the balls ; but even then they are not resolvable by the mirror .
13 .
When a resistance of about 3 inches in length , of distilled water placed in the glass tubes a or b ( ? ?
10 ) ( fig. 1 ) , is introduced in the circuit , the discharge assumes the narrow stratified appearance which I described in a similar vacuum-tube* , fig. 2 : the discharge is now intermittent , being separated by the revolving mirror : as the wire is depressed and the resistance thus reduced , the discharges when examined by the mirror are found to be quicker in succession , being less and less separated until we arrive at a point at which the discharge suddenly changes its character , appearing now as a continuous light .
Gradually raising the wire , and thus increasing the resistanice , the discharge becomes again stratified and intermittent , more or less as the resistance is increased or reduced .
14 .
No. 70 .
This tube contains vapour of iodine ( ? ?
9 ) : with the induction coil a luminous discharge is obtained , which exhibits very narrow stripe ; with the battery of 3360 cells striaare not observable , but luminous discharges are obtained , which are distinctly separated by the revolving mirror , and are consequently interniitteiit .
15 .
No. 319 , with 2240 cells of the battery and a resistance introduLced in the circuit : the discharge can , by careful manipulations , be mnodified so as to assume the appearance of a positive and negative discharge , impinging on and interminglin:g with each other without any dark space hitervening ( Plate I. fig. 3 ) .
Around the negative terminal the luminiosity exteinds to the sides of the tube ; from thence to the positive wire the discharge , as represented in the figures , takes place in a line of about 2 inches diameter , emitting , a very faint light .
The slightest variation in the resistanice obtainied by raising or depressingo the connecting wire in the columns of distilled water ( fig. 1 ) alters the appearance of the discharge to that represented in fig. 4 , where the dark portion is clearly defined .
As the resistance is reduced , the dark space increases by the positive discharge receding towards the wire , the negative becomes brighter and more clearly defined , at its termination anr approach to stratifications is observed , until , as the resistance is further reduced , the discharge will suddenly assume the form ( as in fig. 5 ) of two bright clouds , the outer edges presenting a greenish blue colour , crescent-shaped , clearly and sharply defined , of about 8th of an inch diameter .
The other portion of the clouds remainis of a bright reddish purple , gradually deepening in colour in approaching the other edge , where it becomes less defined , leaving towards the next cloud a dark space .
The same gradations of colour are observable in the inner cloud next the positive wire ; but not so clearly or distinctly defined .
The dischlarge is at this time continiuous at intervals ; but , without altering or apparently interfering with these strive .
sudden discharges take place : two or three similar cloud-like strie will be observed at the positive wire ; and at the same instant brilliant stratifications are visible , overlapping the negative ( fig. 6 ) * , With the 2240 series distinct sounds were heard in the tube ; with the whole battery of 3360 series , the overlapping strire would remain for several seconds , but the souinds were not appreciable until a magnet was presenlted near to , and in a line with , the overlapping strim ; the action of the maglnet causes , these strive to spread alonlg the surface of the glass tube , and in this state of the discharge the sounds were againi audible .
When sounds are heard , either with the lesser liumber of cells ( 2240 ) or when the overlapping strive of the greater number are spread by the magnet , the discharge is resolved by the mirror , and as such is intermittent ; but otherwise it is continuous .
Mr. Stewart , Director of Kew Observatory , was present when I made this experiment ; he examined the separation of the discharge by the revolving mirror , and heard the sounds , under the conditions of the dischlarge which I have described .
16 .
No. 320 .
The discharge in this tube did not pass until the potash was heated , wheln a faint luminosity appeared , and immediately afterwards one , and then two , cloud-like strie came from the positive wire , while roulnd the negative a large brilliant glow was produced ; as the discharge colntinued , the negative wire became red .
hot .
I have repeated this experiment many times with the same tube ; platinuim from the negative wire is deposited in a lateral direction , on the sides of the tube , as it would have beeni from the discharge of an in-duction coil .
17 .
No. 315 ( Plates I. &amp; II .
fig. 7 , &amp;c. ) .
With 3360 cells , the discharge in this tube is of a dazzling brilliancy , exhibiting 12 or 14 striae ( Dr. Faraday and Dr. Tyndall , who withnessed this experiment , countedl 13 ) ; that nearest the negative ball , being truncated and of a pale-green colour , impinged on the luminious glow which surrounded that terininal ( fig. 13 ) .
With a resistanice of the two columns of distilled water ( fig. 1 ) , each 18 inches in length , introduiced in the circuit ( ? ?
10 ) , certain chanlges in the form and number of the strive take place .
Some of these I have endeavoured to represent by figs. 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , Il , 19 , and 13 .
The wires attached to the terminals of the battery .
are placed inside the two tubes containing distilled water , connected with each other from the bottom ; as soon as the wires touch the surface of the water , a faint luminous discharge is observed at each ball of the vacuum-tube .
As one wire attached to the negative is slowly de)ressed , the two luminous discharges appear to travel towards or to attract each other ; and at times I have noticed a portion of the positive luminosity to pass over and intermingle with the negative .
I tried the effect of a magnet on the discharge while in this state ; but it was always extiniguished * , and I could not obtain any satisfactory result .
Depressing the wire very gradually , the discharge assumes the form of fig. 7 , the positive being sharply defined , the negative retaining much of its irregular termination , but each separated from the other by a dark interval of about one inch in length .
As the wire was further depressed in the water , the brilliancy of the positive and negative luminous glows ilnereased ; and when about 3 inches of one wire had been immersed in the water , a single clearly defined luminous disk burst forth from the positive , remaining steady and apparently fixed as in fig. 8 .
As the wire was again further depressed , the luminous discharge at the positive slowly progressed along the tube unitil another bright disk appeared , remaining ( as lonig as the wire was notz further depressed ) stationary as in fig. 9 .
At this time 13 inches of wirec were in the water .
The resistance was again reduced by depressing the wire to 16 inches , when a third luminous disk was developed as in fig. 10 ; and at 18 inches depression , or the entire length of one column of water , a fourth disk was observed as in fig. 11 .
In this state , while the four luminous disks were stationary , the wire attached to the positive terminal of the battery was depressed 4 inches ; the luminous disks gradually closing on each other became more compressed , when a fifth was developed , fig. 12 .
The luminous glow on the negative ball had gradually assumed a flattelned surface towards the positive , appearing as a ring of light ; depressing the wire to 7 inches in the water , the luminous disks closed but remained separate , and a 6th was observed ; with 11 inches depression another , or the 7th , appeared , the negative glow increasing in brilliancy , retaining its flattened appearance .
At this time , probably from the long-continued action , the power of the battery was reduced , and the Ith disk disappeared , retreating to and apparently absorbed by the luminosity on the positive ball ; but on further depressing the wire , it was immediately reproduced ; and on 15 inches insertion an 8th was obtained , the negative glow increasing in brilliancy , and the part nearest the positive presenting a still more flattened appearanice .
Alnother clearly defined and separated disk of light was elicited , and then three or four came out in quick succession ; the whole discharge now became unsteady and flittering , the luminous disks no longer remaining fixed or stationary .
18 .
From the first appearance of the luminous discharge in No. 315 , until when thirteeni or fourteen bright disks or separate strice were observed , the discharge was not resolvable by a vibrating or a rotating mirror ; with the full power of the battery , the disk nearest the negative was truncated and impinged on the glow which surrounds that ball ( fig. 13 ) : this truncated disk was also distinguishable by its pale green colour ; those in its nearest contiguity had more or less a reddish tinge ; the round negative glow was brilliant and of a bluishwhite colour ; minute bright scintillations emaniated from the negative ball , while distinct luminous flash discharges took place through the strive .
On examining these intermittent discharges by two revolving nlirrors , kindly lent me by Professor Wheatstone , they appeared stratified ; but whether this did not arise from the passing of these discharges through the bright and dark portions of the continuouis discharge , might have been considered doubtful , had I not in another tube observed a similar stratified discharge under more favourable circumstances .
This tube , No. 324 , is of the same form and dimensions as 315 ; on heating it with a spirit-lamp when it was in the circuit of the battery , the luminous discharge showed four clearly defined separated strive , which remained fixed and steady in their relative positions ; in this state momentary stratified discharges were observed at intervals of from five to ten seconds , these strie assuming a conical form , as in Plate I1 .
fig. 14 .
I have observed somewhat similar intermittent discharges with the iitric-acid battery , possibly under more favourable conditions ; and with a more extended series than I then used* , the true nature of this discharge may be ascertained .
19 .
The discharge from an electrical machine when passing through air in the dark , presents the well-known form of a brush at the end of the wire attached to the prime conductor , and of a star at the point of another wire attached to the rubber , or in connexion with the earth .
I have shownt that if this discharge is allowed to pass through a vacuum-tube , stratifications will be obtained similar to those from an induction coil , and that the discharge of a Leyden jar , if passed through a wet string and a vacuum tube , is stratifiedt ; these diseharges are consequently identical , and only differ in their appearance according to the media through which they are passed .
20 .
In a former communication to the Royal Society* , I have also shown that the stratified discharge can be obtainied by a single disruption of the primary current of an inductive coil , however long may be the vacuum-tube through which the diseharge is passed .
If no addition is made to the battery with which the primary wire of the apparatus is connected , or no alteration is made in the arrangement of the coil , so as to increase or diminish the initensity of the discharge , the stratifications will always present the same appearance and form , occupying the same spaces and positions in the vacuumtube ; but if any change is made so as to alter the intensity , then a correspondiug alteration will appear in the discharge , the strice assuming a diFerent shape , and the bright and darh divisions occupying different positions .
21 .
When a galvanometer , a vacuum-tube , and a solution of iodide of potassium are arranged so as to form a continuous circuit with the secondary coil of an iniductive coil , not only is a luminous stratified discharge produced , but the needle of the galvanometer will be deflected , and iodine will be evolved by the induced momenta ?
y action ; we thus obtain in this diseharge all the indicationis and conditions of a true voltaic circuit .
In the continuous discharge of the battery we have the same indications as that of the momentary current of the closed circuit of an induction coil , and neither is resolvable by the rotating mirror .
The stratified discharge from a single disruptioni of the primary wire of the induction coil , and the continuous discharge of the voltaic battery , are therefore identical in their character .
22 .
With these prelimninary observations , I now propose to examine the results obtained from the discharge of an extended series of the voltaic battery in vacua described in this communication .
1st .
No. 248 .
The discharge under certain conditions is continuouLs , and under other conditions it becomes intermittent .
These conditions are , that without any resistance introduced in the circuit , except that inherent in the battery , the discharge cannot be resolved by the rotating mirror , and so far may be considered as continuous ; but when a certaini giiven and described resistance is introduced in the circuit , the discharge becomes intermittent ; with an increased resistance the number of discharges in any given time is reduced , the duration of such intermittent discharges being distinctly resolvable by the rotation or vibration of the plane of a mirror in which they can be reflected .
2nd .
No. v70 .
In this very imperfect vacuum , containing vapour of iodine , the battery does not elicit any strive , but by the revolving mirror the discharge is found to be intermittent .
With the induction coil the discharge in this tube elicits clearly defined but very narrow strive ; from the coil we have a discharge of high itntensity which elicits stratifications , although they are not attainable by the lower intensity of the battery .
3rd .
No. 319 .
We obtain evidence of two distinct states of a discharge , of colour in the strive , and , under certain conditions , of sound .
4th .
In No. 320 we have experimental proof that in the more perfect vacuum the discharge will not pass , confirming my former result obtained with the coil ( Phil. Trans. 1859 , p. 156 ) , that the presence of a certain amount of matter is iindispensable , and that during the discharge heat is developed .
5th .
In No. 315 , under all conditions of resistance described , the discharge of the battery is stratified , but cannot be resolved by the revolving mirror : in this tube we are enabled to determine and regulate the number of strive , to some extent alter their colour , to fix and determine their position , separating or closing up the dark space between the luminous disks , these changes being entirely due to the amount of resistance introduced in the circuit .
The form , or figuration of the strive , and the positionis they occupy in the vacuum-tube , appear by these experiments to depend upon two separate and distinct conditions : 1st .
The power or energy of the battery .
2nd .
The state of tension of the highly attenuated matter through which the discharge is visible .
The strive can be controlled , their number increased or reduced , and their places or positions in the tubes altered by the introduction of measurable amount of resistance in the circuiit ; and thus they appear to indicate the amounit of force of tension which exists in a closed circuit of the battery , as the divergence of the gold leaves of an electroscope denotes the evidence of tension before the circuit is cOmpleted .
In my former communications to the Royal Society I have alluded to the direction of a force in the induction discharge from the positive towards the negative ( Phil. Trans. 1858 , p. 16 , sections 57 , 58 ) .
In 1859 I observed that there was also a tendency or indication of a force emanating from the negative wire ( Phil. Trans. 1859 , pp. 140 , 142 , 153 , sections 68 , 72 , 99 ) ; the actual disruption of the particles from the negative terminal also indicates a force ; and this disruption is as freely obtained by the continuous discharge of the battery ( ? ?
1 6 ) as it is by the intermittent discharge of the induction coil .
I have always observed that with the lowest state of intensity with which the discharge can be obtainied from an induction coil , the strie are wider apart and the dark space between the positive and the negative is muich extended ; under some conditions of the discharge it is the negative , and not the positive , that assumes the dominant character .
The form of the stripe in the battery discharge , as observed in No. 315 , figs. 7 , 8 , and 9 , presents an appearance somewhat analogous with the stationary undulations which exist in a column of air when isochronous progressive undulations meet each other from opposite directions , and on the surface of water by mechanical impulses similarly interfering with each other .
May not the dark bands be the nodes of undulations arising from similar im.pulses.proceeding from positive and negative discharges ?
Or can the luminous stratiflcations which we obtain in a closed circuit of the secondary coil of an induction apparatus , and in the cir cuit of the voltaic battery , be the representation ofpulsations which pass along the wire of the former and through the battery of the latter , im.pulses possibly generated by the action of the discharge along the wires ?

