33 Profs .
A. Gray and J. J. Dobbie .
Connection between second change of hue .
Again , after looking at blue for thirty second \lt ; he seeks the third change of hue .
The next step is to trace tb I violet to its limits .
After this he works through the spectrum bad i again , fatiguing the eye with violet before finding the blue , and St 1 on , ending with the determination of the limits of the red .
Thi j degree of fatigue is so slight that he is quite unconscious of it .
The seventy cases examined in this way agree as to the numbei j and mean position of the changes of hue , but they may be divided j broadly into those whose colour sensations overlap and those whose colour sensations do not overlap , i.e. , those who find the changes of tint occur in the same place when working from red to violet as when returning from violet to red .
The first class includes persons both educated and uneducated whose avocations require them to compare colours .
The second com !
j prises all who fail with the closer shades of Holmgren 's wools !
Details are given of some in whom the green and violet are so fari j extended into each other that they see practically no pure blue , and j it is suggested that these , and other differences in the relative !
intensity and extent of the colour sensations may account for the ] ] divergence of opinions among writers on the subject .
The paper I concludes with an account of five cases of red-blindness .
On the Connection between the Electrical Properties and the Chemical Composition of different kinds of Glass . !
By Professor Andrew Gray , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Professor ; J. J. Dobbie , M.A. , D.Sc .
Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read !
February 17 , 1898 .
J The experiments and results described in the following paper are !
a first instalment of work we have undertaken with a view to finally 1 determining if possible , the circumstances which affect the con-1 ductivity and specific inductive capacity of glass .
It appeared from 1 some experiments which were carried out by Professor T. Gray and I ourselves some years ago , * that it might be of interest to have a up with a \#153 ; w * ' s'meof| Mir:^re ; Tly 0f"n\lt ; \gt ; d Professor T. Gray had show that 1 uTfU ?
" i ' taTe a hi\#171 ; her conductivity than flint I nartienlnr't resnlt hadals0 been arrived at by Dr. Hopkinson .
In ] , a , , seamed desirable to ascertain whether by increasing the 1 Z , i u diminishing the amount of soda , the con- 1 ductivity would go on duninishing .
We have experienced great 1 * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 231 , 1884 .
Electrical Properties and Chemical Composition .
39 ifficulty in getting glasses made according to our own specifications , 'fe endeavoured to make the glasses ourselves , and several expedients were made accordingly , both in the laboratories here and at he Ogwen Tile Works , where a large furnace had been erected for he construction of tiles from slate dust .
Some success was achieved , ut it was found impossible , without the expenditure of far more ime than could be spared , to obtain the glasses in a condition suit-ble for the experiments we wished to carry out .
Through the kindness , however , of Messrs. Schott \amp ; Co. , of Jena , nd of Messrs. Powell \amp ; Sons , Whitefriars , London , we have recently .btaiued a number of specimens of glass all richer in lead than the pecimens formerly available , and , further , in some cases practically ree from soda .
We have also had made to order by Messrs. Schott pecimens of their own glass , used , we believe , chiefly in the contraction of thermometers , as well as of a barium crown glass , which have not hitherto , so far as we are aware , been experimented with .
Determination of Conductivity.\#151 ; The method of experimenting ollowed was practically the same as that described in the paper dready referred to , but its nature may perhaps here be indicated .
Owing to the large percentage of lead oxide in some of the glasses )repared for us by Messrs. Schott , it was found impossible to blow hem into flasks , and they were therefore cast into plates ; the irrangements therefore required some modification for their case .
The specimens which were in the form of flasks were filled up with mercury to the bottom of the stem ( which in most cases was about 8 or 9 inches long ) , and the flask thus filled was sunk in a bath also containing mercury , so that the mercury was at the same evel inside and outside .
One terminal of a circuit containing a battery of about thirty secondary cells and a very sensitive galvanometer was connected to the mercury within the flask by a wire passing down the neck , while the other terminal was connected to the mercury in the bath .
The galvanometer was the instrument formerly used and described in ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 36 , p. 287 .
It was carefully insulated , as was also the reversing key , and all necessary precautions were taken to make sure that the current passing through the galvanometer was that passing through the walls of the flask between the mercury coatings .
Thus it was always verified that no deflection took place when the wire was withdrawn from the flask and placed round the outside of the neck .
This test obviated the possibility of the existence of any disturbing film of moisture on the surface of the glass .
The bath could be heated to any temperature required in the experiments .
The conductivity was calculated from deflection of the galvano40 Profs .
A. Gray and J. J. Dobbie .
Connection between meter produced by the current through the glass , the area and thickness of part of the specimen in which the current flowed , as described in the former paper .
In the capacity measurements the plate or flask , as the case might be , was supported as described above .
A quadrant electrometer was j kept connected to the plates of one of Lord Kelvin 's air leydens .
This was charged with twelve secondary cells , and therefore to :a difference of potential of about 24 volts .
After the battery had been removed a reading was taken of the electrometer deflection , andi then the specimen was connected for a very short interval of time as a condenser in parallel with the leyden .
This connection was made by means of a myograph pendulum which , when freed , swung over a considerable arc to a catch which prevented it from returning .
At its lowest point a metal piece projecting below the bob touched the top of a tongue projecting upwards from a hinge at its lower end , and leaning against the point of an ?
adjustable screw .
The connection between the two condensers thus only endured while the three pieces , the screw , tongue , and bob , were in contact .
This was only the interval of time required for ai pulse of flexure to travel about a centimetre in a bar of steel about 1 half a centimetre thick , and about a centimetre broad .
The interval !
was reckoned as at most about 1/ 30,000 of a second .
The plates were originally rather over a quarter of an inch thick , !
and after some observations of capacity had been made on some of\#174 ; them , and it had appeared that their resistance was too great to be 1 measurable , they were cut down on a turning-table used for cutting !
slates , to a thickness of about 3 mm. ; they were then fixed on a bed !
of pitch , and ground down by hand to a thickness of about 0*24 cm !
They were polished and properly cleaned , and then covered on both I sides with a dense and thoroughly adherent coating of silver .
This !
was cut away for a space of about half an inch round the edges .
1 Great care was taken to remove every trace of silver , and to make I the edge thoroughly clean .
While being experimented on , the glass plate was laid with one I coating of silver resting on a plate of copper at the bottom of an !
iron bath .
Another plate of copper was laid on the upper coating !
of silver , and kept down with a weight , and the connections of the 1 battery circuit , described above , were made with the copper plates .
1 The iron bath was placed within a larger bath partly filled with !
sand , so that the temperature could be raised by heating the outer I bath from below .
The results of the experiments are exhibited in the table which I follows.^ We have there given the density , specific resistance , j specific inductive capacity , and chemical composition of each speci- 1 men experimented on .
VOL. LX Xo .
Description or glass .
Den- sity .
Specific resistance ( ohms ) .
inductive capacity .
Silica .
Lead oxide .
* \#151 ; r errio oxide and alumina .
Arseni- ous oxide .
Potas- sium oxide .
Sodium oxide .
Manga- nese monox- id .
Total per- cent- age .
Remarks .
XXI Lead potash glass , made by Messrs. Powell and Sons , London .
3*495 Too high to measure , certainly above 18,000 x 10i ' at 130 ' C. 7*966 at 15 ' C. 7*630 at 120 ' C. 50*5 42*14 0*41 ... 6*93 trace 99 *98 Absorption effects in electrical experiments very marked .
XXII Lead potash glass , made by Messrs. Schott and Co. , Jena .
3*591 Too high to measure , certainly above 35,000 x 1010 at all temperatures to 135 ' C. 7*991 at 14 ' C. 44*5 46 -6 trace 0*4 8*0 0*5 trace 100 *0 Absorption effect slight .
Silica .
Boron tri- oxide .
Alu- mina .
Manga- nese monox- id .
Zinc oxide .
Barium oxide Mag- nesia .
Potas- sium oxide .
Sodium oxide .
XXIII Barium glass , made by Messrs. Schott and Co. Jena .
3*565 Too high to measure , certainly above 59,000x101 ' at all temperatures to 140 ' C. 8*5 .
No variation with temperature .
No absorp^ tion effect .
33 *0 12*0 6'0 1*0 43 *0 ... trace trace 100*0 This glass sho wed no trace of polarisation .
Trace of arseni-ous oxide .
XXIV Zinc soda " Jena glass , " made by Messrs. Schott and Co. * 3*493 596*5 x 10i ' at 43 ' C. 0*200 x 10i ' at 140 ' C. 7*54 at 15 C. Conduction too great at high temperatures .
67 *6 8*0 trace 0*4 9*0 5*0 10-0 100 *0 Considerable absorption effects .
XXI .
Flask .
Internal radius ... ... . .
3*741 cm .
External , , ... ... . .
3*522 XXII .
Plate .
Length of silvered surface 12*81 cm .
Breadth of ditto , ~ \gt ; / Specimens .
XXIII .
Plate .
Len gth of si 1 vered surf ace 18*8 cm .
Breadth of ditto ... ... 14*31 fe=-i::::"r XXIV .
Flask .
Effective area ... ... ... 209 2 sq .
cm .
Mean thickness ... ... ... .
0 935 cm .
Experiments were mad .
rth four di.erent in tab ... The factor o , diminution o , r\#171 ; i , Un. .
tsj r .
~* ?
' ?
al Properties and Chemical \lt ; 42 Profs .
A. Gray and J. J. Dobbie .
Connection between The resistance was taken after five minutes ' electrification in eact I case .
The " Jena " glass ( XXIV of the table ) , in both resistance| and capacity experiments , showed very considerable effects oil dielectric polarisation , which were a very long time in disappearing]* though the conducting coatings of the flask were kept short-circuited .
The dielectric polarisation of the lead glass made by Messrs. Powell was also considerable .
On the other hand it is very remarkable that the barium glasses !
XXIII , in the capacity experiments , showed little or no sign of I polarisation effects ; and we propose to make some further investi-I gations of the physical properties of this glass .
In our previous paper the results obtained with eight different !
samples of lead glass were compared , and it was shown that the( electrical conductivity fell off almost quite regularly as the amountf of lead oxide increased , and increased with an increase in the amounts of soda .
The glass which possessed the highest specific resistance !
( 8400 x 1010 ohms ) contained 40 5 per cent , of lead oxide , 7'5 perl cent , of potassium oxide , and 21 per cent , of sodium oxide .
Both !
of the lead glasses dealt with in this paper contained a still higher !
percentage of lead oxide , and were almost free from soda , and the I electrical resistance was so great as not to be measurable .
It is , of I course , impossible to say how far this result is due to the increase of !
lead oxide , and how far to the elimination of soda .
With the view 1 of definitely settling this point , Messrs. Powell and Sons have kindly | undertaken to prepare for us a glass exactly similar to XXI , but \ having the potash replaced as nearly as possible by the equivalent I amount of soda .
It should be noticed that the amount of foreignll matter ( i.e. , of ingredients other than silica , lead oxide , and alkali)|| present in glasses XXI and XXII is very small , and is less than one-JI fourth of the amount present in the purest glass previously tested , J which was also , it may be mentioned , the glass possessing the highjf| est resistance .
It is noteworthy that the barium glass XXIII has a very high resistance , and in this respect behaves more like lead than limel glasses , which have usually a low resistance .
It is impossible , how-j 'ever , in view of the somewhat complicated composition of this glass J to say how fai the high resistance is due to the presence of thel barium , and how far it may be influenced by other ingredients ] !
j especially the boric acid , which was not present in any of the glassell previously examined by ourselves or others . .
i^ena .
f^ss XXIV has a low resistance , as was to be anti-lj * , r 'm .
kigh percentage of soda and complex composition , ji he c'e"lcal composition of glass XXI is capable of being* expressed with tolerable accuracy by a simple chemical formula , and !
this is also m accord with previous experience , which pointed to the !
Electrical Properties and Chemical Composition .
43 conclusion that a glass , which approaches in composition to a definite chemical compound , has a high resistance .
Our knowledge of the chemistry of glasses is still very imperfect , and we cannot say in what way the silica is distributed amongst the bases .
We give , therefore , merely the relative number of formula weights of each oxide present , calculated from the analytical numbers , after allowing for the elimination of traces of foreign matter .
Specimen XXL After allowing for traces of iron and alumina , the composition of this glass may be expressed by the formula 22Si02,5Pb0,2K20 , or 5(Pb0,2Si02 ) +2(K20,6Si02 ) .
Found .
Calculated .
Si02 ... ... ... ... ... .
5072 50-53 PbO ... ... ... ... ... .
42-32 42-33 K20 ... ... ... ... ... .
6-96 713 100-00 99-99 Specimen XXII .
This glass is essentially a lead potash glass mixed with a very small quantity of a lead soda glass .
Allowing for the small quantity of manganese oxide , arsenious oxide , and other impurities present , and eliminating the soda and a corresponding quantity of silica , calculated on the assumption that each formula weight of soda is in combination with three of silica , we obtain as an expression for the composition of the lead potash glass 17Si02,5Pb0,2K20 .
Found .
Calculated .
Si02 ... ... ... ... ... 44-07 44-11 PbO ... ... ... ... ... . .
47-72 47-82 K20 ... ... ... ... ... . .
8-19 8-06 99-98 99-99 Specimen XXIII .
This is a borosilicate of barium and alumina .
After allowing for fithe small quantities of arsenious oxide and manganese oxide which it contains , it has the composition 28Si02,16Ba0,3Al2039B203 .
Dr. E. Taylor Jones .
Found .
Calculated .
Si02 3333 33-35 BaO 48-48 48-20 AI2O3 6-06 6-02 B2O3 12-40 99-99 99-97 Specimen XXIV .
The " Jena " glass is essentially a borosilicate of zinc , soda , and magnesia , containing 20SiO2)2ZnO,2MgO,3Na2O,2B2O8 .
Found .
Calculated .
Si02 67-87 68-05 ZnO Na20 1004 10-46 MgO 4-50 B203 7-87 99-99 99-99 " On the Magnetic Deformation of Nickel .
" By E. TAYLOR Jones , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Andrew Gray , F.R.S. Received February 8 , \#151 ; Read February 17,1898 .
On a former occasion a paper was communicated to the Royal ociety* containing an account of some measurements of the magnetic contraction of a nickel wire , and a comparison of these with the values deduced from Kirchhoff 's theory .
It was there shown j that the most important term in the calculated value of the elonga- j it )-zt/ tv\ w*re 'f soft magnetic metal is represented byl 2\#177 ; l(Si/ ^P ) , where H is the magnetising field and SI the increase of ] Dmgnetisation produced by a small increase of longitudinal tension 1 .
' area " The results showed that the observed contraction 1 m nickel was much greater than the calculated value .
It was then !
soug t to establish an empirical equation which might represent the 1 o serve e ects , and it was found that the difference between the ] o serve an calculated contraction was approximately proportional I to the fourth power of the magnetisation .
It was suggested to me at the time that this result should be ] 6j 6 j. rfpeatin ' experiments under different conditions in ] order to find out whether it was genei-ally true .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 189 ( 1897 ) , p. 189 .

