III .
" On the Augmentation of the Power of a Magnet by the reaction thereon of Currents induced by the Magnet itself .
" By CHARLES WHEATSTONE , F.R.S. Received February 14 , 1867 .
The magneto-electric machines which have been hitherto described are actuated either by a permanent magnet or by an electro-magnet deriving its power from a rheomotor placed in the circuit of its coil .
In the present note I intend to show that an electro-magnet , if it possess at the commencement the slightest polarity , may become a powerful magnet by the gradually augmenting currents which itself originates .
The following is a description of the form and dimensions of the electromagnet I have employed .
The construction , it will be seen , is the same as that of the electro-magnetic part of Mr. Wilde 's machine .
The core of the electro-magnet is formed of a plate of soft iron 15 inches in length and 1 an inch in breadth , bent at the middle of its length into a horseshoe form .
Round it is coiled in the direction of its breadth , 640 feet of insulated copper wire -L of an inch in diameter .
The armature , which is according to Siemens 's ingenious construction , consists of a rotating cylinder of soft iron 82 inches in length , grooved at two opposite sides so as to allow the wire to be coiled upon it longitudinally ; the length of the wire thus coiled is 80 feet , and its diameter is the same as that of the electro-magnet coil .
When this electro-magnet is excited by any rheomotor the current from which is in a constant direction , during the rotation of the armature currents are generated in its coil during each semirevolution , which are alternately in opposite directions ; these alternate currents may be transmitted unchanged to another part of the circuit , or by means of a rheotrope be converted to the same direction .
If now , while the circuit of the armature remains completed , the rheomotor be removed from the electro-magnet , on causing the armature to revolve , however rapidly , it will be found by the interposition of a galvanometer , or any other test , that but very slight effects take place .
Though these effects become stronger in proportion to the residual magnetism left in the electro-magnet from the previous action of a current , they never attain any considerable amount .
But if the wires of the two circuits be so joined as to form a single circuit , in which the currents generated by the armature , after being changed to the same direction , act so as to increase the existing polarity of the electro-magnet , very different results will be obtained .
The force required to move the machine will be far greater , showing a great increase of magnetic power in the horseshoe ; and the existence of an energetic current in the wire is shown by its action on a galvanometer , by its heating 4 inches of platinum wire '0067 in diameter , by its making a powerful electro-magnet , by its decomposing water , and by other tests .
The explanation of these effects is as follows:-The electro-magnet always retains a slight residual magnetism , and is therefore in the condition of a weak permanent magnet ; the motion of the armature occasions feeble currents in alternate directions in the coils thereof , which , after being reduced to the same direction , pass into the coil of the electro-magnet in such manner as to increase the magnetism of the iron core ; the magnet having thus received an accession of strength , produces in its turn more energetic currents in the coil of the armature ; and these alternate actions continue until a maximum is attained , depending on the rapidity of the motion and the capacity of the electro-magnet .
If the two coils be connected in such manner that the rectified current from the coil of the armature passes into the coil of the electro-magnet in the direction which would impart a contrary magnetism to the iron core , no current is produced , and consequently there is no augmentation of magnetism .
It is easy to prove that the residual magnetism of the electro-magnet is the determining cause of these powerful effects .
For this purpose it is sufficient to pass a current from a voltaic battery , a magneto-electric machine , or any other rheorotor , into the coil of the electro-magnet in either direction , and it will invariably be found that the direction of the current , however powerful it may eventually become , is in accordance with the polarity of the magnetism impressed on the iron core .
If , instead of the currents in the coil of the rotating armature being reduced to the same uniform direction , they retain their alternations , no effects , or at most very small differential ones , are produced , as no accumulation of magnetism then takes place .
I will now call attention to the fact that stronger effects are produced at the first moment of completing the combined circuit than afterwards .
The machine having been put in motion , at the first moment of completing the circuit 4 inches of platina wire were made red-hot , but immediately afterwards the glow disappeared , and only about one inch of the wire could be permanently kept at a red heat .
This diminution of effect was accompanied by a great increase of the resistance of the machine .
The cause of the momentary strong effect was , that the machine from its acquired momentum continued its motion for a few seconds , though it required a stronger force than could be applied to maintain that motion .
Each time the circuit is broken and recompleted the same effect recurs .
370 [ Feb. 14 , On lringing the primary coil of an inductorium ( Ruhmkorff 's coil ) into the circuit formed by connecting the coils of the electro-magnet and rotating armature , no spark occurs in the secondary coil .
On account of the great resistance of the circuit , which now also includes the primary coil of the inductorium , the current is not in sufficient quantity to produce any noticeable inductive effect .
A very remarkable increase of all the effects , accompanied by a diminution in the resistance of the machine , is observed when a cross wire is placed so as to divert a great portion of the current from the electro* magnet .
The four inches of platinum wire , instead of flashing into redness and then disappearing , remains permanently ignited .
The inductorium , which before gave no spark , now gave one a quarter of an inch in length ; water was more abundantly decomposed ; and all the other effects were similarly increased .
I account for this augmentation of the effects in the following way : Though so much of the current is diverted from the electro-magnet by the cross wire , the magnetic effect still continues to accumulate , though not to so high a degree ; but the current generated by the armature , passing through the short circuit formed by the armature-branch and cross wire , experiences a far less resistance than if it had passed through the armature and electro-magnet branches ; and though the electromotive force is less , the resistance having been rendered less in a much greater proportion , the resultant effect is greater .
I must observe that a certain amount of resistance in the cross wire is necessary to produce the maximum effect .
If the resistance be too small , the electro-magnet does not acquire sufficient magnetism ; and if it be too great , though the magnetism becomes stronger , the increase of resistance more than counterbalances its effect .
But the effects already described are far inferior to those obtained by causing them to take place in the cross wire itself .
With the same application of force , 7 inches of platinum wire were made red-hot , and sparks were elicited in the inductoriurn 2-e iincles in length .
The force of two men was employed in these , as well as in the other experiments .
When the interrupter of the primary coil was fixed , the machine was much easier to move than when it acted .
For when the interrupter acted , at each moment of interruption the cross wire being , as it were , removed , the whole of the current passed through the electro-magnet , and consequently a greater amount of magnetic energy was excited , while in the intervals during which the cross wire was complete the current passed mainly through the primary coil .
The effects are much less influenced by a resistance in the electro-magnet branch than in either of the other branches .
To reduce the length of the spark in the inductorium ( the primary coil of which was placed in the cross wire ) to j of an inch , it required the re sistance of 5-1 inches of the fine platinum wire in the cross wire , 5 inches in the armature-branch , and 4 feet in the electro-magnet branch .
When there was no extra resistance in either of the branches , the length of the cross wire being only about a few feet , the intensity of the current in the electro-magnet branch , compared with that in the cross wire , was as 1 : 60 ; and when the resistance of the primary coil of the inductorium was interposed in the cross wire , the relative intensities were as 1 : 42 .
In conclusion I will mention that there is an evident analogy between the augmentation of the power of a weak magnet by means of an inductive action produced by itself , and that accumulation of power shown in the static electric machines of Holtz and others which have recently excited considerable attention , in which a very small quantity of electricity directly excited is , by a series of inductive actions , augmented so as to equal , and even exceed , the effects of the most powerful machines of the ordinary construction .

