V. Observatzons on the fundamental Property of the Lever-ywith a fProof of the Principle assumedby Archimedes , in his Demonstration By the Read S. Vince , X M. F. 1R .
Se Read December w9 , sy93 1 HE want of a demonstration of the property of the lever , upon clear and self-evident principlesA has justly zbeen considered as a great desideratum in the science of mechanics , as the most important partsrof that branch of natural philosophyare ; founded upon it .
ARGH0IMEDES was , Ibelieve , the first who attempted It .
He supposes , that if Etwo equal bodIes be : placed upon a lever , their eSect to tirn it abotlt any point xs the same as if they were placed in the middle point between them This propositlon is by no nieans selfevident , and thelrefore the investigation which-h S-founded upon itXhas been reJected as ituperfect .
HU-YGENS observes , that some mathe- : maticansn aot satisfied with the prlnciple here taken forw grantedS haveg by altering the form of the demonstration , en deavoured to render its defects less sensible , but without SRC\#162 ; ess .
+ He therl attempts a demonstsration of his own , in which f he takes for grantedf that if the same wei\#171 ; t be removed to a greater distance from the fulerum , the effbet to trn about the lever will be greater ; this is a principle by no means to be admitteda whengrearea supposeel to he totally ignorant of the effects of weights upon a lever at differents distaxlces from the M } : ?
CCXCIV F:C:ss:b ) fuIcrum .
Moreover , if it were self-evident , his demonstration only holds when the lengths of the arms are commensurable .
Sir I. NEWTON has given a demonstration , in which it is supposed , that if:a given weight act in arly direction , and any radii:be drawn from the fulcrum to the line of direction , the .
* .
eSect to turrz &lt; itlae lever wlIl be the same on whichever of the radii it\#162 ; acts .
But some of the most eminent mathematicians since his time have objected to this principle , as being far from self-evident , and in consequence thereof have attempted to demonstrate the proposition upon more clear and satisfactoryAprinciples .
-:The demonstration by MAC LAU-RIN , asf far a-s it goes , ^ is certainly very satisfactory , but as he collects the truth of the proposition only from induction , and has not extended : it to the case here the arms are irlcommensurableS his demonstration is imperfect .
The demonstration givell by Dr HAMI0LTON , in his FssaysS depends upon this propositionf that wfhen a body is at rest , and acted upon by three forces , they will be as the three sides of a triangle parallel to the directions of the forces .
Now this is true , when the three forces act at any point of a body whereas , considering the Iever as the body , the three forces-act at different points , and therefore the principle , as applied by the author , is certainly not applicable .
If in -thisdemon$tration we suppose a plane body , in which the three forces act , instead of simply a lever , then the three forces being actually directed to the same pointof the body , the body would be at rest But in reasoning from this to the use of the lever , ; the same difficulties would arisen as in the proof of Sir I. NEWTON .
But admitting that all other objecF iionsC could be removed , the demonstration fails when ally two of the forces are parallel .
Another demonstration is fouhded upon this principIe , that if-two non-eIastic bodies meet with equal quantities of-motion , they will afterximpact , continue at rest , and hence it Xis concluded,0 that if a lever which is in equiIibrio be put in motion .
, the -motions of the two bodies must be tual ; and therefore the pressures of these bodies upon tlielever at rest , t put-itin motions must be as their motions .
Now in the first place , this is comparing the effiects of pressure and motior &gt; , the relation of the measures of which , or whether they admit d- any-relation , we are totally-u-nac quai ?
nted with .
Moreover , -:they actfunder fvery:0different Gircumstances ; for in the-former case the bodies acted immediatelyoin each other , and in the latter , they act:by uleans of a lwer , the properties of Xwhich : we are supposed to be ignorant of .
When forces ac-t on a body considered as a poing are directly against the same point of any body we only estijmate the eSect of these forces to move the body out ofits pla\#163 ; e , and no rotatory ; motion is either generated , or any causes to produce it , considerH in the investigation .
Wllen wea therefore , -applDr the same pm ?
ositioni to investigate the effbet or forces to gexrate : a rotatory motionX we mXanifestly apply it to a case wshich is not contained in itf nor to which there is a. single principle in the proposition applicable The demonstrat tion-gven Lby Mr. -tANDEN , i-nhisS Memoirs is founded UpOll selfLevident principles , : nor do : I see any objections:to his r-ea sonilag upon them .
But as his iwnvestigation cvn$ists of several @ases , and .
is besides very long and tedious .
sesnetAling more simple is ; still much to be wislied for propertovbe introduced in an elementary treatise of lnecllaaics3sotas rzot tQ perplex tXhe young studentVeither by the length vf the detnollstration , * or svant of cvidl-ence^ in its principles .
What I here propose t ; c F x oSer -wills I ; tho.lfe , f ten@:v0 the : ; whole : bBinesslanot ) only very siemple , but also perfe\#163 ; tly sat-isfAdtory .
Tlae demonstration given by ARCHIMEDES WOU-1d be VerY SatisfadorDr-and..f..elegant , pro:vided the princ.pletorl-wlticI:i.it is\#163 ; b:ur.ded .
&gt; &gt; could. .
; be clear1y xproved vizs t:haX .
two.equal .
potweat at theX ewtremities , or their sum at the ; mid &amp; slle ; of leveC fwo ?
&gt; ld hare equal effects to mozoe zt ; about any point .
Now , that the of ; fects will beDtheD samef so:far as respects any progressive motion bei-ng communicatedto t31et leverf when-at libert:tr to movefieelyj ist sufficierltly eleax:- , fbutthere is no evidetine : wha-tev-er that the effects will be : the same : to-$ give the lever a r-otgory motion about any point , because a very different motion is therz produced , and we are supposed to know nothing about the efficacy of a : force at different ( listances from the fulcrum to produce -such a tnotion .
Besidesf ; the two motions ; areunot only different , but the same forces:are knowrl to-produce d : ferent effects in the two cases ; rfor in the former case the two eqacal powers at the extremities of the ; armsr produce eqal effects in gerlerating a.prog.r.essi.7ve motion 5 but inwthe latte } : case they do not produce equal effects in generating asrofatory motion .
We cannot therefbre reason from one to the other .
The pnllciple , howevern may be thus proved .
Let AC , be two equal bodies placed on a straight lever , AP moveable about P ; bisect A--C in B , q^Bc P ; produce PA -tov -Q ; and take BQ=-B P7 1'O ' J\ : and suppose the end Q to be sustained by a prop. lNhen asA arldf C are similarly situated ln respect to each ; end of the lever -thatS is A P-C : Q and AQ=G Pie the prop and fulcrum must bear equal parts of the w-llole mreight X arsd therefore the prop at Q will be pressed with a weight Vequal Ito A. Now take awatr 0 tlseweights A and fC- , and put a weight a ; t B equal to their suS ; and then the weight at B being equally distant from Q and P , the prEop and fulcrain must sustain equal parts of the whole weight and therefore the prop will nowX also sustain a weight eq}al to A. Hence lf the prop Q be taken asvaya the moving fbrce to turn the lever about P in both cases must evidently be the same X therefore the effects of Aand G upon the lever to -turn it about any point are the same as when they are both placed in the naiddle point between them .
And the@:same is manifestly true if A and Cbe placed-without the fulcruln and prop. If therefore AC be a cylindrical lever of unifUrm odensity , its effiect to turll itself about any point will be the same as if the whole were collected into the middle point B ; which follows from what has been already proveds by conceiving the whole cylinder to be divided into an infinite number of laminaeperpendicular to its axis , of equal thicknesses .
The principle thereforeassizmed by ARCHIMEDES is thu$ established upon the most self-evident principle , that is , that equal lootlieo at eqgal distances must produce equal effectsX which is lnanifest from this consideration that when 11 the circumstarlces in the cause are e(3ual , the effiects must be equal Thus the whole detnonstration of ARCHIMEDES iS rendered perfectly complete and at the same time it is very short and simple .
The other part of the dem-orlstration we shall here vinserta for the use of those who may not be actainted with itw Let XY be a cylinder , which bisect xA * what has been proved the eff:ects of the two pakrts7Z ZY to turn the lever about A is fthesame as if the weigh of each part were collectetl into B and C respectively , whichP weights are marlifestlyf as Z+X , ZY , and which therefore conceive to be placed at B and CeX Now AB_ A X-X B -2 XY--*Xz_ 2 Y % ; and f\G = AY-Y0C 2Xy_I % Y2 XZZ consequently A B : A C : : 2YZ#IX Z : : Y Z : X Z : : the weight at C : the weight at B- .
; The property of the straight lever being thus establishedS every thing relative to the beret levers ilnraediatelys fol%ws .

