Some Observations Concerning Iapan , made by an Ingenious person , that hath many years resided in that Country ; as they were communicated in French by M. I ; whence they are thus English 'd by the Publisher ; who some months ago occasion d this Account by some Queries , sent to that Traveller .
1 .
THe Japonese doubt not at all of their Contry 's being an Island ; though it be separated from the Continent by such narrow Channels that no vessel of any considerable burden can pass them .
2 .
The Air is there very salubrious , but of another temper on this , than on that side of the Mountains , which divide Japan .
The Plague hath never been heard of there ; but the small Pox and Fluxes are very frequent .
3 .
Their Mountains are fertile almost to the very top .
4 .
There are found almost all European sorts of Fruit , Peaches , Apricoks , Cherries , Prunes , Apples , Pears , and particularly Pipins , Bon Chretien-Pears .
Besides these , there is an infinity of other Fruit ; but almost none , but what is also found in some part or other of India .
5 .
Silver is there in its highest perfection , but not used in Trade ; in which is seen nothing but Gold , and some small coin of Brass ; which latter they spoil by refining it too much .
Steel also is there very good .
6 .
The temper of their Metals was formerly better than it is now ; but yet they make Courtelas 's or short Swords exceeding good .
7 .
The great Mountain of Japan is higher than the Pico in Teneriff , since being above 18 .
leagues distant from the Sea-side , it may be seen above 40 .
leagues off at Sea .
There are 8 .
Vulcans or Fire-spitting mountains in Japan ; and you cannot go into the Campagne , but you discover one or other of them .
8 .
There are many Medicinal waters , and Hott-Springs there , which the Inhabitants use in their distempers .
They have particular Medicines ; but they let no Blood .
They make much use of Causticks , by applying upon some nerve or other the powder of Artemisia or Mugwort , and Cotton , which they set on fire .
They always drink their liquors warm .
9 .
There is so great a store of Venaison in Japan , that they care little for Cattle , though there be no want of them .
They employ most Oxen for Ploughing ; and they make no Butter nor Cheese , nor are they lovers of Milk .
They have great plenty of Corn and Rice .
10 .
The Japonese are proper enough of stature , and not uncomely in features ; they have somewhat prominent bellies .
They are exceeding active , and want no Judgement ; they are also military and valiant .
11 .
No Arts are to be met with amongsts them , that are not known in Europe , except that of making Lacca , of which there is some so fine and curious , that whereas in this Country one may buy an ordinary small box for 3 .
or 4 .
Crowns , one of the same size , when made in Japan of exquisite Lacca , will sell for more than 80 .
crowns .
The Author of this Account hath 4 .
Cabinets of this workmanship , which he affirms to have cost him above 40000 crowns , which he will not sell under 80000.crowns .
12 .
The Colours , with which they dye their stuffs , never fade .
I have seen one of them , which our Vermillon and Couleur de feu come not near to .
It is extracted out of a Flower , like to Saffron , and one pound of it costs an incredible price .
To try , whether the Colour will not change by Lixtvium or Lye , they apply an hot Iron to it ; and if there it holds , they assure themselves of the durableness of the Colour .
13 .
They have Mathematicians amongst them , and believe Iudiciary Astrology , insomuch that the Grandees under take nothing without pre-consulting those , that make profession of the same .
14 .
Japan yields divers sorts of good merchantable Commodities ; but chiefly all sorts of silken Stuffs , unwrought Silk , Amber , Precious Stones , Musk , Copper , Steel , Lack-work .
15 .
The Country is very well peopled and exceeding rich , being exceedingly stored with Gold-mines ; and I have seen some of the Gold-ore , which of 10 .
ounces yielded 8 .
of the highest fineness , and pieces of the weight of 120 .
marks .
16 .
Their Buildings are very good and commodious .
The Appartments are all below on the ground , separated from one another by partitions of Carton painted and guilt , which may be folded and removed like Skreens .
Their floors are covered with mattes , and somtimes with silken stuff , embroi ered velvet , and cloth of gold .
All their buildings are but one story high .
17 .
They have no other conveniences to defend themselves from Heat and Cold , but such as are usual in Italy and Spain .
18 .
They use the divertisements of Comedies , which are more brave then those of Europe .
The Spectators are about 200 .
paces distant from the Theater , which being covered with a vault , makes the voice of the Actors to be understood to the very end of the Theater .
They love Hunting , and Gaming , as Dice , Cards , Chess &amp;c. At all times of the day , and in all their visits they take Thea and Tobacco .
19 .
Their Language is altogether different from the Chinese ; but their Priests , and Courtesans , that is , the Learned among them , which bear the Offices of the Court , understand the tongue of Chochin-China , and by this means that of Tunquin , China , Corea &amp;c. They write neither from the right to the left , nor from the left to the right , but downward .
20 .
Their Government is Despotique ; the Religion Pagan ; the Christian hated upon no other account , but that some of those that there professed it , would persuade the Japonese to acknowledge a Superiority above the dignity Royal , disposing of Crowns and Scepters .
Their Morals are very good , their faults being punish't as their Crimes , even Lying and Detraction .
Their left hand is the more honourable , and they take horse on

