]\gt ; Mr. C. J. Lundstrom .
Boletin de Minas Industria Consbrucciones . .
Num. 1895 .
Escuela Especial de Ingenieros , Lima .
Physical Review .
Vol. .
No. 3 . .
New York 1895 .
The Editors .
Year-Book of Pharmacy .
1895 . .
London .
The British ical Conference .
Bickerton ( A. W. ) A New Story of the Stars . .
Christchurch , N.Z. 1894 ; The Immortality of the Cosmos : being an attempt to show } } the Theory of Dissipation of Energy is limited to Finite Porbions of Space . .
[ Wellington , ] 1894 .
The Author .
Bosscha ( J. ) Christian Huygens : Rede am sten Gedachtnistage seines Lebensendes . .
Leipzig 1895 .
The Author .
Rajna Sull ' Apparato esaminatore di Livelle costruito dal Sig. LeoJlardo Milani nel 1889 per il R. Osservatorio Astronomico di MilaIlo . .
JLilano 1895 .
The Author .
Flame Spectra observed at Swedish Bessemer Works By C. J. LuNr)sTRoM , Ortofta , Sweden .
Communicated by Professor W. N. HARTLEY .
F.R.S. Received April 1 , \mdash ; Read June 20 , \mdash ; Revised October 18 , 1895 .
Introduction .
As no examinations of the Bessemer flame from Swedish steel works had been previously made , I resolved , some years ago , to devote attention to this subject , in order to see to what extent the Bessemer in 8weden diifers from those of other conntries , and partly to ascertain whether the spectroscope might be of any practical use in examining the Bessemer " " blow My observations were made at the following Bessemer works:\mdash ; Nykroppa , Hagfors , angshyttan , and Ulfshyttan and partly also at Domnarfvet .
present opportunity , I beg to be allowed express my thanks to all the managers and engineers of these works for the courtesy I have met with .
]]ispecially I am gratefully indebted to Mr. Martin Nisser , ths manager of the Klosters Iron Works , for the interest he has shown procuring a spectroscope adapted to the requirements of this investigation , which he placed at my disposal .
Flame Spectra observed ai Swedish Bessemer Works .
This instrument was a Hofmann 's " " spectroscope a vision direct avec six prisms from Paris , consisting of a collimator , six prisms , telescope , one eye-piece , and a side tube with a scale .
The scale is lighted by Jamp , and the of the scale are reflected by the lirst prism into the .
piece , which can be moved by a so that the different parts of the spectrum may appear the field successively .
To show the excellence of the instrument , the following facts may be noted .
It divides the line of the sun .
The distance between Li ( 6705 ) and Na was .
The same band showed on the scale the following values : 42.2 .
means of an interpolation curve , the wave-lengtbs of this band were determined to be as follows : , 5354 , 5350 , , 5354 , The interpolation curve was made by numerous obser ations on the lines of the sun spectrum , the wave-lengths of which were taken from 's atlas .
By means of this instrument all the spectra , xcept t of Hagfors and Nykroppa , were observed .
The spectra Hagfors and Nykroppa were examined by a oscope of eneral Wredo 's construction , fing to the Royal Swedish Academy of Science , which instrument proved , , to be less suitable for my invesfigations .
Bessemer " " blow " " there are , as is well known , three The first is the so-called " " period which in all cases there is only a bl.ight continuous spectrum visible .
Just at the ning of the second period , the " " boil appears all the works under my observation , with exception of ngshyttan , first the sodium line , and then a beautiful band-spectrIlm , which gradually becomes more distLnct .
It attains its full brilliancy after the entrance of the third period or " " fiYling stage and then its radually fades until , upon complete decarbonisation , it vanishes .
It is this spectrum that in the following pages I propose to desigllate the " " Bessemer pectrum and to particularise the ngshytte , Domnarfs , Nykroppa , Hagfors , or Ulfshytte spectrum according to the name of the works where the spectra were studied .
At , as at several other works , the flame secms the transition from the first period to the " " boil\ldquo ; to assume a more or less intensely blue colour which soon vanishes , after which the ecomes more of a milky white appearance .
This flcvme gave at ngshyttan a beautiful spectrum , which ppeared suddenly and almost immediately in its full btness , which it } ) idly lost its coIonr and changed to a common Bessemcr .
This I propose to call the of the .flame , and to deHcribe it separately .
At the metal blown\ldquo ; contained a ively very large of silicon Mr. C. J. Lundstrom .
with a small proportion of manganese , and the npectrum differed very matcrially from the other spectra .
I shall therefore describe it separately .
I now pass to the description of Bessemer spectra from hyttan , Domnarfvet , Nykroppa , and Hagfors .
These in general have the same characteristics , and only in unimportant details do they differ from each other .
I. The L\amp ; uring ; ngshytte Spectrum .
( Fig. 1 , spectrum I. ) The following table of shows the different aspects of the twenty lines and hands that I observed at angshyttan .
In this the following table given under the column the number of the observations on which the value of A is based , under the heading of the presumable error .
Every one of the observations , , . . . .
been reduced by means of the interpolation ctlrve to ths waveIf . . . . . . . . . .
' and and if then is calculated from the formuIa In the fourth column the supposed origin of the lines and bands is indicated .
the description of the angshytte spectrum , sum of all observations made on the rticular bands indicated .
In the table of the blue flame spectrum , is the number of observations on the respective bands only that period when the blue flame appeared .
The Bessemel can conveniently be dividod into five groups , , ( .
The group efers to the red ficLd on the less refran ible sido of the sodium lines .
In this roup t 1lgsytte spcctrum has , addition to the distinct Li line 6707 , only three lines or bands ppear on a continuo background .
This continuous background , on which the spectrum appears , extends vard the violet side as far as the eye can see ( H ) , and vards the sidc with a gradually fading htness , so that the 1 line appcars on dark round .
The double line appears with a htness , and almost darkens the adjacent parts of the field .
Whcn the pectrum has gained its full development , the Na group oft appears as a broad band divided by a line .
On the side of the line thrce roups appea ] .
, , thati are sbarpl by grecn nds , and .
These have such ence tlmt the parts or continuous ound t tho made to appear as if were absorption-bands at these In the , and are hands , the ightness of decreases the side , and of which is the Commonly even appears as a l.ather distinct } band .
Oncc Mr. C. J. Lundstrom .
thel.e were observed two other faint lines .
The group consists of three bright bands that fade away towards the red .
In the group there are four equally bright bands that seem to fade towards either side ; the shade behind this group is not so distinct as behind the groups and The other bands of the spectrum , forming the group , do not appear so distinctly .
Usually and appear , bnt it is very difficuIt to determine with accuracy their positions , on account of their short duration and their want of lianCy .
I have not been able to put down the position of more than twice and it has been impossible to discover the lines and bands in the violet part of the spectrum .
After the disappearance of the blue flame , there only the Na and Li lines visible and hands and of this spectrum .
minute after the beginning of the " " boil and appeared , and also traces of , and a minute afterwards the spectrum was fully developed .
Lastly appeared the bands of the group , and these were the first to disappear when the proportion of carbon was and per cent. Then disappeared before the other lines of the group when the carbon was about per cent. , and generally all the groups had vanished when the carbo1l had passed down to and per cent. On warming the converter before the " " blow ' ' there appear generally , here as elsewhere , principal bands , and and also the Na and Li lines , but on the other hand , when the fnrnace had been relined , there appeared only the Na and Li lines .
Tf the instrument is directed towards the flame which arises from the fiow when the finished Bessemer metal is tapped from the converter , one may perceive a Bessemer spectrum which is almost righter , and more distinct than during the previous " " blow The group has several bands and appears very distinctly along fvith other groups , and this is the case even when the " " blow\ldquo ; has continued so long that several bands have disappeared before the converter is turned down .
At these works the Bessemer pig-iron contained\mdash ; per cent. of combined carbon , , , graphite , , , silicon , and , , manganese .
The Domnarf Spectrum .
I have only once observed the Bessemer spectrum at these works , have no accurate measurements recorded .
It differs but slightly , $ Wien Ber vol. 56 , p. 26 .
obsetved at Swedish Bessemer however , from the L ngshytte spectrum .
line in the roup was not present ; the two Saint lines in the group and the roup appeared very indistinctly , and no new lines or ballds perceived .
Nykroppa Spectrnm .
spectrum The wave-lengths of the lines and bands are givetl in the ] able .
al.e arrangerl the same manner as in that of spectrum .
This spec , trum has a different aspect in the of red rnys from that of hytte s , which , as I have mentioned , only consists of three red lines on a .
Here the lsists of a faint continuous which e from ) the , and becomes more spicuous and splendid more refrangible .
The band is refrangible by this continuouf , spectrum , on tJle refiaugible by a dark- ound e to on ) pcsr the line 6174 and the baud 6106\mdash ; 6079 .
I caunot posi tvhethel .
these are really or if only form illb of continuous spectrum , and are { lanked bands , cspecially the ) htness of hese tcr than t of the continuous spcctrum " " boil the } ) ndour of the ound gradually ense t Na ound the lines and .
They , of lration .
roup i , hol$ this erencc , that continuous behind before we notice the dark shade which its termination .
In addition , some lines appear were not at hyttan .
contain respectively each one line on the dark near the preceding group , which lines were nob observed at hyttan .
The group seems sometimes to be only a llebulobity , ) ally there appear fonr isbinct bands .
in which diffe1ent bands appeared couId be served than at , where the spectrtlm of tlJe blue fiamc passed into nary Bessemer specbrtlm .
Jusb the ' ' boil\ldquo ; , a faint yellow line appears very distinctly on coutinuous background .
( 5895 ) , and then the second ( 5889 ) of the , and at the same time the line , then almost ously } red band of the and the green ones remaill the whole " " blow Lastly appear the lines 5972 and and the bands of the gronp hese are also to disappear .
The disappearance of the bands is generally to the order of their appearance .
VOL. LIX .
Flame Spectra observed at Swedish Bcssemer Works .
S.3 towards 6350 .
Sometimes a line or faint band appeared at 610 When the converter was hot the appearance of the group varied incessantly , now being that of a bright band from 5585 to 5718 , shading away towards the red , now being a much narrower ons to 5608 .
The broad band often divides for a moment into two , an absorption line 5625 flashing out alternately with what appears to be an absorption band 5648\mdash ; 5600 .
If the converter was not so hot , only was visible as usual , was always visible , and sometimes also .
Of the group there was nothing seen but the 5153 .
The Nykroppa Bessemer pig-iron generally contained\mdash ; Two samplos of this pig-iron were examined for ganese ; the { irst one occasion when the had appeared very faintly , and othel ' one wheu four bands of the group had been distinctly visible .
The esult was that the former sample colltai]ed a littlc ltlore mangauese than the latter , which proves that the the proportion of manganese have no effect upon the more or less ( Iistinct of group The This spectrum differs the former only some s details .
The group consists here of a broad bright band with limits and .
This band has on the side of less ible rays the continuous backg)ound of rays , but on the more ible side of 6179 it has , as it seellls , an absorption band , which extends to the and bright band 6106 then the bright round adjoinH it .
In the group is a new line visible , and the band 5712 appears more distinctly limited lready at Nykroppa and Hagfors spectra fully agreed , except the following details , namely , the group of the latter spectrtlm was more oftcn indistinct , and that it never exhibited so many bands as former .
When the converter was being warmed there appeared certain hands , which were not visible during the " " blow a faiut narrow band with , and a distinct one with ) ) ( being the most brilliant ) , not , however , quite so briIlinn t as Mr. C. J. Lundstrom .
In addition there appeared the Li and Na lines , bands 6277\mdash ; 6179 , and pig-iron contained\mdash ; per cent. of silicon , manganese , , , phosphorus , and traces of sulphur .
SPECTRA F0R COMPARISON .
The Manganese Oxide Spectrum .
Simmler proved that compounds of manganese heated in , Bunsen flame give a band ienfels and Watts gave evidence of the Bessemer spectrum being for the most part derived from manganese oxide .
In order to ascertain which ] ines were to be attributed to , I the spectrum of manganese oxide belonging to the department of physics in University of Upsala .
the method of Watts , I used pure manganese chloride on Jlatinum wire in the en flame .
The spectrum observed very well with the spectrum described by Watts and Lecoq .
* But Lecoq described three manganese oxide spectra , ) tained by passing the electric spark of an induction coil from a platinum electrode through a solution of pure manganese chloride , which formed the negative pole .
The spectrum obtained with the short spark is a compound one , consisting of both lines and bands .
The ] vever , is more developed and rees m closely with Tbalen 's manga1lese spectrum .
He also obtained the same spectrum by making nse of a erate sized spark nearest to the no ative pole , but at a short distance from the surface of the fluid it gradnally passed into the spectrum the position of the lines of which are given in the table of wave-lengths .
It contains both lines and bands .
Some of the lines are absent , new bands have appeared .
Lecoq 's third manganese-oxide spectrum may be observed when manganous chloride is heated iu a Bunsen flame .
It consists of the most important bands of the lasb-mentioned spectrum .
Watbs , in his table of the spectrum , has given the positions of only the bands and lines which fully agree with his Bessemer and Spiegel iron spectra .
It is , therefore , only natural that I should have observed by means of the same method a greater number of lines in the green region of the spectrum .
* ' Spectres umineux , ' par Lecoq de Boisbaudran , Paris , 1874 , p. 110 .
most distinctly defined edge of measured , anrl the side towards the violet .
my hytto S in all spectra of Lecoq .
I it only in the pectrum menioned above , produced by of the flame of , but in a anese oxide spectrmn , which was obtained tho mining school at ilipstad by passing pure anous cintO the flame of a gasoline ] .
It is f ; urpl.ising that Watts has out this band , or found it recs with ) line in Bessemer spectrum .
Ib is true that this band , by rison with other hands of the group , seems a little the spectrum than in the Bessemer , and that one may therefore suppose that sonlc line of another element is present in the same place , but I am ) to agree with Watts his line to iron , on account of few concordant iron lines .
fuily agrees with my spectrum , and that of Lecoq , but not with that of Watts .
But , on the other hand , there is in the Langsbytte spectrum a line ( 6176 ) which corresponds to 6178 in Watts ' bpectrum , but which does not agree with the bands by Leco and myself .
It is , however , very difficult to decide how the mattcr eally sballds , but most likely it is owing to the well-kuowll fact that changes its aspect according to conditions of tempc- 1ature under which it is produced , several hands which are visible at first fade away , while others which at first are obscare lnol .
C. J. Lundstrom .
and more distinct .
is also most .probably due to , as also the other bands of the -groups of both the ngshytte spectrum and that of Nykroppa .
The band 5226 might also be considered to be derived from the same source .
Note.\mdash ; Since the publication of Professor Hartley 's two papers on " " The Spectrum of Metallic Manganese , of Alloys of Manganese , and of Compounds containing that EIement and on " " The Spectroscopic Phenomena and Thermo-Chemistry of the Bessemer Process 'Phil .
Trans vol. 185 , , p. 1029 , I have become aware that the bands attributed by Watts to manganes .
oxide , and which I have described as , are now for the most part to be ascribed to metallic manganese.\mdash ; July 4 , 1895. .
J. L. The Phosphorus Spectrum .
Phosphorus is known to yield a spectrum , the most brilliant band of which has the same position as , and this may serve as an explanation of the fact that appears much more distinctly in the Bessemer spectrum than in the spectrum .
Salet*and Lecoq have given descriptions and measursments of this spectrum .
I observed it in the Physical Laboratory at the University of Upsala .
A current of hydrogen was passed over a piece of yellow phosphorus , and through a long glass tube into the air where the hydrogen burnt .
To cool the flame , after the manner of Salet , it was surrounded by a rent of cool air .
The flame thereby appeared green , and gave in the spectroscope the band spectrum of phosphorus .
The bands of the varied in breadth , so that I obtained an almost continuous spectrnm with a large piece of phosphorus , while a smaller piece gave bands that sbaded away gradually as the piece of phosphorus wasted away .
By using a piece of phosphorus so proportioned that the most important bands were as naxrow possible , so as to be distinctly observed , I made a series of measurememts iu such a manner that only the maximum of light in each band was recorded .
As , however , these bands shade away both towards the least and the most refrangible rays , the numbers quoted cannot be very exact .
In the following table I give the values of obtained by Salet , Lecoq , and myself ; the figures refer to the maximm of light of the strongest bands , and , in addition , I give the bands of the Bessemer spectrum agreeing with them .
* ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' vol. 4 , No. 28 , p. 57 .
'Spectres Lumineux , ' par Lecoq de Boisbaudran , p. 187 .
By this , one call see agrees well with in Bessemer spectrum .
and in the phosphorus spectrum are to be found almost at the same place as and in the spectra , and they may , therefore , form part of the Bessemer spectrum , but it must l.emarked that there has not been noticed any these bands and in the Bessemer spectrum , than the spectrum .
The presumption that phosphorus should contribute to the Bessemer spectrum is incompatible with the fact that Bessemel metal generally contains a higher of phosphorus than bhe which it is made , which circumstance has led to suppose that all the phosphorus of the pig-iron remains the final product .
yses of the iroll and slag made during iods of a " " blow\ldquo ; prove , however , that the proportion of sphorus varies , so that ome may be justified in supposing ospborus may contribute to the heat of oxidation .
alyses made by Kessler .
proportions of phosin the lnctal : and Kupelwieser analyses of slags where\mdash ; I. Forge-slag ; .
Slag at the beginning of the " " ) \ldquo ; ; .
Slag at the end ol ' the ' boil\ldquo ; ; and IV .
Slag the end of tho " " blow give the following per ccnt .
of phorus : Kupelwieser has also calculated the absolute quantities of the lements of a charge , and found phosphorus , , in the pig-iron , and , in the final product , of which there consequelltly r , which has partly passed into the slag and partly through the mouth of the converter .
That under such circumstances the trace of phosphorus required to give the of this element volatilises , even under condibions .
C. J. Lulldstrom .
where the percentage of phosphorus in the metal is small , not then to be considered as too bold a presumption .
The Lithium Spectrum .
found in every spectrum .
Besides according to Thaleo , according to may be considered as agreeing with the sharp line 6097 in Watts ' Bessemer spectrum , and band 6106 in Hagfors spectrum , and possibly ib may part of the band 6106\mdash ; 6079 in the Nykroppa spectrum .
The Potassium Spectrum .
A spectrum produced by means of a potassium salt in the elecbrio spark gives a line spectrum , which , to the measurements made by Lecoq , chiefly consists of the ) , with .
with ) and , with .
At Nykroppa has been observed at once .
It may , therefore , be admitted as something quite certain that the roups in the Nykroppa and Hagfors spectra , 5832\mdash ; 5797\mdash ; 6774 and 5338\mdash ; 5318 , are derived from potassium , and likewise possibly lines 5828 and 5781 in the ytte spectrum .
The Calcium Oxide Spectrum .
Of this spectrum Lecoq has fine drawings and careful measurements .
The most important bands are lvith with , and with With traces of on a platinum wire , heated in a Bunsen flame , there will appear onIy the two first bands faintly , and of these remains longest .
I heated .
with traces of , on a platinum wire in a gasoline lamp , and then observed the red band 6277\mdash ; 6179 , and faintly the band 5532 , as well also the spectrum which was observed in he Hagfors spectl'nm .
Likewise , 1 obtained with a quantiby of , and a smaller proportion of , quite that spectl.um which appeared before the " " blow " " at , and in which appears distinctly , and faintly ; the band 5532 , and the appearauce of the band 6255\mdash ; 6211 in the Nykroppa spectrum might also be due to traces of Jihe Magnesium Specirum .
Another explanation of the band 5532 in the Yykroppa and Hagfors spectra , which also should explain the line 5712 , is given by * See Kayser , ' Lehrbuch der Spectralanalyse , ' p. 390 .
at redish B the spectrum of .
According to Liveiug and 1Ig gives in the he for , 5528 , 5183 , 5172 , 5167 , 4704 .
The brightly , and very distinctly , just } a little piece of ] has been placed in the arc ; it then rapidly dimiuishes , and by becomes very faint , or c.ompletely disappears .
same line also in the lvhen kell from a solution of In the spark all lines mentioned { bove are to be .
The no roups that correspond to in the sun } pear , , comparatively fainter thau in the arc , on account ( which one conclude that with another temperature fi1lother presslll'e the lines and ) would remain that is to , that these wolllcL diffcr from the lines , and this one migh explain the easoll } appears more di , stinctly in the fors s than in the The ] nesium oxide ] the sbarpest edge of its brightest :at and betler with the band 5002 in the b the spectru with the .
band , to which also its be uted .
Spec This } ' hns with ) ) may hc the oppa s II .
Spectrum the Blue Flame .
This spectrum visible only for a seconds ' ' blow and was consequently difficult to deal with .
Often when it appeared the instrument was not properly adjusted , or , owing to parallax , no reliable values could be obtained for the position of being of so a duration , there was no time to write down more than one or two lines a " " blo It seems , howeve to be of interest in more than one respect , and this account I have examined the as well as circumstances allowed , only making one or two observations of the and most rarely of the twentyeight bands and lines that are visible .
In the following table the results of these ations are given .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 30 , p. 97 .
Sce Capron , ' Photographed ' London , lS77 , Plate XI .
1 Lecoq , ' Spectres Lnmineux , ' p. S6 .
In the gronp the lines belonging to found in the Bessemer spectrum have appeared only once .
and double line always appear , on the contrary , very distinctly .
Besides many other bands which are observed in the Bessemel .
spectrtlm , , and there are the groups and and .
In addition , the spectrum of { he blue flame contains some bands that are so strong that the appearance of the spectrum essentially differs from that of the Bessemer spectrum .
All these bands shade off towards the red .
The bands 5678 of the group , an of the group , have a width and htness comparable to those of the band and appear more distinctly than in the Bessemer spectrum , and in addition there are six rather bright bands in the blue-violeb part .
The blue flame did not make its nce equally soon in the different\ldquo ; blows Sometimes it appeared immediately at the beginobserved at Swedish of the " " blow sometimes only after a while , and then spectrum was continuous .
In the formel case the " " boil\ldquo ; was hot than in the latter .
Experience has shown that the blue appears eal'lier when the pig-iron is strong in silicon , independently of the charge being cold or hot .
And if the treatment is basic , the bluc ftarne will appear sooner than if ib is acid , other conditions the same .
Comparison Specfra .
That severnl of the bands that are to be found the spectrunl of the blue flame agree with the Bessemer spectrum is evident , likewise that these are owing to manganese oxide .
From the fact that the more refrangible rays ] grow in brightness as the temperatu becomes higher , might suppose that the bands of the group and , and possibly even other bands , owing to manganese oxide .
spectrum which , other than that of manganese oxide , best that of the flame is of silicon .
Silicon Spectrum .
obtained a band by passing over silicoll , and SUl'rounding the hydrogen with au .
current in same mannel as in the production of the phosphorus spectrum melttioned above .
I have been unable to decide whether it is to elomentary silicon or to any of its compounds .
I have tried to oduce this spectrnm by ] 's method , but without success .
wave-lengths of the middle of the bands , thus observed by Salet , approximate closely to the most important bands which occur ) the spectrum of the blue flame , , and ( faintly ) , agrees to its position the band ; that in the blue appears greater brightness than the other bands of the group .
In addition to these complete eementc .
is also to be found between the bands 481 and 474 in the Si-spectrum and of the 4809 and 4778 , though it must be remarked that the COl.responding to is fainter than those of the blne flame .
are other reasons , too , for the fact that silicon , or one of its compou1lds , gives a spectrum where tlIe bflame appeftrs .
ring the slag-period reaIly nothing takes place but an oxidation of Si and Mn , which process of combustion occasions a considerable increase of the temperature .
These elements having passed completely into the slag , the carbon begins to buru , and the second period , * ' Spectres Lumineux , ' par Lecoq ds Boisbaudran , p. 43 .
' Annals de ClIimie et de Physique , ' vol. 4 , No. 28 , , p. 66 . .
C. J. Lundstrom .
the " " boi ensues .
It is possible that at the transition between these periods , the temperature may be higher than at any other time during the " " boil and part of the silicon may be vaporised and thus give this It would be reasonable to suppose that this spectrum should be chiefly owing to carbon or one of its compounds , but I have found no agreement between this spectrum and those attributed to carbon .
origin of the other bands and lines of the spectrum of the blue ffame I ve not been able to find out .
Sodinm shows a certain agreement with the Na-lines , 5687\mdash ; 5681 , , and 4983 , corresponding to 5678 , 5160 , and 4986 , but against this presumption there stands the fact that does not occur .
Though agreement as to position with some of ] ines of other elements may be found , yet one cannot , upon the whole , determine the origin of this spectrum .
III .
The Ulfshyfte .
( Fig. 1 , spectrum III .
) Having scertained that in all probability silicon forms part of the spectrum of the blue flame , and on being informed that at Ulfshyttan the pig-iron used contains much silicon and little manganese , I thought it would be interesting to examine the Bessemer flame by means of the spectroscope .
According to the tion given me by engineer Carl Carlsson concerning the Bessemer process at Ulfshyttan , I am able municate following facts concerning the composition of the metal : \mdash ; Carbof } , Silicon , per cent. cent. 1 .
The pig-iron from the nace cains 2 .
The metal in the converter at the beginning of the blue flame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The finished -iron. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
traces of The percelltage of oanese in pig-iron is per cent. per cent. , and in some this diminishes during the ' ' blow but it can hardly be oxidised even by iron fully " " blown more than to about per cent. Of sulphur both the -iron and tlIe final contain per cent. or less , and of phosphorus respectively per cent. and per cent. The blue flame * Memoir sir la termination des longuours d'onde ) aies metalliques ' Nova Acta Societ .
Scient .
Upsaliensis , ' 1868 .
Flame Spectra at appears intense tlnd constanb with a very bot cbal.ge , then the roportion of silicon is about 1 per cent. at its appcarance .
be last tenths per cent. of the silicon are not oxidised until nll the cal , boll is burllt , the final product receiving a very temperature .
Hero the chax.ge is thought to be too hot .
a normal proportion of carbon begins to decrease uponl the lapp earance of long visible nutes ) the eases more rapidly and the flame has become white , one be quite certain is no large percentage of left in batb .
The " " blow\ldquo ; lasts about 15 minutes .
With cold charges flame appears almost immediately after ection of the converter and it becomes hite very soon .
I did not , } ) ever , succeed in observing a spectrum blne undelhese conditions .
Dtlring my stay at Ulfsb !
-ttall the was never too hot but was always normal , and the to naked-eye more milky than at ttan , but it did spectrum .
A Besscmer spectrum ever , both during the " " boil\ldquo ; and during the decarbonisation .
and this diffcred essentially the Bessemer spectra cribed .
This is matter of course .
as the si ) of the man anese .
the -oxide inds are to be founcl of the ) and appear ( p. 94 ) .
' quite a diffcrenf appesrance of ordinary Bcsbelner spcctra .
In the red held tbel .
strong bancls vbich are vays v distinctly visible .
here are lines , one of hich ( ) see1lls , , to coix ) cid with the of a faint band .
away towards the left ( red ) the other is to be .
The field is chiefiy remarkable two which seem to be separated by an ption band .
Bettl'een those bands and the sodium line some bright lines and a band are to found and , in addibion , other bands lines which , vever , To left of the bands above mentioned there also on round of tinuous rays a narrow band and sevel.ftl distinct or possible bands .
in ich the lines appeared somewhat different in ' \ldquo ; and variably appeared first , and then the bands 5611 and 5580 .
Then on one occasion and were erved before the other es , whils at time eared after 5611 and 5580 , atter the bnnds and lines pret , ented { hemselves in the followirg order : , 5784 , 5867 ; , 5377 , 5258 , 5355 , , and lastly 5415 , 5388 , 5159 , 5099 .
he of the chief portion in the Ulfsbytte spectrum , I have been unable to ascertain .
Though several lines and bands of elenlents that .
be supposed to form that spectrum with it to some extent , yet one cannot state positively that } connection veen these spectra and the Ulfshytte spectrum .
* anding the small of anese in the at these works is no doubt that the most important of -oxide bands are to be found .
most of thom , and cel.tainly show to some all ance d that in the spectra mentiolled , a balld them , and near to Ulfshytte spectrum shades away to the violet than to the red , but this is only duc to a band of anothel element situated almost in the same place .
fact that two of bands are marked in the Ulfshytte spectrum as lines , only nifies that they are more sharply defined in this presume this is due to the small of mangancse the and to the high temperature of the " " blow " " at these works .
Presuming that the phosphorus-spectrum , described on could under favourable circumstances show sbarply defined bands so that tltey more resemble lines situated whele the maxima of \fnof ; g prescnt bands to be found , we have a plausible tion of the ] , and possibly of the appeal.ance of the band died t following for this ) of nation of the spectra herein descl.ibed , namely : \ldquo ; ' trllln A ' , ' sir 1 termination des Longueurs d'Onde des ' Upsal , 1868 ; ngstrom et ' Recherchcs sir les dcs ' 1875 ; Lccoq de Boisb , ' 8pectres Lumincux , ' Pnris , } ' : es dcs lIetalloide3 ' ' ( ' Annals de Chim .
ct dc ] siqnc , ' 1 ol .
4 , Paris , 1873 ) . .
C. J. Lundstrom .
5591\mdash ; 5580 in the Ulfshytte spectrnm .
gives bands belo1tging to this spectrum at 5538 and 5436 , which correspond to the lines 5540 and 5433 which were observed on one occasion .
The lines that I have put in the fourth column of the table as being derived from and agree as with the position of lines in othel have been described as belonging to and but cannot certainty be ascribed to them .
In the same manner it is uncertain whether the line with belongs to Li or not .
FinaJly , it may be remarked that 5642 agrees to its position one of the strongest lines in sulphur spectrum , and that some of the hands in the band spectra of carbon have a certain c:orrespondence , though the ongest bands are missing .
As to the spectrum during the warming of the converter , two bands may be ascribed to , the rest being of unknown origin .
With increased knowledge of these band-spectra , and of { , he effects of temperature and of pressure upon them , I hope that the mystery which at present surrounds the cause of their appearance in different works during different periods of the " " blow\ldquo ; will admit of full IV .
On the Practical lfse of the Spectroscope in the Bessemer " " Blow That the spectroscope in most cases puts a sharp mark on the momeut of comp-ete decarbonisation lvas estabIished long ago , but whether it can be Tlsed at all with the method we have in Sweden of stopping the " " blow\ldquo ; just as the Bessemer metal has so altered in composition as to contain no more than the desired percentage of carbon is more difficult to decide .
At Nykroppa the object was to obtain a percentage of carbon as high as , at Hagors as low as , while at it was required to be .
During a considerable period the changes of the spectrum at the end of every " " blow ' ' were observed , and the aspect of the characteristic groups were recorded as carefully as possible just at the moment of the uption of the " " blow The following table ( p. 98 ) shows the aspect of the under normal conditions .
By meaus of these rules I tried to direct the " " blow\ldquo ; and get a metal with per cent. of carbon .
The result of the first twelve blows\ldquo ; was metal containing 0.75 , , 0.60 , per cent. of carbon .
It may be obsel.ved here that a group of rays sometimes disappears and soon appears again with diminished ness .
The error in the value of No. 3 was due to uncertainty in observing , but with Bome practice such all error may easily be avoided .
* ' Les Spectres Lumineux , ' par Lecoq de Boisbaudran , p. 189 .
98 Mr. W. N. Hartley .
On the of some of the Lines no constant values were obtained , but on judging from similar spectra , on one occasion the metal contained , and another time .
per cent. of carbon .
The sole change that had been made was due to the slit of the meant having been cleaned .
This indicates that it ma be of some importance to have this so regulated by a micrometer-screw that its width may be accurately determined at any time during a series of observations .
The tempe- rature of the iron of converter may have some influence upon the disappearance of the bands , as similarly bands alrsady described appear during the " " blow\ldquo ; more distinctly if the temperature is high than if it is low .
" " Remarks on the Origin of some of the Lines and Bands observed in the Spectra from Swedish Bessemer Works By W. N. HARTLEY , F.R.S. Received April l , \mdash ; Read June 20 , 1895 .
The observations at various Bessemer steel works in Sweden , as described in the preceding paper , are of particular interest , owing to the number of accurate measurements of bands and lines observed in spectra of the flame during the progress of the " " blow\ldquo ; when different varieties of metal are operated upon .
As the paper was written , as I have been informed by Mr. Lundstrom , about nine years ago , the author was at a disadvantage in being unable to compare all his measurements with flame spectra of known origin at high temperatures .
Fallacious deductions are liable to be drawn by referring bands and lines in tho Bessemer flame to only such spectra as have been obtained by the arc or spark .
This was found to be the case in the of oxyhydrogen blow-pipe spectra Phil , Trans he1lce I propose to offer

