151 1888.J Protection against Infectious Diseases .
which before were large and well formed , degenerate into small and comparatively inconspicuous bodies , the starch apparently being used up in the formation of spores .
In all probability there is at this period a formation of xanthophyll , which would account for the yellow colour of the apophysis in the mature condition of the sporangium , and hence the name of the species .
That the apophysis performs the functions of a leaf , and is therefore analogous with the leaves of vascular plants , I think there can now be no doubt .
And as this structure is a development of the sporophyte , the possibility of its being also homologous either directly or indirectly suggests itself .
I am myself inclined to belieye that the two are homologous ; but to give a full discussion of that question would be beyond the scope of the present communication , IV .
" A Contribution to the Knowledge of Protection against Infectious Diseases .
" By Alfred Lingard , M.B. , M.S. Durli .
, Diplomate in Public Health , Cambridge .
Communicated by .
Dr. E. Klein , F.R.S. Received December 3 , 1888 .
It has long been known , and it is now a well-established fact , that various eruptive fevers and blood diseases from which the mother may suffer , can be communicated to the foetus in utero .
There is evidence fdso to prove that a disease may be transmitted to the foetus through a mother who is herself insusceptible to contagium , as in the case of a child having been born covered with small-pox eruption , the mother .
n8 Rnite free from it .
The following are the diseases upon which the most important observations have been made :\#151 ; Syphilis , smallpox , tuberculosis , anthrax , and relapsing fever .
In the three latter the organisms producing these diseases have been found in the body the foetus at birth , having passed through the placental vessels .
In the present paper I wish to contribute to the other side of the question , viz. , the relation existing between the foetus and its mother , ori in other words , the influence , if any , exerted by the foetus on the pother , when the foetus becomes the subject of an infectious disease con-^racted independently of the mother .
All the comments made from i 1 ii s^an\lt ; ^P'^nt have , with the exception of one , been in relation to f#th118 ' 'ne keing an instance communicated by Vidal , of a .
T backed at the time of conception with small-pox , the foetus at .months being covered , during the whole of which period the mother for^K116^ healthy- " With regard to syphilis , we are indebted to Colies Co .
e \#174 ; rst practical observation noted in 1837 , when he cited as a .
us tact , that he had never witnessed or even heard of an instance 1C l a child deriving the infection of syphilis from its parents , caused an ulceration in the breast of the mother .
Protection against Infectious Diseases .
[ Dec. 20 , At the present time , however , we are able to go a step farther , and S " ( 1 .
) That a healthy woman become pregnant by a syphilitic man , may give birth to a syphilitic child , and still remain healthy herself.* ( 2 .
) That this woman suckling a syphilitic child is not exposed to contagion from it .
^ This singular immunity remains only to be explained , and we have to determine whether it is not explicable , as one is led to think , by a special kind of protection derived from the foetus .
J .
Several years ago it occurred to me as feasible to attempt the elucidation of this proposition by means of some virus other than that of syphilis , this disease having been found incapable of communication to the lower animals .
For this purpose none appeared to be more suitable than that of anthrax , on account of the properties and life-history of this organism being so well understood , and also by reas\#171 ; ^| of the very short period of time this disease takes to run its course to a fatal termination after inoculation in most of the lower animals .
The results of this investigation I propose giving in the following pages I. It is possible to directly inoculate a foetus utero of a living rabbit with an active growth of anthrax , without the bacillary disease being communicated to the mother ; and further , the remaining foetuses of this pregnancy under certain conditions have been found to receive a like protection .
A control animal subcutaneously inoculated with the same growth died in sixty-eight hours .
II .
The mother may give birth to a litter of healthy young ones some days later , with the exception of the one primarily inoculated with anthrax , which is always dead when born .
The longest period of parturition after inoculation was ten days .
III .
The blood of the mother during the time intervening between the inoculation of the foetus and parturition does not reveal the presence of the anthrax-bacillus when examined\#151 ; ( i. ) By fresh cover-glass preparations .
( ii .
) By aniline stained cover-glass preparations .
( iii .
) By cultivations , gelatine at 21 ' C. , and agar-agar at 37 ' C. -(iv .
) By symptoms when animals were inoculated with it .
IV .
The mother subsequently inoculated with the blood of an animal dead of anthrax , whose blood was swarming with the Bacillus anthracis , does not succumb , but is found to have received protection .
The control animal died in forty-eight hours .
V. Twenty-four hours after this second inoculation to prove pro* tectionor otherwise , no anthrax bacilli were found in the blood of the mother .
Proved as in No. III .
VI .
The same animal , when re-inoculated with the anthrax blood eight months later , was proved to be still protected .
Presents .
1888 .
] VII .
The shortest period observed intervening between the inoculation of the foetus in utero and parturition , after which the mother was found to be protected against the inoculation of virulent anthrax blood , was thirty-six hours .
VIII .
For the protection of the surviving foetuses , or those other than the one primarily inoculated with anthrax in , a longer exposure is required than the minimum thirty-six hours observed to protect the mother .
Or the surviving foetuses may have received protection , provided that a period of not less than six days have elapsed between the primary inoculation of the foetus in utero and parturition .
IX .
In those cases where the mother died of anthrax contracted at the time of the inoculation of the foetus , and excepting the last-mentioned one , the heart 's blood of the other foetuses in utero was not found to contain any anthrax bacilli , as proved by cultivations when the examination was made , several hours after the death of the mother .
But if the examination and cultivations were made some sixty or seventy hours later , then any or all of the foetuses , according to the temperature of the air prevailing , may have anthrax bacilli in their blood .
[ X. The inoculation of a foetus in utero with anthrax may produce one of three results:\#151 ; ( i ) If during the inoculation of a foetus the anthrax bacilli gain entrance into the tissues of the mother , owing to imperfect manipulation , the mother naturally succumbs to the disease , ( ii .
) In some cases the organisms pass through from the foetal to the maternal vessels ; this is probably due to some change taking place in the placental tissues , either inflammatory or traumatic in origin .
( iii .
) Lastly , in those cases where the foetus alone is inoculated , the mother remains free from the bacillary disease , and at a later date is found to have acquired immunity.\#151 ; Jan. 22,1889 .
] In sections of the placenta of the foetus primarily inoculated with authrax in utero , and through which the mother received protection , the anthrax bacilli , after staining with aniline dyes , are to be seen wholly in the foetal , while there is a ' total absence of them in the maternal portion .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 10th , 1889 .
\#166 ; jHt- Presents , December 20 , 1888 .
transactions .
Berlin :\#151 ; Kbnigl .
Preuss .
Akademie der W issenschaften .
Sitzungs-berichte .
1888 .
Hefte 31-37 .
8vo .
Berlin .
The Academy .

