]\gt ; women .
The analysis of such a condition seemed likely not only to furnish important results as to the life history of creatin , but also to shed light on the strange metabolic changes taking place in the body at this time .
2 .
T\amp ; Relation of the Puerperal Creatin Excretion to the Involution of the Uterus .
Other well recognised conditions in which creatin is excreted include inanition and cancer of the liver ( 14 ) , and since a striking feature about these conditions is the rapid wasting of the patient , it has been assumed that when the voluntary muscle breaks down , creatin is liberated into the blood-stream and excreted .
This explanation was extended by to explain the puerperal excretion of creatin , but , in this case , the muscular.tissue supposed to supply the creatin to blood-stream was not the voluntary muscle but the involuntary musck of the uterus .
A serious difficulty , however , prevents the acceptance of this explanation , in that , while voluntary muscle contains abundant uteri 1devoid oubstance.aper ( ointed oreatin hvery tribution iature aound istriated 1obster ather hmooth mfvertebrate astriated 1vertebrates , represent types ohich contain nreatin Cbeen maintained treatin areatinin aresent iissues 1heoreatin cannot bound imooth , unstriated mterus .
ecause extracts oissues freactions .
Both these cests aiven bmany othersubstances they aroofs oresence odehyde , acetophenone , acetic aJaffe sicric agiven bducing agentH 2 It will be seen that a rise of creatin excretion follows the ingestion of the plaoenta rather than a falL Consequently it is unlikely that placenta eating explains the absenoe of creatin in a rabbit 's urine post partum .
The investigation was continued on women and this will now be described .
( a ) A Quantitative Relation between Creatin Excretion and lilk in Nursing Women.\mdash ; The women were patients at a lying-in hospital , the diet in all cases was creatin-free , in that no meat , fish or meat extracts were given .
Such a diet has great drawbacks because of the desire , mentioned above , which these women have for meat and tasty food .
The disappointment at the plainness of the diet often makes them depressed , and the mental condition is soon reflected in the poor progress made by the child , either because it is properly nursed or because the mother 's milk is of poorer quality .
This difficulty was especially obvious in cases of multiparae who had been in the lying-in hospital before and were therefore accustomed to plenty of meat .
Most of the cases studied , therefore , were primiparae , in whom mental depression was not so obvious .
Below are the figures obtained in the examination of four normal cases of oi1ildbirth .
They were all on the same diet and were living in the same ward under precisely the same conditions .
* The Lambeth Lying-in Hospital , S.E. , to the staff of which , and in particular to Dr. J. S. Fairbairn , I wish to express my indebtedneae .
A typical day 's diet , though it varied to some extent , was as follows:\mdash ; Milk 25 grue16 ( made of milk ) 5 , an egg , brsad and butter 6 .
Occasionally liver up to 4 .
was added .
94 Mr. Laotating Women .
$ !
*3 The Metabdism Laetating Women .
Women .
: I growth of a foetus*or the development of milk secretion .
Such a generalisation would include the metabolic condition of carbohydrate deficiency , where , again , creatinqria is present .
Also , the results of Mendel and Rose ( 18 ) , who observed the excretion of creatin in all stages of childhood and , suggest the association of creatin with the transport of material necessary for the growing tissues .
In most of the other conditions brought to light in which large quantities of creatin are excreted , it has been possible to show that the liver is primarily affected : such conditions for instance as cancer of the liver , deficiency or abnormality of carbohydrate metabolism , toxaemias directly affecting the liver as when a septic focus is in the abdominal cavity , and afoer operative interference with parts of the body supplied by the portal circulation .
It has not been possible to get any evidence of liver abnormality in the case of lactating women , but , by analogy , it might be expected that here also the liver holds the key to the situation .
The conditions in which creatin is excreted may be divided into two groups .
* We are endeavouring to find out whether there is any relation between the creatin excretion of a pregnant woman and the development of the foetus .
These latter two conditions I shall consider elsewhel .
REFERENCES .
1 .
Grammatikati , ' oentralb .
f. Gynakol 1884 , vol. 8 , p. 363 .
2 .
Zacharjewsky , ' Zeitschr .
f. Biologie , ' 1894 , vol. 12 , p. 368 .
a Slemons , ' Johns Hopkins Hospital Reports , ' 1904 , voL12 , p. 111 .
4 .
Heinrichsen , 'Ueber die Bauptbestandtheile des Harns wahrend der Gsburt u. im Wochenbette , '1866 , Russian dissertation , quoted by Zacharjewsky and Slemons .
5 .
8haffer , 'Amer .
Journ. Physiol 1908 ( b ) , vol. 23 , p. 1 .
a Nurlin , ' Amer .
Journ. PhysioL , ' 1908-09 , vol. 23 , p. xxxi .
7 .
Cathcart , ' Journ. Physiol 1909 , vol. 39 , p. 311 .
8 .
Mendel and Rose , 'Journ .
Biol. Chem 1911 , vol. 10 , p. 213 .
9 .
Krause and Cramer , ' Jouru .
Physiol " " Proc. Physiol. Soc 1910 , vol. 40 , p. lxi .
10 .
Cathcart and Taylor , 'Journ .
Physiol 1910-11 , 41 , p. 276 .
11 .
Landergren , 'Skand .
Arch. f. Physiol 1903 , vol. 14 , p. 112 .
12 .
LUthje , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol 1906 , voL113 , p. 547 .
la Longridge , ' Brit. Med. Journ 1909 , p. 1469 .
14 .
R Mellanby , Journ. Physiol 1907-08 , vol. 36 , p. 447 .
16 .
Chapman , ' The Analyst , ' November , 1909 .
Hildebrandt , ' f. exp .
Physiol vol. 44 , p. 278 .
17 .
E. Mellanby , ' The Lancet , ' 1911 , vol. 2 , p. 8 .
18 .
Mendel and Rose , ' Journ. BioL Chem 1911 , vol. 10 , p. 270 .

