]\gt ; On the Value of a certain Definite Integral .
[ Mar. 4 II .
SEMIDIURNAL TIDE .
Lunar midiurnal Tide .
True Lunitidal rrected ratio oolar { inch ( height ) .
Lunar Coefficients . . . . . .
, , ( time ) .
II .
" " Note on the Value of a certain Definite Integral.3 I. , F.R.S. , Honorary Fellow of St. College , Cambridge .
Received February 13 , 1875 .
Let denote Legendre 's coefficient of the order , and tha of the order : it is required to find the need not consider the case in which ; for it is an establishsd resul that the value of the integral taken between the limits \mdash ; 1 and 1 is equal to , and the value between the limits and 1 will be half this .
We suppose now that and are different .
It is that . . .
( 1 and also that Similar expressions , of course , hold for .
Now , by a well-known process of integration by , we deduce ; this formula can also be immediately verified by differentiation and tb use of ( 2 ) .
Thus and are both eYeu or both odd , the member of tl last formula will vamsh by ( 1 ) ; thus the only case we have to consid .876 .
] On the Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
that in which one of these quantities is even and the other odd .
Put , hen , for , and for ; thus we have Then by ( 1 ) we obtain finally This formula will be found to include the results which are given in bhe Philosophical Tramsactions for 1870 , pages February 11 , 187 III .
On the Determination , at Sea , of the Specific Gravity of Sea-water.\ldquo ; By J. Y. BUCHANAN , Chemist on board H.M.S. Challenger .
' Communicated by Prof. WYVILLE THOMSON , F.R.S. Received January 22 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) In the investigation of the physical condition of the ocean the accurate determination of the specific gravity of the water holds a first place .
The tolerably numerous observations which have been made in this direction , in a more or less connected manner , are sufficient to prove that the density of the water varies , not only with the latitude and longitude , but also with the distance from the surface of the source from which it is taken .
This difference of density depends partly on an ctual difference in saltness , and partly on a difference in temperature of the water .
The amount of due to each of these causes be precisely stated when we know the effect of one of them , the sum of the effects of the two by our observations .
Hellae , to determine the saltness , we elimin{te the effect of temperature by reducing the resuIts to their at one common temperature .
It is also necess that the means of obtaining the water should be of a reliable character .
In ting , therefore , the trustworthiness of the resuIts , we must considel , first , the means used for collecting the water ; second , those used for determining the relation between its weight and volume ; third , the ation of

