290 Dr. J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 6 , fundus ) as the sympathetic ganglia of the trunk stand to the spinal nerves , and that the ciliary ganglion may henceforth he considered a sympathetic ganglion .
Further investigations may show that the ganglia in connexion with the branches of the trigeminus ( fifth ) nerve may also be considered as belonging to the sympathetic system .
In conclusion , I may say that I have found the vestiges of the ophthalmicus profundus ganglion in a five months human embryo lying under cover of the inner portion of the Gasserian ganglion , and satisfied myself that the ophthalmicus profundus of the Elasmobranch is represented in man , as suggested by several writers , by the so-called nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth .
To , as far as possible , clear up the confusion that has arisen from mistaking the ophthalmicus profundus nerve for a branch of the oculo-motor or of the trigeminus nerve , and the ganglion of the ophthalmicus profundus for the ciliary ganglion , it might be well in future to speak of the profundus as the oculo-nasal nerve and its ganglion as the oculo-nasal ganglion .
IV .
" The Cranial Nerves of the Torpedo .
( Preliminary Note .
) " By J. C. Ewart , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February 13 , 1890 .
The cranial nerves of the torpedo agree in their general arrangement with those of the skate.* The ophthalmicus profundus occupies the usual position , but its ganglion lies in close contact with the Gasserian , and not on a level with the ciliary , ganglion .
The trigeminus has the usual distribution , for , notwithstanding the statements in the most recent text-books , f the trigeminus sends no branch to the electric organ .
The facial complex includes the superficial ophthalmic , the buccal , and the hyomandibular nerves , all of which have the same distribution as the corresponding nerves in the skate ; but the hyomandibular includes or is accompanied by a large bundle of nerve fibres which supply the anterior and inner portion of the electric organ .
This large nerve cord ( the first electric nerve ) has hitherto almost invariably J been described as a branch of the trigeminus .
When traced backwards , it is found to spring from the anterior portion of the electric lobe .
* Ewart , " On the Cranial Nerves of Elasmobranch Fishes , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. .
' vol. 45 , 1889 .
+ JE.g .
, McKendrick , 'Text-Book of Physiology , ' 1888 , and Wiedersheim , 4 Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomie , ' 1888 .
X Fritsch is the only author I am acquainted with who does not describe the first electric nerve as a branch of the trigeminus ( ' Untersuchungen fiber den feineren Bau des Fischgehirns , ' Berlin , 1878 ) ; he , however , speaks of it as being contiguous to , and as disappearing along with , the nervus trigeminus .
7 he Cranial Nerves of the Torpedo .
1890 .
] The glossopharyngeus , a slender nerve in the skate , is represented in the torpedo by a thick cord which escapes by a large foramen in the outer wall of the auditory capsule .
This large nerve consists of two portions , one of which is small and completely covered by the large superficial division .
The small deep division , which in its course and distribution closely resembles the glossopharyngeal in the skate , presents on leaving the auditory capsule a distinct ganglionic swelling , beyond which it breaks up into the branchial and other branches .
The large superficial division emanates from the electric lobe behind the origin of the first electric nerve , and at once runs outwards to reach and supply'- the majority of the columns of the anterior half of the electric organ .
The vagus complex consists of the nervus lateralis , the rervus in-testinalis , and of five branchial nerves , of which the two anterior are accompanied by the third and fourth electric nerves .
The nervus lateralis , lying superficial to all the other nerves , arises on a level with the root of the glossopharyngeus , and then curves backwards dorsal to the posterior electric nerve to reach the canal of the lateral line .
Shortly after leaving the cranium it presents a distinct ganglionic swelling , which is crowded with large cells .
The four branchial nerves for the four functional branchiae , the slender filament which represents a sixth branchial nerve , and the intestinal nerve lie at first in contact with each other under cover of the third and fourth electric nerves .
When the branchial and intestinal nerves are carefully examined , they are found to present four , sometimes five , ganglionic enlargements , and in addition ganglionic cells can sometimes be detected at the proximal end of the slender sixth branchial nerve .
The third and fourth electric nerves lie over and are especially related to the second and third branchial nerves .
These large electric nerves spring from the posterior half of the electric lobe , and find their way outwards partly behind and partly under the auditory capsule , to terminate in the posterior half of the electric organ .
It thus appears that all the electric nerves spring from the electric lobe , that the first accompanies the hyomandibular division of the facial complex , the second the glossopharyngeus , and the third and lourth the first two branchial nerves of the vagus complex .
It remains to be seen whether the electric nerves have been derived from motor branches of the nerves with which they are respectively associated by an enormous increase in the number of their fibres , as the muscular fibres were gradually transformed into electric plates .
VOL. XLVII .
z

