94 The Effect of Gravity upon the Movements and Aggregation o/ Euglena viridis , Ehrband other Micro-organisms .
By Harold Wager , F.RS .
( Received August 2 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) In the course of some experiments on the effect of various physical forces upon the movements of Euglena viridis , it was found that , when placed in the dark in shallow vessels or narrow tubes , a peculiar aggregation of these organisms takes place into network-like patterns or more or less well-defined circular groups .
The aggregation is only visible when the Euglense are abundant , and is more regular and pronounced in a shallow vessel than in a deep one , especially if it is completely filled with the liquid containing the organisms , and sealed up so that the upper surface is not in contact with the air .
If a narrow tube filled with water containing sufficient Euglense to give it a pronounced green colour is placed horizontally in the dark or in a weak light , the aggregation takes the form of a series of nearly equally spaced groups , like green bands , crossing the tube from one side to the other , and extending along its whole length .
Each group shows clearly two distinct regions , a central denser one consisting of cells moving downwards , and a lighter peripheral area consisting of cells moving more or less regularly upwards .
There is , in fact , a constant cyclic movement downwards and upwards , which is kept up so long as the aggregation persists .
Examination with a pocket lens shows that , as the organisms reach the bottom of the stream , they gradually separate from one another , and begin to move upwards .
As they reach the upper surface , they are seen to be drawn towards the central denser region of the group , and again enter the downward stream .
This aggregation , with its regular cyclic movements , may persist for several days , until the Euglense die , in fact , provided they are kept in the dark or under red glass .
In a good light the aggregation soon disappears , but reappears again in a few seconds when placed in the dark .
So also , if the aggregation is caused to disappear by shaking the vessel in which the Euglense are contained , it reappears again immediately the disturbance has ceased .
The ease and rapidity with which the aggregation takes place appear to depend , among other things , upon the activity of the Euglense .
Anything The Effect of Gravity upon Euglena viridis , etc. ' 95 which tends to inhibit this , and to cause sluggish movements , such as a very low temperature , may entirely prevent the aggregation ; but so long as the slightest movement takes place in the organisms , an aggregation may be visible , although it may be very indistinct , and only recognisable as a delicate ripple-mark like effect .
The aggregation does not appear to be due to any marked extent , and probably not at all , to currents set up in the liquid either by heat or evaporation ; and it appears not to be dependent upon the presence or absence of oxygen or carbon dioxide , except in so far as these may be necessary to maintain the motility of the organism .
The downward movement appears to be a purely mechanical one , dependent upon the specific gravity of the organism , and is not due to a stimulus which evokes a physiological response as in geotropism or geotaxis .
The upward movement is , on the other hand , due partly to the activity of the organisms themselves , partly no doubt to the upward currents set up in the liquid by the friction of the downward moving stream .
The upward movement of Euglena appears to be controlled , so far as the orientation of its elongate body is concerned , by the action of gravity .
If not crowded together , the motile cells of Euglena may move in any direction in space , but if anything interferes with their movements the pull of gravity immediately causes them to take a more or less vertical position with the posterior end pointing downwards .
This is due to the fact that the organism is heavier than water and that the posterior end is heavier than the anterior .
The network-like aggregations and groupings resemble very closely in many respects the cohesion figures which are formed , under certain conditions , when line sediments of various kinds , such as precipitates of manganese dioxide* osmium dioxide , etc. , are allowed to settle slowly in a liquid ; and the conclusion has been arrived at that such aggregations are probably of the nature of cohesion figures , due to the action of gravity upon organisms massed together , combined with the vortical movements set up when the streaming movements begin to take place .
In addition to Euglena viridis , experiments were made with colourless forms of the same species , with E. deses , Chlamydomonas , Volvox , Bacteria ( - Spirillum ) , and one of the fresh-water Peridinese , in all of which the phenomena were visible , but with considerable variation in the extent to which it was produced .
It is a remarkable fact that the movements of micro-organisms should be controlled in this purely mechanical fashion , but the advantage to those species which , like Euglena , are often found in a confined space in very large numbers must be very great , as by its means a constant circulation of them i 2 96 Dr. S. B. Schryver .
Some Investigations Dealing [ Aug. 12 , through all ' parts of the liquid takes place , and they are prevented from accumulating in such dense masses as would be detrimental to their existence by interfering with their assimilatory or respiratory functions .
It is possible also that some of the peculiar phenomena of plankton distribution may be explained in this way .
Some Investigations Dealing with State Aggregation of Matter.\#151 ; Parts I-III .
By S. B. Schryver , D.Sc .
, Ph. D. , Chemist to the Research Institute of the Cancer Hospital .
( Communicated by Prof. E. H. Starling , M.D. , F.R.S. Received August 12 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1910 .
) Part I.\#151 ; On the Action of Salts in Heterogeneous Systems , and on the Nature of the Globulins .
A. General Theory and Results .
During the course of some investigations on the action of formaldehyde on the proteins , the^observation was made that this aldehyde , when added to an aqueous solution of Witte 's peptone , produces a precipitate , and that the reaction could be either partially or completely inhibited by the presence of neutral salts .
This phenomenon was also noticed some years ago by T. Sollman , * who offered no satisfactory explanation of the facts .
The more recent investigations of Sorensenf have shown that when formaldehyde reacts with amino-acids a methyleneimino-derivative is produced , which is readily hydrolysed in the presence of water , yielding the original amino-acid and formaldehyde .
The reaction is therefore a reversible one , and can be represented by the general equation ( NH2)RCOOH + HCHO 52 ( CH : N)R-COOH + H20 .
The amino-acid is only completely converted into the methyleneimino-derivative-in the presence of a large excess of formaldehyde , and the methyleneimino-acid thus produced is , in contrast to the amino-acid from which it was formed , so strongly acid that it can be titrated with caustic alkalis in thepresence of phenolphthalein as indicator .
J hese results aie an * .'American Journal of Physiology , ' 1902 , vol. 7 , p. 220 .
t 'Biochem .
Zeitscli .
, ' 1907 , vol. 7 , p. 45 .

