]\gt ; ROYAL SOCIETY , MARCH 19 , 1914 .
Discussion on the Structure of the Atom .
Abstract of Opening Address by Sir E. RUTHERFORD .
When the etary of the Royal Society asked me to open a discussion on the structure of the atom , I very gladly acceded , for I felt that it was a subject which would be of interest to many members of ths Society , even if their own investigations are not directly connected with this special field of enquiry .
I should first like to point out that a large part of the work in modsrn Physics for the last 20 years has been intimately connected with the problem of the structure of the atom , and several very powerful methods of attack have recently been developed to throw light on its structure .
The discovery of the negative electron as a . .
constituent of all atoms much widened our conceptions , while the detailed study of radioactive substances has brought to light the remarkable series of transformathat occur in them , resuIting in the addition of more than a score of new " " transition\ldquo ; elements , which have a limited and break up with the emission of intense radiations and of a large amount of energy .
A of the scattering of swifb and -particles in passing through matter has thrown much light on the structure of the atom , for these particles have such great energy of motion that they actually pass th'ough the individual atoms , and are deflected by the i1ltense electric fields they meet within the atom .
In addition , the recent methods of studying -ray spectra by their reflection from a crystal promiss to give much valuable information on the modes of vibration of the inner constituents of the atom .
The proof that the negative electron was a constituent of all atoms , and could be released from them by a variety of agencies , gave a great impetus to the study of atomic structure .
It was soon recognised that a heavy atom must be as a complex structure , consisting of negatively and positively charged particles , which were held in equilibrium mainly by electrical forces .
A type of atom model , suggested by Lord Kelvin , has been developed and worked out with great detail and skill by Sir J. J. Thomson , and is now geItsrally known as the " " Thomson\ldquo ; atom .
The atom is supposed to consist of a sphere of uniform positive electrification extending over a distance with the ordinary accepted diameter of the atom , and containing within it a sufficient number of electrons to make it ically neutral .
This type of model atom has the great advantage ' that the distribution and velocities of the component electrons which make up the atom can he worked out mathematically in detail , and it has been shown that the electrons tend to distribute themselves either in rings in one plane or in sphericitl shells like the coat of an onion .
Sir J. J. Thomson has shown that such a model atom imitates in a remarkable way several of the general properties of the actual atoms , and affords a suggestive explanation of the reason why some atoms are electropositive and others electronegative , and of the variation of the properties of atoms with atomic weight as exemplified in the Periodic Law .
( 8001 ) There is one difficulty , however , that is common to all types of modeI atoms .
According to the electromagnetic theory , electrons in orbital motion must radiate energy , but this difficulty has to some extent been removed by the proof of Sir J. J. Thomson that the orbital motion of a large nunlber of electrons in a ring radiates energy at a very slow rate .
Although the atom may remain stable for long periods , it must uItimately break up , due to this uous drain of energy by radiation .
While the " " model atom\ldquo ; of Sir J. J. Thomson has performed a very useful service in indicating the general properties of the electrical atom , and has proved very amenable to calculation , it does not seem able without modificalion to explain some experimental facts that have been brought to light in recent years .
It now been definitsly established that when -particles pass through a thin film of matter , some of the -particles are deflected through more than a right angle in consequence of the close encounter of an -particle with a single atom .
This result shows that the atom must be the seat of intense electric or magnstic forces .
General calculation shows that the particular distribution assumed for the positive electricity in the Thomson atom does not admit of sufficiently strong fields to deflect an -particle through a large angle , unless it be supposed at the positive electricity is concentrated in a very small volume .
In order to explain such resuIts , I was led to consider the propertiss of a " " nucleus " " atom , in which the positive charge and most of the mass of the atom are concentrated within an exceedingly small volume at the centre of the atom .
The nucleus is surrounded by a distribution of electrons to make it electrically neutral , butextending for a distance from the centre comparal ) with the diameter of the atom .
It was supposed that the large single deflection of -particles was to their passage close to the nucleus , where the field is very intense , and where few , if any , electrons are present .
Simple calculation shows that the external electrons are incapable of producing more than small scattering of the -particle passing through them .
Regarding the -particls and nucleus as point charges of electricity , the laws of this large-angle scattering were simply deduced on the assumption that the forces between them were electrical and followed the inverse square law .
These conclusions were examined in great detail in the experiments of Geiger and Marsden .
They found , for example , that the number of -particles scattered through different angles agreed with the theory over a very wide range , and in general they verified all the main predictions of the theory .
Darwin has shown that no other Iaw of force , except the inverse square , is consistent with the experimental results .
The scattering of high-speed particles like -particles , in their passage through the atom , thus provides us with a powerful method of deducing the intensity of the forces in the atom , and thus throwing light on the structure of the central part of the atom .
From the magnitude of the scattering at different angles , it is possible to deduce the nucleus charge .
The value of the charge was found to vary approximately as the atomic weight , and to be equal to about , where A is the atomic weight and the unit of charge .
On this view , the number of external electrons in the atom is about one half of the atomic weight in terms of hydrogen .
It is significant that a similar result was obtained by Barkla from consideration of the scattering of X-rays by matter .
These conclusions were based on the theory of scattering of X-rays by electrons worked out by Sir J. J. Thomson .
' From these results , we may consequently conclude that the nucleus charge of gold , for example , atomic weight 197 , is about 100 units , and that it is surrounded by 100 electrons .
( Note.\mdash ; The value of the nucleus charge deduced from its X-ray spectra was shown by Moseley later.in the discussion to be 79 .
) From the radioactive evidence , it appears probable that the -particle is the nucleus of helium and contains two positive charges , and consequently ogen can only have a nucleus charge of unity .
Van den Broek and Bohr have suggested that the nucleus charge may prove to be the atomic number of the elements when arranged in increasing order of atomic weight .
On this view , which has much to commend it , hydrogen has one charge , helium two , lithium three , carbon six , and so on .
This important point will be referred to later .
From the scattering of the -particles by gold , it was deduced that the -particle must approach to within cm .
of the nucleus to be deflected through nearly .
This suggested that the nucleus of the atom has exceedingly minute red with the sphere of action of the atom , and that , consequsntly , the positive electricity is very concentrated .
This view is strongly supported by some recent experiments of Marsden .
the , theory , an -particle in a close encounber with a hydrogen atom should set the hydrogen atom in very swift motion .
Under the best conditions , the hydrogen atom should gain a velocity about times that of the colliding -particle .
To test this point , an intense beam of -particles was passed through hydrogen .
Most of the -particles were stopped at 20 cm.\mdash ; the range of the -particles in hydrogen , but a small number of scintillations on a zinc sulphide screen were observed for a distance up to 90 cm .
No such effect is observed in air .
There appears to be no doubt that some of the hydrogen atoms are set in such swift motion by the -particles that they have a range in hydrogen about four times greater than the -particle , and are able to produce visible scintillations .
-simple calculation shows that the -particle must approach within cm .
of the nucleus in order for the latter to gain its great velocity .
Now this distance is very small , even smaller than the accepted diameter of the electron , cm .
This calculation gives a maximum limit to the dimensions of the hydrogen nucleus , and it may be much smaller .
For these reasons , I have suggested that the mass of the hydrogen atom may be electrical in origin and that the hydrogen nucleus is the positive electron .
We shall now consider the bearing of the radioactive evidence on the structure of the atom .
The expulsion of charged helium atoms in so many of the transformations indicates that the nucleus is composed , at any rate.in part , of helium atoms .
The energy of expulsion of -particles can be readily explained by its passage through the strong nucleus field even if it escapes with little initial velocity .
The general evidence indicates that the primary -particles arise from a disturbance of the nucleus .
The latter must consequently be considered as a very complex structure on a minute scale consisting of positively charged particles and electrons , but it is premature ( and would serve no useful purpose ) to discuss at the present time the possible structure of the nucleus itseIf .
On the nucleus theory , the ordinary properties of the atom are dependent entirely on the nucleus , since the value of the latter must determine the electronic distribution .
The properties of gravitation and radioactivity which are unaffected by chemical or physical agencies must be ibed to the ( 8001 ) Recently Fajans and Soddy have put forward a very important generalisaiion to explain the variation of chemical properties of the series of elements resulting from the transformation of the radioatoms .
They suppose that the expulsion of an -particle changes the position of the ' resulting element two groups in the periodic table in the direction of diminishing mass , while an expulsion of a -particle changes it one in the opposite direction .
On the nucleus theory , this supposes that the loss of an -particle ( carrying two u1lit positive lowers the nucleus charge by two units , while the loss of a -particle ( carrying one negative charge ) 'raises the nucleus charge by one unit .
On this view , for example , the elements adium and radium should have the same nucleus charge as the end-product of the radium series , which is believed to be lead .
It is significant that both radium and radium are so closely identical in chemical properties with lead that they are inseparable it .
Numerous examples of a similar kind are known amongst the radioelements .
We are thus led to the conclusion that elements of different atomic weights may have identical chemical and physical properties .
If the nucleus chargss are the same , they should also give nearly identical spectra , for it seems unlikely that the mass of the nucleus will exert much influence .
No doubt definite evidence on these points will be soon forthcoming .
A number of cases are knolvn in the radioelements where the nucleus charge differs by unity .
Recently some very definite evidence on this point has been obtained by Moseley by entirely distinct methods for a number of elements .
As you know , experimental methods have recently been developed by Brag , Moseley and Darwin for determining the -ray pectra of elements by reflection from crystaIs .
The frequency of vibratio1l , which is about 1000 times greater than for the shortest light waves , can be directly deduced from the structure of the crystal .
When an element is exposed as anticathode in an -ray tube , it emits its characteristic radiation and its spectrum is examined by the crystal method .
Moseley examined in this way the spectra of twelve conelements from calcium to nickel .
The spectra of all these elements are similar in type , consisting essentially of two strong lines .
The frequency of these lines was found to increase by definite steps in passing from one element to the next .
Without discussing the theory of the origin of these spectra , it ffices to say that the frequency found to be proportional to where was a whole number and a constant about unity .
in this case was a whole number which varied by unity from 20 for calcium to 30 for zinc , and corresponded to the atomic number or nucleus charge .
These results thus show clearly that the mode of vibration of the interior of the atom is closely connected with the number which is believed to be a measure of the nucleus charge .
I understand that Mr. Moseley has still further experimental results to contribute later in the discussion .
I have so far not dealt with the important question of the distribution of the external electrons which make up the atom .
It is obvious there are great difficulties on the ordinary mechanics in considering possible distributions , for there is no reason why an electron if disturbed should not always fall into the * Since the discussion Andlade and I have shown that.the strong lines of the -ray spectrum of radium are identical with the oharacteristic Spectrum of lead .
Evidence has also been obtained by several investigators that the atomic weight of lead formed from radioactive matter differs from that of ordinary lead .
5 \amp ; nucleus .
order to overcome these difficulties , Bohr has supposed that the electron may take up a number of definite positions with regard to the nucleus , corresponding to what he calls " " the stationary states A radiation of definite frequency is supposed to be emitted when an electron falls from one stationary state to another .
By introducing a conception connected with Planck 's quantum , he has attempted to explain the origin of the series spectra of the simple elements , and has shown that the fundamental frequency is in close accord with experiment .
The atom of hydrogen is supposed to be the simplest possible structure consisting a nucleus of unit charge and one electron .
The complexity of the spectrum in this case is supposed to be due not to the complexity of the atom but to the number of possible stationary states which the can take up .
In a similar way , he supposes the atom of helium to consist of a nucleus of two and two electrons , and has given reasons for believing that some recently discovered spectra which have been attributed to hydrogen in reality belong to helium .
This question is , however , still subjudice .
The structure of a number of elements has been indicated along these lines , supposing that the nucleus charge increases by unity in passing from otle atom to the next .
has also discuaeed the structure of the hydrogen molecule , which is supposed to consist of two hydrogen nuclei with a ring of two electrons rotating between them .
The heat of tion has been calculated and is in fair accord the latest experimental data .
He finds that the helium atom as constructed refuses to unite with another helium atom or with a hydrogen atom .
This is iu agreement with the observed behaviour of helium .
While it is too early to say definitely whether the theories of Bohr are valid , his contribntions to the structure of simple atoms and their spectra are of great importance and intsrest .
In this address I have endeavoured to point out briefly the main of attack on this question , and the point of view that at present guides the investigations of myselfand others in this most difficult and interesting of problems .
Mr. H. MOSELEY : The chief difficulty at the present moment in disctlssing the structure of the atom is that the experimental methods by which we can get anywhere near to the centre of the atom are extremely few .
We may say that Sir Ernest Rutherford 's view of the atom arose originally and is based principally upon the one all-important fact of the scattering of the -particles .
The -particle is the only thing which can penetrnte sufficiently deeply into the atom to find out about the central part of the atom .
If we are ever going to find out what is the structuro of the atom , it will be from the middle outwards .
I want to show you that the -ray spectra of the elements give a rather hopeful method of adding to our information .
The possibihty of analysing the -ray spectra we owe to the work of Prof. Brag and his son .
The only way in which the work which I have followed out differs from theirs is that , while they used electrical methods , I have registered the spectra photographioally .
It happens that when a very large number of .
elements have to be rapidly investigated the photographic method is much quicker than the electrical method .
*Owing to Mr. Moseley 's from England , the proofs of the stenographic port of his remarks have been ( orrected for him Ernest Rutherford .
An account of these experiments MoseleyApril , .
has been given in two papers in the ' Philosophioal Magazine , ' Dec. , 1913 , and The first slide shows the most convenient kind of -ray tube to use for this work .
It is simply a very large -ray tube of 3 litres capat .
The different which are going to be bombarded by the stream of cathode rays , in order to excite their characteristic X-radiations , are mounted on a movable anticathode .
These specimens may be in the form of elements , alloys , or .
In many cases I have used thin layers of the metallic oxides spread over a plate of nickel , for example .
The substances are bombarded by the cathode rays , and the stream of -radiation mingled with the characteristic monochromatic rays goes through a fine limiting slit .
They pass out in a divergent stream and fall on the reflecting crystal .
The peculiarit .
, as Brag has shown , of the reflection from crystals of these monochromatic rays is that they are only reflected when there is a certain definite connection between the wave-length and the angle at which they strike the crystal .
Possibly only one of the different kinds of radiation will hit the crystal at such an angle that it can be reflectsd .
The reflected rays have this remarkable property that , although the incident beam is divergent , a sharply defined line of about the same breadth as the original slit is found on the photographic plate .
I have examined by this method a large number of elements or their compounds .
This slide shows one of the earliest photographs obtained for omium .
There is one extremely strong line and another much fainter line of about 10 per cent. greater frsquency .
The spectrum shown for chromium is to be ascribed to\ldquo ; \ldquo ; characteristic radiation of that element .
For elements of atomic weight greater than silver , the spectrum of the " " \ldquo ; series of Barkla has been determined .
spectrum consists mainly of three lines , , which are clearly shown in the spectrum of lanthanum , for example .
In this slide are given the collected results for all the elemenbs that so far I have been able to investigate .
I thought that it was better at first to make a general rough survey of the spectra of as many elements as possible , rather than to go into very elaborate detail .
We shall first consider the spectra of the series between aluminium and silver .
On this diagram the abscissae represent the square root of the frequency , and the successive elements are on the vertical scale at equal intervals .
Suppose that we begin with aluminium .
This represents the very strong line of aluminium corresponding to the strong line of chromium shown previously , and this the weaker line of just a few per cent. greater frequency .
On coming to silicon , we get exactly the same phenomenon repeated .
Here is chlorine , of which at present I have only measured the strongest line .
Here are potassium , calcium , titanium , manganese , iron , cobalt , nickel , copper , zinc .
After a gap we come on to yttrium , zirconium , and so on .
You see that the square root of the frequencies of these strong lines plotted against the successive elements placed at equal intervaIs on this vertical scale fall on a straight ] , or rather a line that is straight at first and then bends over slightly .
At the latter part we are dealing with very high frequencies , so that whatever is giving this must be treated mathematically as an electromagnetic problem and not as the purely electrostatic problem which is usually taken to suit the lower frequencies .
The other fainter lines also fall on a very good straight line , as far as they have been traced , though for the high frequencies only the principal line has been investigated .
In making this diagram the elements , from aluminium , have been arranged not exactlyin the order of increasing atomic weight , but in the order of Mendeleefl 's periodic table ; that is the order of the atomic weight except in the few cases where this clashes with the order of the gradually changing chemical properties .
Here , for example , we have the order , chlorine , argon , potassium , calcium , instead of the atomic weight order , chlorine , potassium , argon , calcium .
If the atomic weight order were used the spectrum lines would be thrown completely off this straight line ; so we see that we are justified in taking them in the above order .
Here , again , the chemical order , iron , cobalt , nickel , is chosen instead of atomic ight order , iron , nickel , cobalt .
It will be observed that the elements have all been spaced at equal distances .
This means that in order to get some definite simple relation between the frequency and the element we must ascribe to each element an integer .
This integer can hardly be anything else than the atomic number , the charge on the central nucleus , about which Sir Ernest Rutherford has been speaking , and the fact that the atomic number is about half the atomic weight fits in well with- this .
We ascribe to aluminium the atomic number 13 , though in this point we are not supported by definite experimental evidence .
The atomic number of ogen is known to be 1 , that of helium is 2 , so that unless , which is extraordinarily unlikely , the chemists have missed an element before aluminium , the latter , the 13th element , has the atomic number 13 .
The resuIts show that no elements are missing between aluminium and silver , except for one gap left for a homologue of manganese .
Let us next consider the elements of the series .
it is not very difficult experimentally to overlap from the series to the ; that is to say , for some elements both the and the series spectra can be measured .
I might mention in passing that the characteristic of very long wavelength in this part of the diagram are rather troublesome to because they havr such extremely small power of penetration .
A radiation of this kind is practically stopped by a centimetre of air .
Therefore , it is necessary in investigating them to use a special vacuum spectrometer .
In these series spectra the strongest principal line is called , and , as before , is the line of smallest frequency .
The points for successive elements lie on a definite regular curve which bends a little and is not quite a straight line .
The line , the next in order of intensity , also lies on a smooth curve which is very much bent .
The third line gives practically a straight line .
There is another line which at presenb I have only found in the region of the rare earths , although very probably it also appears elsewhere .
The results do not pretend to be in the least complete .
Theline for platinum was originally called by Prof. Brag .
These two lines and were called before he knew that the line was double .
There are also some fainter lines of higher frequency not given on this diagram .
What I want to insist upon is the fact that each of the elements has got a spectrum extremely like that of its neighbour .
It is obvious that whatever is giving this spectrum is the corresponding system in the different elsments and that its properties actually change as a function of the atomic number .
The continuity of these curves shows that the order in which we have arranged the elements must be correct .
I must say a few words about the way in which this order has arrived at .
In any doubtful instance it has been so arranged that the elements all lie on a straight line .
Chemistry always suspected that there was an ] homologue of manganese between molybdenum and ruthenium , Already in the ser.ies spectra it has proved necessary to leave a space for such an element .
If this element No. 43 exists at all , it ought to be very easily detected , because the frequencies of the two principal lines of its -ray spectrum can be predicted lvith certainty .
It is necessary also to leave a space for another homologue of manganese between tungsten and osmium .
The only other doubtful is the number of the rare-earth elements .
There has been a very large amount of extremely skilled chemical work done in separating these elements , but it is still a matter of some doubt whether some of them are really simple , or whether they ars mixtures .
It has been shown that what we used to call ytterbium is a mixture of two elements now known as -ytterbium and lutecium .
Vacant spaces are left for these two elements .
I find that between erbium and tantalum there are only four places to spare .
The spectrum of erbium was determined from two specimens .
The first was a specimen which Sir William Crookes had the very great kindness to give me .
It gave faintly the strongest line of both elements , thulium I and thulium II .
There is no doubt that the two different kinds of thulium are exeedingly difficult to separate completely from erbium .
The erbia also contains traces of dysprosium and of holmium .
Another sample of erbia contained quite 50 per cent. of holmium , or rather of the element whose atomic number is 66 , which I take to be holmium .
Welsbach has actually separated thulium into two different substances , and his assertion that there is a third is based on rather more indirect evidence .
We will now look alittle more closely into the question of the relation between the square root of the frequency and the atomic number .
From the cnrves we saw that the square root of the frequency lras a linear function of the atomic number N. So we have the frequency .
If we take the strongest line of the series , we find that this constant A is numerically equal to here v is Rydberg 's fundamental frequency for ordinary line spectra .
I have written it in this form because it is then identical with that which one would for the principal line from the theory of Bohr .
The constant is equal to 1 .
Considering the principal line in the series , the constant , equal to about , i.e. , Thus for line while for the line Of course , one cannot determine the value of A closer than a few per cent. because we saw that the principal line of the series , when the square root of the frequency was plotted against the number , was not quite a straight line .
It is very likely merely a coincidence that the value of A happens to come in that form .
But I am intending to look for the series and the series , and , if they ex , to examins whether they also have constants of this kind .
I should like to point out that for the series the value of is considerably larger th for the series .
The complete ence between the grouping of the lines for an the series and the series , and the fact that the constant , which I suppoSe 9 S to represent the aotion of the electrons in neutralising the force exerted by the central charge , is very different in the two cases , suggests that th9 series .
corresponds to the vibrations of the inside ring , and the series to the vibrations of the next ring outside it .
slide is of interest since it shows the spectrum of the specimen of erbium which Sir William Crookes gave me .
The , 13 , and lines are clearly ssen ; also a line of dysprosium , while the principal line of holmium is just visible. .
It shows how these spectra can be utilised to determine the purity of the : 8pecimens .
The next slide gives the atomic numbers of all the elements , assuming that .
we are right in saying that aluminium is No. 13 .
You will notice that the : )numbers up to 79 have been put in from the evidence of the -ray After gold , No. 79 , we assume Ihat the same law continues to hold for the two elements , mercury and thallium , which I have not yet investigated .
After thallium we get into the region which Mr. Soddy has been studying , .
and , from the evidence given him , we can deduce the atomic numbers of all the other radioactive elements up to uranium .
You see that there is one more element missing , a homologus of chlorine , and also a homologue of sodium , but it says a good deal for ffie extraordinary skill and of the chemists , that in the whole list there only seem to be five unknown possible elements .
Mr. P SODDY : I have listened with very great interest to the discussion opened by Sir Ernest Rutherford upon the structure of the atom , and though of course I am not competent to the nuclear atom , if I may give it a name , from the mathematical or the physical side , I may say that generally in the broadest way I am in full agreement with that model .
I have certainly found it very helpful in my own particular field of work in radioactive investigations .
Prof. .
more than ten years ago , showed that an -particle could go hrough all the atoms it met in its path without suffering any appreciable deflection- It is only a particle moving at these ultra-material speeds , speeds which are about.one-tenth of the speed of light , such as the -particle , which can penetrate the atom , and , as the genius of Sir Ernest Rutherford has shown , it may tell us something about what it is that it has passed through .
The fact that the law of Brag is not actually obeyed and that there are these rare single scatterings , to use Sir Ernest Rutherford 's term , I think , without any theory whatever , does show that we have to deal with a nebular atom with a hard nucleus .
I am not very friendly to the general idea of the electrical theory of matter ; but , without any particular assumption as to the nature of the atom , I think that the results of scattering as shown by Prof. Rutherford do undoubtedly prove that we have to deal with a nebular atom which has a hard point in it , a hard scattering point which can deflect a heavy atom travelling at very considerable velocity .
I content .
myself by merely saying that , of course , the electrical theory of matter has now undergone very profound change , because in the Thomson atom there was an attempt made to preserve stability , an attempt which was not altogether successful .
But with this new atom we have got beyond any such attempt to preserve stability .
Because it is perfectly obvious that this nuclear atom , whatever the nature of it may be , cannot obey the ordinary laws of electricity .
You could not by any known means concentrate into a space , 10-13 cm .
in radius , 100 atomic charges of the same sign .
There is no known way of doing it .
You have endowed electricity with the attributes of matter , rather than explained matter in of electricity .
Passing to my own line of work on this subject , let me bnefly describe what led me to the view that there exist in the radioactive series certain elements which had identical chemical properties .
It was known before that there were certain radioactive elements , radio-lead , for example , which aordinarily closely resembled other elements , such as ordinary lead .
My first practical experience came in connection with meso-thorium .
The chemical nature of meso-thorium having been kept a technical secret by its discoverer , I had to work it out for myself , and I was amazed to find that , though of a different atomic weight , it yet possessed properties chemically identical with those of radinm , and by no known process could you separate those two elements once they were mixed .
The work has been carried on by Mr. Fleck at Glasgow , who has investigated all the radioactive elements in turn , to see , firstly , whether they resembled any known elemsnt , and , secondly , whether they were separable from that element .
He showed that every single member of the radioactive series , which has a period of life above a minute , is identical chemically with one or other of the last 12 elements of the periodic table from uranium to thallium .
This is a very important point , because you have a new means here of determining a type of complexity of matter which a chemical analysis must necessarily overlook .
Suppose that you have a radioactive sequence such as , and F. If we take a common case , , the primary element , may be chemically identical with with , and with F , and by no chemical process would you be able to determine that six elements were present .
Chemical analysis will separate three pair of substances , namely , A and and and F. But if it happens that the periods of average of the various members of the series are not too long in comparison with the allotted span of three-score years and ten , , and in absence of their respective parents , , and , will disappear with lapse of lime .
But A will , in time , change into into , and so on .
Hence all six members can be erally distinguished .
provides , therefore , means of distinguishing a complexity among elements in the state of change which is not within the range of chemical analysis .
It was in this way that Sir William Ramsay and Hahn discovered radio-thorium .
Radio-thorium , as we now , is non-separable from thorium .
In fact , these investigators had separated out meso-thorium from the mineral ittingly .
As meso-thorium was not then known , they naturally assumed that they had separated the radio-thorium from the mineral .
We do not know any process at present capable of removing radiothorium from thorium .
They really had separated meso-thorium from the mineral , which , in course of time , changed into I would like to have my lantern slide .
* I showed these resnlts to the Royal Society over a year ago .
I need not spend time upon it .
It shows the radioelements arranged in the periodic table according to the chemical results of Fleck and myself , and a great number of other investigators preceding us .
Every vertical consists of elements occupying the same place in the table , which are not separable from one another by any known process .
Such elements I call isotopes .
Two years previously I had shown that the expulsion of an -particle shifts an element from ons place in the periodic table to the next place but one .
That the Radio-Elements , ' Part II , p. 3 .
was followed up by my old student , Mr. A. S. Russell , and at the same time by Herr Fajams in Germany , who supplemented that rule and showed that the expulsion of a -particle shifts the element one place in the opposite direction .
Hence the expulsion of one and two -particles must necessarily bring the element back again to where it started from , and give you an element completely identical with that which you began with .
Owing to the existence of intermediate members of entirely distinct chemical you can get the radiothorium and thorium separately , when by chemical analysis such a thin would be absolutely impossible .
The resuIt of the experiments of Messrs. Russell and Ross , and of Profs .
and Haschek , of Yienna , is to show that the spectra of these isotopes , as I call them , are very probably identical .
They showed that it was not possible to get any new spectra lines in a very strong ionium prepa .
The spectrum was purely that of thorium .
Although we do not know that the chemical elements are not homogeneous in other parts of the periodic table , the presumption is that they are probably not homogeneous .
In the last part of the periodic law one has a definite proof that there are 40 elements crowded into the 10 places which are occupied .
The atomic masses may vary over a considerable number of units from 206 , for instance , in the place occupied by the element lead , to 214 , 8 units , so there is a possibility that the same in other parts of the periodic table too .
Since the expulsion of an -particle with two positive oharges corresponds with a shift of two aces in ons direction , and the expulsion of a -particle carrying a single negative charge corresponds a shift of one place in the opposite direction , it follows without any doubt at all that the successive places in the periodic table correspond with unit differences in the net valus of the nuclsar charge , so far as the last 12 places at least are concerned .
That idea has been followed out further by Mr. Moseley , who , I understand , has new results to bring bffire us to-night .
There are a great many problems arising which have not yet been solved .
It is probable that the ordinary lead of the chemist is not homogeneous .
If it is derived from radioactive changes it is a mixture .
There has not yet been time for thal point to be decided , but we have been at work on it for some time .
I regard the discovery of meta-neon and neon in the atmosphere by Sir J. J. Thomson as a brilliant confirmation of this point of view .
These fwo elements , according to the resuIts of Mr. Ashton , appear to differ in atomic weight by 2 units , and yet appear to have the same boiling point and spectrum .
They are not capable of separation by fractional condensation in cold charcoal , but are separable by fractional diffusion methods only .
The model on the table of the periodic law I think sums up the knowledge we have derived from radioactive changes succinctly .
It is based on the figure-ofeight arrangement of Sir William Crookes , now over 25 years old , and on the fact that the rate of change of properties in passing from place to place attains a maximum at the zero and a minimum at the eighth group .
We cannot take the simple symmetrical idea that then sufficed .
It illustrates three points which , I think , have to be explained on any theory of the structure of the atom .
Firstly , we begin with two simple single of the spiral , or short periods .
Then at the element , titanium , the course of the evolution changes and ' Chemistry of the Radio .
Elements , ' Part II , p. 11 .
gives us the double spiral figure .
This .proceeds till complete double turns have been run through .
Then we have a totally different type of evolution coming in , with the commencement of the rare-earth group .
All the elements are identical in valency , though they differ , of course , from the isotopes which I spoke of ; in that between the successive elements there are distinct , though exceedingly slight , differences of chemical character , sufficient enable their separation by chemical methods to be effected .
The sequence then follows exactly as though the rare-earth elements had not been interpolated .
The final part between bismuth and uranium is almost all new , but it repr , uces in exact detail the earlier sequence of events .
From lead to thorium is the exact analogue of the early sequence om carbon to silicon .
Prof. J. W. NIclfoLsoN : I think that Prof. Rutherford has made it clear that the nuclear atom is , as a matter of fact , the only basis upon which profitable discussion of the constitution of the atom can really be carried on .
The main rival theory , as Prof. Hicks has just indicated , is the magneton theory .
It seems that just recently in the of a discussion it has been shown that the magneton theory and the nuclear theory do probably amount to exactly the same thing .
This has been indicated very clearly by Dr. Allen , who , I observe , .
is here to-day , and who , perhaps , may speak about it afterwards .
He has shown that the magneton can be represented as a difference effect which takes place with rotating electrons , if we suppose that the nucleus is rotating as well , with , however , specified angular momentum .
The principle of the constancy of angular momentum gives a possible explanation of Planck 's constant , that is to say , if this constant is an atomic constant at all , and not a constant of atomic aggregates .
It first came in in connection with the coronal spectrum , which can be represented mathematically by the free vibrations of a very simple model atom in its neutral and charged configurations .
( Illustrating .
) That is an atom which has a nucleus of charge 5 and five electrons .
This angular momentum principle was taken up by Dr. Bohr and is the real basis , I think , of the success of his theory so far as it has had success .
A hope has been expressed by Prof. Rutherford that I would make a few remarks about Dr. Bohr 's theory .
I have been examining this theory ' little while ; in fact practically ever since it first appeared .
There are several points in which it will work , and others apparently in which it will not work without very serious modification .
In the first place there is the question of the theory so far as it relates to the more chemical nature of the elements , that is to say , to the rangement of the electrons in the atom in a series of concentric rings of varying radii , the -ray spectra , for example , being supposed to come from an innermost ring .
On the older electrodynamics it is possible to show that we have , under any circumstances , a set of concentric rings in the same plane rotating round a single nucleus .
It is not possible to satisfy the conditions .
We can have , of course , electrons rotating in other ways than all in the same circular ring .
We can have them describing ellipses , for example , with the major axes of those ellipses at equal angles all the way round the nucleus .
But not possible to have any approximation to concentric circular orbits on the old odynamics ; nor is it possible , as can be proved rigorously\mdash ; I mean by strict mathematics\mdash ; to have them on Dr. Bohr 's theory , either , in its present form .
\mdash ; la this theory at present so-called steady configurations of the atom are to be determined by the dinary mechanics .
But it is only when we come to the question of the changes of the atom from one set of stationary states to another , or the vibration of the atom , that the ordinary dynamics must .
be given up .
In obtaining the formula of the hydrogen , Dr. Bohr is compelled to suppose that the attraction between an electron and the in the case of the simplo neutral hydrogen atom is according to the nary inverse square law which it would follow if the electrons were not actually bound in an atom .
If we examine what the spectrum of any other atom would be on these premises , that is to say , take any case which Dr. Bohr has not taken , we cannot obtain the experimental results .
But taking first the hydrogen atom in the ordinary neutral state , that particular atom also leads to another spectrum in the extreme ultra-violet , which has recently been found and which agrees very well indeed with the theory .
In other words , the hydrogen atom certainly does appear to give all the lines that we can ge .
from a certain double series .
This includes Balmer 's formula , Ritz 's formula , and a Schumann series .
The formula is , where is Rydberg 's constant , and and can take all integral values .
In the case of helium , when there is only one electron approaching the atom , we get the same series with half instead of whole numbers , and one immediate deduction , among others , is that the entire hydrogen spectrum is also given by the he , lium atom when it has a positive charge .
Actually there is a sligKt correction to be made in , because when you have only one electron , it drags the positive charge out of its ordinary position .
The two series for hydrogen and helium are not really quite the same , but they are very nearly .
ILwe take the same premises and try to get the rest of the helium spectrum\mdash ; that is to say , the ordinary helinm spectrum\mdash ; the attempt fails altogether .
We other series of this kind if we work out the arying stages according to the theor given by Dr. Bohr .
If we try to get the spectrum of a charged hydrogen atom or a hydrogen molecule , the same thing takes place .
We can get approaching the facts at all , and we must bear in mind that we have an entire secondary spectrum of hydrogen , or what is now generally believed to be due to hydrogen , with about 400 lines , which has yet to receive explanation by any of the structure of the hydrogen atom , in addition to those theories which have been mentioned .
I have examined in what direction we can modify this theory in order to get such spectra .
I find that there are two ways .
We can either make a different ecification of the momentum\mdash ; but that is not sufficient in itself\mdash ; or we must suppose that , although the electron and the nucleus exert the usual force on each other , electrons bound in an atom must not exert the same force on each other as they normally do .
I think that , in dealing with a subject like this , we are , perhaps , entitled to make any tentative assumption we like , which leads to an experimental formula , in order to endeavour to throw some light on the subject .
I find , however , that no inverse law of any kind will lead to anything approximating to the ordinary spectrum of helium at all .
The only way in which any progress seems likely in connection with ordinary spectra is to suppose either that there is no force whatever between electrons bound in an atom , or that it is according to some power which is not an inverse power .
When we come to the -ray spectra some very interesting results appear .
The first point that I wish to emphasize is in relation to the ordinary deduction first given by Mr. Moseley , that Bohr 's is in agreement with his results on the -ray pectra .
When we examine Bohr 's spectral formula , we get : .
is a constant depending on the number of electrons , that is to say , in addition to that factor in , the factor comes in .
This has been overlooked in the treatment of the question so far .
There is only one way of removing , and that is to give up one of Dr. Bohr 's fundamental postulates , which is to the effect that when radiation is given from an atom only one quantum must go at a time .
If there are electrons , we must suppose that every one of those electrons sends out a quantum .
If we do this , we can get the on the other side of the equation , and it may be cancelled .
That is the first proviso we must make if we want the .
X-ray spectra to fit in with the theory .
If Mr. Moseley 's are impossible , then his supposed ring of four electrons round the nucleUs will have to go too , except in one circumstance , namely , that is no force between the bound electrons in the atom .
If there is no force in the bound electrons in the atom , then we can proceed a little farther .
constant disappears .
We get the frequencies of the -ray proportional to the square of N. ( Illustrahng .
) Mr. Moseley 's results do indicate so closely this propor- tionality to a square that I think it would , perhaps , be better to accept it as a fact rather than sul , pose that there is a constant concerned there which happens to be equal to 1 in the cass of calcium and some of the other elements .
Here , however , we have the difficulty that if represents the atomic numbsr the for calcium comes down to 19 ; that is to say that if the theory of the atomic number being equal to the place of the elements in the table is correct the chemists have not found exactly the right number of elements between hydrogen and calcium , but have found one too many .
However , I do not want to dwell on that If this absenc-e of forcs between bound electrons is a fact , isotopes will have the same spectrum .
There is one other point on which I would like to make one or two remarks .
I referred to the question of the coronal spectrum , which can be explained by the vibrations of an atom consisting of a nucleus of 5 , and 5 electrons .
This atom I do not take to be an ordinary terrestrial atom of similar constitution .
I take it to be an atom with a simple nucleus .
I think that the nature of the binding of the electrons to the nucleus must indicate some change in it from the form of a terrestrial atom .
If we examine the spectra of nebulae in the same way , we get the same result with respect to a system of four electrons outside a nucleus of four .
We can explain a large part of the nebular spectrum in way .
Recently I think I have managed to show that we can explain practically all the radiations of nebulae by the other systems of this simple kind ; that is to say , we have the very beginnings of matter there ; and the subsequent development of terrestrial matter will have to take place by some modification of the interior of the atoms .
The evidence for this modification is , that when we come to the stars which astronomers regard .
usually as the earliest type of stars , namely , the stars close to the nebulae in stellar classifications , we find that they contain no lines which can be certainly identified except hydrogen and helium lives .
They contain , however , about forty lines which can all be grouped together under one omprehensive formula which is exactly like Balmer 's formula , except that the constant 4 is replaced by something else , and there is a series of limits with a constant frequency difference outside .
The constants in these formulae are aertain constants we can calculate for the original system in the nebulae with the electrons and the hucleus of four which seems to be the recognised system there .
There is evidently some relation between the origin of those lines and the oligin of the lines in the nebulae .
eover , if we trace through exactly the same relation for the subsequent products of itnother atom\mdash ; that is to say , the atom with a simple nucleus ( whatever that may be ) and one electron\mdash ; we get exactly Balmer 's formula .
We get the limit right .
We get it right to five figures on the supposition that this of the nebular spectrum is correct .
Apparently hydrogen does contain only one electron .
Moreover , if we make the same calculation for an atom with two electrons we get this as the chief line .
( Illnstrating .
) I do not deny that there are probably other series .
We get the wave-length 10832 as the principal line , and the strongest.line in the helium spectrum is 10830 .
I think that from this empirical method of ooeeding there is very strong evidence that the supposition that hydrogen has a nucleus of 1 and helium of 2 is correct .
If we go any farther the same thing does not happen .
We cannot show in the same way that the nucleus of lithium has a charge of 3 .
There is one little difficulty which I.may , perhaps , refer to as regards the spectra .
Prof. Strutt recently has indicated some experiments which seem to supporb a vie expressed by Lenard some little while ago that the systems whose give the principal series and the subordinate series are different .
's view was that the principal series came from neutral atoms and that the subordinate series came from the various positively charged atoms .
If helium has only two electrons we cannot expect a spectrum when no electrons are left at all .
In that cass the subordinate series of helium must be the spectrum of the atom which , according to Dr. Bohr 's theory , gives us what are called by astronomers the Pickering lines .
The 10830 , of the principal series , by our method appears to be in agreement with Lenard 's view , for it comes from a neutral atom .
There will be these points uItimately to be reconciled between Dr. Bohr 's vielv and this more empirical view which I have ventured to bring before you .
Prof. W. M. HICKS : As there is not time to say very much , I will go at once to the one or two points that I wish specially to draw attention to .
The first is in reference to Mr. Soddy 's theory of the existence of elements having different atomic weights , and yet having the same chemical properties .
I think that we shall all agree that the evidence in favour of that is so strong that we may take it as practically , or at any rate provisionally , settled ; but a difficulty ises in connection with the spectra .
He assumes that the spectra of these different substances with different atomic weights , but belonging to the same place , will be identical .
Certainly in favour of that view the result of the attempt to determine the spectrum of ionium seems to lend some weight , but there is a lifficulty which it seems to me we cannot get over , namely , that the spectra of the elements depend very definitely on the atomic weight and not on the number .
It is not simply a rough connection .
It is a connection so close that if you take the atomic weight to be 1 or 2 in 3000 dffierent from the weight as determined by chemists , then the relation falls out altogether .
Here we have cases where the atomic weight differs by 3 or 4 units .
It is difficult to see you can , expect to get the same spectra .
An explanation may lie in the posSibility that we never have the single element in these cases , so that , for instance , in the spectrum of we do not get the spectrum of pure thorium , but that of a mixture of thorium and ionium and all their isotopes together .
All thes6 elements have an enormous number of lines , and their spectra have none of them been properly investigated , so we do not know whether we have a mixture of the spectra of several isotopes when we take , say , the spectrum of thorium , or not .
Of course there is another supposition that we might take , namely , that the isotope with the largest number of electrons is the one which gives the ordinary spectrum , and that these other elements which are brought back by the emission of have no spectra at all .
But it seems to me that the most hkely thing and the thing that we have to look for is that the observed really composite .
The other point which I wanted to raise was one of a different kind .
If we approach the constitution of the atom from the spectral side we are led to think more of the magnetic qualities of the atom than of the electrical .
You must have magnetic fields , in anything which produces ordinary spectra , at least those which show spectral series .
This has been pointed out by Lord Rayleigh and has been apphed with great success by Ritz .
Not only , but we know from Weiss 's experimental work that these little atomic magnets do really exist .
Whether they are something different from electrons , or are produced by rotating electrons , is a matter for consideration ; but the fields are so strong that they must be taken into account .
measured amount of their magnetic moments is of the order .
Although the mathematical difficulties may be great , I think that if the theory of the deflection of an -particle by one of these magnetons were worked out it would be found that deflections quite comparable to those observed would be found , and that too by particles which do not require to go so close to the central nucleus as in Prof. Rutherford 's theory ; but of course whether the law of scattering is the same as what he has observed or not , we do not know .
That is a matter in which the mathsmatical theory would have to come first .
Some rough calculations I have made show that or -particles passing in the equatorial plane of a Weiss atomic magnet do , as a fact , get in all directions by such an amount as to lead to an expectation that the would be similar to that which Prof. Rutherford has observed .
Prof. SILVANUS P. THOMPSON : May I be allowed to put a point Prof. Hicks has referred to a feature which apparently has escaped the attention of almost all the older workers on this subject , namely , that there must be magnetic force these hypothetical atoms , if they consist of electrons in .
He has referred .also to the brilliant work done by Prof. Weiss in his 1s lnvestigation of the possible atomic magnet or .
It is worth while to put that from another point of view , or rather to show one of the additional complications that this consideration introduces .
What Prof. Weiss has done is this :Taking various magnetic substances , and magnetising them in the strongest possible field , so as to produce as near an approach as possible to magnetic saturation , he has found that there is apparently a definite magnetic moment for the atom of each of these .
Putting it into the usual quantity of grammemolecules , 56 .
of iron appear to have , in the limit when they are magnetised completely , a magnetic momsnt of 12360 ( C.G.S. units ) ; 59 .
of nickel , the corresponding quantity , appear to have 3370 units of magnetic moment .
Those two numbers have , as Weiss points out , exactly the relation numerically to one another of 11 to 3 .
If you take 59 .
of cobalt in the same way and express its magnetic moment in the same terms , the unitary number that corresponds to it is 9 .
If you take 16 .
of oxygen , the corresponding number is 7 .
That is to say , the atoms respectively of iron , nickel , cobaIt , and oxygen contain these numbers of magnetons : , 11 ( or , in other circumstances , -iron apparently will contain 12 ) , nicke13 , cobalt 9 , and oxygen 7 .
Now , what I waIlt to point out is this : we accept the argument of Weiss on this point , we must consider the atom not only as a nucleus with a certain electric positive charge in it , and electrons , negative units , grouped around in rings or some other configuration , but its configuration must be such as to have these elementary quantities 11 , 3 , 9 , 7 for the four elements in question .
Arrangements have been proposed of models of atoms having so many units of positive electricity grouped with so many electrons of negative electricity .
Have we any basis whatever for supposing that these unitary magnetic numbers can be accommodated therein 1 Our model atom of oxygen , however many positive and negative aggregate units it is supposed to have , must possess a configuration such that it shall have seven magnetic units in it .
This is a somewhat novel point of view , but apparently it is a necessity from the facts .
It ad\amp ; , no doubt , to the difflculties of imagining a model that will work , but a model that will not work magnetically , but only mechanically , is only half a model .
Dr. H. S. ALLEN : Like Prof. Hicks I have been trying recently to work out the question of the scattering of the -particles by a magnetic atom .
I find , wever , that there is one )oint of difference between the electric and the magnetic problem , which I think is crucial .
In the case of the nucleus Sir Ernest Rutherford has shown that the scattering varies inversely as the fourth power of the velocity .
laking the magnetic atom and dealing with the case in the equatorial plane , I think that the scattering varies inversely as the square of the velocity .
So there is this important point by which we may distinguish between the two views .
I anot sure whether the experimental evidence obtained so far is really decisive .
I think that if we were to take a magnetic atom which also possesses electrical operties we might find a relation somewhere between the square and the fourth power which possibly might fit the experimental facts more closely .
With regard to magnetons , I want to mention one point very briefly .
We may express the angular momentum of an electron as , supposing that we have an electron travelling in a cular orbit of radius , with angular velocity According to Bohr 's theory the angular momentum is equal to .
The magnetic moment of an elementary magnet , which would be equivalent to the revolving ( 8001 ) electron , is equal to .
Comparing these two , we see that it is possible to express the magnetic moment in terms of Planck 's constant .
If we out the result , ning the latest value for the constants , we find for the magnetic moment the value .
Now , taking the latest value for the magnetic moment of the magneton we get the number .
The former mber , then , is exactly five times the latter , that is to say , the single electron revolving in a c.ircular orbit is equivalent to five magnetons .
That was pointed first by Mr. Chalmers at the recent meeting of the British Association .
In order to arrive at the magneton itself , I suggested in a letter to 'Nature , ' a few weeks ago , that we might take the case of a revolving sphere of positive electricity .
It is easy to show that , if we have a sphere carrying a charge times , the magnetic moment of the revolving sphere is , where A is the radius of the sphere and its angular velocity .
If we assume that is equal to , the magnetic moment is equivalent to magnetons ; so that , by taking magnetons for the ring of electrons and magnetons for the revolving sphere , we have a way of building up various numbers of magnetons according to the direction of revolution of the sphere and the ring .
Prof. Rntherford , I suppose , would prefer to make the sphere of negative eleutricity and put a positive nucleus in the centre .
In that way we might be able to reconcile the two points of view .
Reply of SIR ERNEST RUTHERFORD.\mdash ; As the hour is so late I will only delay you for a few minutes .
I must first of all thank the speakers for the kind way in which they have treated me in this discussion , and I think there are not .
many points which call for a special reply .
I quite recognise , with Prof. Hicks , that there must be an atomic weight term connected with the frequencies of vibration of the atom .
On the theory I have outlined , it is to be anticipated that this term should be very small , and it is difficult to account for the magnitude of the effect observed experimentally by him .
In making the statement that elements of the same nucleus charge should have the same spectra , I am quite aware that this can be only approximately the case .
There should always be a small difference in the frequency of vibration due to the mass of the nucleus , and no doubt the magnitude of this term will depend upon the relative masses of the two atoms , which have the same nucleu4 charge .
According to our present views , however , this effect should be very small , and for a heavy atom should not amount to more than 1/ 100 of an unit .
In my remarks I did not discuss at all the very thorny question of the outer distribution of electrons .
There is no doubt that in a heavy atom this distribution is very complex and will be difficult to calculate with certainty .
I am very glad that Prof. Nicholson has given us his views on the origin of the spectra , and was very interested in his discussion of how far the theories of Bohr are applicable , and how the results given by Mr. Moseley can be interpreted .
Even supposing that our fundamental assumptions are right about the nucleus and the importance of the nucleus charge , I think it will be some time before we shall be able to enter with any detail into the complicated question of the electronic distribution of a heavy atom .
There are so many possible modes of arrangement of the electrons , and there is always the uncertainty that we do not know completely the laws which govern the influence of one electron on another .
Obviously very many possibilities will have to be considered before we can hope to obtain a satisfactory explanation .
Any structure which is assumed must explain not only the general chemical and physical properties and the spectra of the elements , but also the magnetic properties of the atom , which I am glad attention has been directed by Prof. Silvanus Thompson and Dr. Allen .
I am afraid that I have already taken up too much of your time in this discussion .
I personally take a very great interest in this subject , and to-day I have tried to give you iefly my general views and the theories on which many of us are working to-day .
I am glad that we have had such an interchange of views on some of the main problems of atomic structure , and that there is com- atively so much agreement in regard to the central point of the atom .
E. R. [ Added June 19 , 1914.\mdash ; It must be borne in mind that the magnetism of iron and nickel are affected by their physical and chemical state and their combination with other subs(nnces .
lt thus appears probable that the intense magnetic effects of iron and nickel are in some way connected with arrangement and motion of the eleotrons near the the atom , and are indirectly oonnected with the interior structure of the .
\mdash ; E. R. ]

