322 Dr. S. J. Hickson .
On certain [ Apr. 15 , April15 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " PreliminaryNotes on certain Zoological Observations made at Talisse Island , North Celebes .
" By Sydney J. Hickson , D.Sc .
, B.A. Communicated by Professor H. N. Moseley , F.R.S.* Received March 25 , 1886 .
Notes upon an Alcyonarian ( Clavularia viridis ) .
In one of my earliest walks upon the coral reefs of Talisse , I came across a spot where Tubipores and Cornularias were more abundant than elsewhere .
Quantities of the little crowds of brownish-green or pure brown polypes of these Alcyonarians , with occasionally a crowd of the emerald-green polypes of a small species of Tubipora , were to be seen on every side .
As I was wading along through the water on this spot , my stick accidentally struck against a mass of what I thought was Tubipora ; but when the polypes had retracted I saw to my surprise that , instead of the usual bright red skeleton , there was a skeleton of a dirty green colour , the tubes of which were joined , not by platforms , but by tubes .
Taking with me a large speci* [ Note by Professor II .
N. Moseley.\#151 ; The Alcyonarian described here by Mr. Hickson is apparently identical with a specimen in the British Museum , collected by Mr. A. R. Wallace in the Aru Islands , and labelled Clavularia viridis .
The existence of transverse communicating canals in Clavularia , extending between the vertical tubes at successive heights above the stolon tubes , as in Syringopora , is apparently a pew fact , and one of great interest .
The genus Clavularia has received considerable attention from modern naturalists .
Gt .
v. Koch has described the anatomy of Clavularia prolifera , and A. Kowalevsky and A. F. Marion the larval phases of Clavularia petricola ; but these forms , together with most others included in the genus , appear to have the vertical tubes united only at the level of the stolon , as is the case , according to Mr. Hickson , in the young state of the form he describes .
Possibly his form will require to be placed in a separate genus .
The existence of rudimentary ampullae in the coenosteum of Millepora has been described by Mr. Quelch , of the British Museum , but the actual gonads of the Milleporidae have hitherto remained undiscovered .
The notes have been written by Mr. Hickson where he is of course unable to refer to scientific literature .
] 1886 .
] Zoological Observations made in North Celebes .
323 men of it in sea-water , I examined it carefully at my house , and the next morning I procured some more , and treated it in various ways for microscopic examination .
There are one or two features in the anatomy of this Alcyonarian which throw a good deal of light not only upon the zoological position of Tubipora hut also that of the extinct Syringopora .
At present I have only found this form on the inside of the reef growing upon old and dead coral masses ; in its neighbourhood are numerous specimens of Tubipora , some of them with unusually large tubes , two or three species of Cornularia , a few Madreporas , and one or two Astraeids .
It clings to the rocks by a stolon of tubes , which run in various directions and follow all the unevennesses of the supporting rock .
It is very easy , however , to pull it away bodily , without injuring the stolon .
The polype tubes spring perpendicularly from the stolon , and rise to a height of 2 or 3 inches .
I have not found any tubes longer than that at present , in fact the average is rather below that .
It may be , however , as is the case with Tubipora , that the masses grow much larger and the tubes much longer in more favourable localities .
The tubes are united together , not by platforms , as in Tubipora , but by simple tubes , as in Syringopora ( fig. 1 ) , and from these connecting tubes new polype tubes spring .
Each polype tube is marked by eight grooves , corresponding with the eight mesenteries , and these grooves , instead of running straight from the stolon to the mouth , turn to the left , and run up the tubes spirally , plainly showing that in the course of the growth of the polype from the stolon or connecting tube it is twisted from left to right .
Examining a portion of the dried skeleton , I found that it is not purely calcareous , as is the skeleton of Tubipora , but consists of a few long spicules imbedded in a coriaceous substance , which is unaffected by strong hydrochloric acid .
I should not like to say for certain of what chemical nature this substance is , but from its microscopic appearance I should expect elastin .
The tubes are not perforated as in Tubipora , and I cannot at present discover any organic connexion between the mesoderm outside the tube and the mesoderm inside the tube .
The polypes very closely resemble the polypes of Tubipora .
They are of a rich brown colour , and contract but slowly when irritated .
The tentacles have the usual Alcyonarian character , and are richly armed with nematocysts .
At this season of the year this Alcyonarian does not seem to breed at all , as after examining a great many polypes I have found none sexually mature .
The young colonies , which are to be found in abundance on the reefs , closely resemble a species of Cornularia , which is found here in abundance , consisting simply of branched stolons , from which the young polypes spring .
Dr. S. J. Hickson .
On certain [ Apr. 15 , Fio .
l. Small portion of the skeleton ( x 2 ) as it appears when dry , showing the longitudinal grooves which correspond with the mesenteries ( gg ) , the connecting tubes ( tt ) , and a young polype springing from a connecting tube Histologically it does not seem to differ in any important particular from Tubipora , but I hope in a later and fuller paper to be able to give the results of a further and better investigation .
The importance and interest of this genus is two-fold .
In the first place the structure of the stolon , the mode of connexion of the polype tubes , and the fact that its skeleton is imperforate , show that it is closely allied to the extinct genus Syringopora , which it resembles in all these particulars .
Notwithstanding the mass of evidence which 1886 .
] Zoological Observations made in North Celebes .
325 has been brought by Moseley , Zittel , and others , to prove that this latter genus is Alcyonarian , there are still some authors who maintain that it is Zoantharian .
The peculiar structure of the present form goes far to prove that the former opinion is right , and the latter wrong .
In the second place the resemblance of the young colonies of this form to the genus Cornularia , and the resemblance of the adult colonies and polypes to those of Tubipora , justify the conclusion I arrived at in a former paper , that Tubipora should be united with the Cornularidae into a group , the Stolonifera ; this genus is , in fact , the connecting link between these genera which was formerly missing , unless we assumed that Syringopora was undoubtedly Alcyonarian .
I hope in a future paper to be able to give some further particulars of the anatomy of this form , perhaps also some account of the early stages of its development , and some account of my researches upon the other Stoloniferous Alcyonaria , which are present here in abundance .
Note on Tubipora and on Millepora .
I have got the early stages of the development of Tubipora .
It is regularly holoblastic , and I think the gastrula is formed by invagination .
Finding , however , that it is very difficult to keep the embryos alive in this hot and dusty weather , I must wait until it becomes a little cooler in December before I can get any very satisfactory results on this latter point .
The generative products of Millepora are formed in little capsules in the walls of the canals , and I have found both male and female capsules in the same canals .
The embryos , I believe from the evidence of one preparation only , reach a certain stage of development in chitinous capsules in the canals , and they are then discharged into the water by the mouths of the gastrozooids .
^.Fc/ jia/ c cajJsuCe Generative capsules of Millepora .

