546 Prof. G. G. Stokes on certain [ Dec. 20 , Let o\gt ; 0 and r0 be the original and present angular velocity , and p0 the equatorial component which is destroyed by friction .
Then ?
r\/ rW=1+i(0- \#166 ; ... ... ... ... ... .(18\gt ; But d'= tan 1 ' ; r therefore ?
k=1-00015234 .
ro Hence the original length of the day was ^^9\#151 ; =86386-8 seconds .
1-00015234 Hence the formation of Asia and Europe had the effect of lengthening the day by 13*2 seconds , no matter at what rate the formation took place .
III .
" On certain Movements of Radiometers .
" By G. G. Stokes , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received November 1 , 1877 .
Nearly two years ago Mr. Crookes was so good as to present me with two of his beautiful radiometers of different constructions , the disks of one being made of pith , and those of the other of roasted mica , in each case blackened with lampblack on one face .
With these I was enabled to make some experiments , having relation to their apparently anomalous movements under certain circumstances , which were very interesting to myself , although the facts are only such as have already presented themselves to Mr. Crookes , either in the actual form in which I witnessed them , or in one closely analogous , and have mostly been described by him .
Although it will be necessary for me to describe the actual experiments , which have all been repeated over and over again so as to make sure of the results , I do not bring forward the facts as new .
My object is rather to endeavour to coordinate them , and point to the conclusions to which they appear to lead .
I do not pretend that these conclusions are established ; I am well aware that they need to be further confronted with observation ; but as I have not leisure to engage in a series of experiments which would demand the expenditure of a good deal of time , and have lately been urged by a friend to publish my views , I venture to lay them before the Royal Society , in hopes that they may be of some use , even if only in the way of stimulating inquiry .
In describing my experiments I will designate that direction of rotation in which the white face precedes as positive , and the reverse as negative .
1877 .
] Movements of Radiometers .
547 It will be remembered that , under ordinary circumstances , radiation towards either radiometer produces positive rotation .
1 .
If a glass tumbler be heated to the temperature of boiling water , and inverted over the mica radiometer , there is little or no immediate motion of the fly ; but quickly a negative rotation sets in , feeble at first , bujji rapidly becoming lively , and presently dying away .
2 .
If after the fly has come to rest the hot tumbler be removed , a positive rotation soon sets in , which becomes pretty lively , and then gradually dies away as the apparatus cools .
3 .
If the tumbler be heated to a somewhat higher temperature , on first inverting it over the radiometer there is a positive rotation , commencing with the promptitude usual in the case of a feeble luminous radiation , but quickly succeeded by the negative rotation already described .
If the tumbler be heated still more highly , the initial positive rotation is stronger and lasts longer , and the subsequent negative rotation is tardy and feeble .
4 .
If the pith radiometer be treated as in S 1 , the result is the same , with the remarkable difference that the rotation is positive instead of negative ; it is also less lively .
5 .
But if the tumbler be removed when the fly has come to rest , it remains at rest , or nearly so .
6 .
If the tumbler be more strongly heated , positive rotation begins as promptly as with light .
In this case the tumbler must not be left long over the radiometer , for fear the vacuum should be spoiled by the evolution of gas from the pith .
7 .
If the tumbler be heated by holding it over the spout of a kettle from which steam is issuing , and held there till the condensation of water has approximately ceased , and be then inverted over the pith radiometer , the bulb is immediately bedewed , and a negative rotation is almost immediately set up , though sometimes , just at the very first moment , there is a trace of positive rotation .
The negative rotation is lively , but not lasting ; and , after 15 seconds or so , is exchanged for a positive rotation , which is not lively , but lasts longer .
8 .
If the tumbler be lifted when the negative rotation has ceased , and the dewed surface be strongly blown upon , a lively , but brief , positive rotation is set up .
9 .
To produce positive rotation by blowing , it is not essential that the bulb be wet .
If it be merely warm , and the circumstances are such that the fly is at rest for the moment , or nearly so , blowing produces positive rotation , though much less strongly than when the bulb is wet .
10 .
If the tumbler be heated as in S7 , and inverted over the mica radiometer , the rotation is positive , as when the tumbler is dry .
11 .
If the tumbler or a cup be smoked inside ( to facilitate radiation ) , heated to a little beyond the temperature of boiling water , and inverted over the pith radiometer , a positive rotation is produced ; and if , when Prof. G. G. Stokes certain [ Dec. 20 , this has ceased , which takes place in a couple of minutes or so , the heated vessel be removed , a negative , though not lively , rotation is produced as the apparatus cools .
12 .
These results do not seem difficult to coordinate so far as to reduce them to their proximate cause .
As regards the small quantity , if any , of heat radiated directly across the glass of the bulb , the action of .
which was experimentally distinguishable by its promptitude , both radiometers behaved in the ordinary way .
13 .
As regards the mica radiometer , when the bulb gets heated , and radiates towards the fly , the fly is impelled in the negative direction , as if the white , pearly mica were black and the lampblack were white .
And there is nothing opposed to what we know in supposing that such is really their relative order of darkness as regards the heat of low refrangibility absorbed and radiated by the glass ; for the researches of Melloni and others have shown that lampblack is , if not absolutely white , at any rate very far from black as regards heat of low refrangibility .
On the other hand , glass and mica are both silicates , not so very dissimilar in chemical composition ; and it would not therefore be very wonderful , but rather the reverse , if there were a general similarity in their mode of absorption of radiant heat , so that the heat most freely radiated by glass , and accordingly abounding in the radiation from thin glass such as that of the bulb , were greedily absorbed by mica .
The explanation of the reversal of the action when heat and cold were interchanged is too well known to require mention .
14 .
With the pith radiometer , when the bulb as a whole is heated , and radiates towards the fly , the impulse is positive , though less strong than in the case of the mica ( S 4 ) ; and when the bulb as a whole is cooler than the fly the impulse is negative ( S 11 ) .
But to explain all the phenomena we must dissect the total radiation from or towards the bulb .
When I first noticed the negative rotation produced by a heated wet tumbler , I was disposed to attribute it to radiation from the water , which possibly the glass of the bulb might be thin enough to let pass ; but when I found that hot water in a glass vessel outside , even though the glass of it were thin , produced no sensible effect , and that blowing on the heated bulb when it was dry produced a similar effect to blowing on it when dewed , though of much less amount , I perceived that the moisture acted , not by direct radiation from it , and in consequence of a difference of quality between the radiations from glass and water , but by causing a rapid superficial heating of the bulb ; and , similarly , the blowing on the dewed surface acted by causing a rapid superficial cooling .
When the dry tumbler radiates to the bulb , the radiation is absorbed at various depths ; the absorption is most copious , it is true , at the outer strata ; but still the change of temperature is not by any means so much confined to the immediate surface as when we 1877 .
] Movements of Radiometers .
549 have to deal with the latent heat of vapour condensed on it , or obtained from it by rapid evaporation .
Hence , thin as is the glass of the bulb ( about 0*02 in .
thick ) , we must still , in imagination , divide it into an outer and inner stratum , and examine the effects of these separately .
The heat radiated by either stratum depends only on its temperature ; but the radiation from the outer , on its way to the fly , is sifted by passing through the inner , and the portion for which glass is most excessively opaque is in great part stopped .
It appears from the observed results that the residue acts decidedly negatively , while when the bulb is pretty uniformly heated there is positive action .
We may infer that if it were possible to heat the inner stratum alone it would manifest a very decided positive action .
15 .
In the struggle between the opposing actions of the outer and inner strata we see the explanation of the strange behaviour of the pith radiometer .
In the experiment of S 7 the outer stratum at first shows its negative action ; but quickly the inner also gets heated , partly by conduction from the outer , partly by direct radiation from the tumbler , and then the inner prevails .
In the experiment of S 5 the whole bulb cools , partly by radiation , partly by convection , while the fly remains warmer ; and the slightly greater coolness of the outer than of the inner stratum makes up for the superiority of the inner when the two are equally cool , so that the antagonistic actions nearly balance , and slight causes , such as greater or less agitation of the air , suffice to make the balance incline one way or other .
That the inner stratum would prevail if the two were about equally cooled may be inferred from the behaviour of the radiometer when the bulb is pretty uniformly heated ( SS 4 , 11 ) , or shown more directly by cooling the bulb with snow , when a negative rotation may be obtained .
16 .
The complete definition of a radiation would involve the expression of the intensity of each component of it as a function of some quantity serving to define the quality of the component , such as its refractive index in a standard medium , or its wave-length , or the squared reciprocal of the wave-length* .
The experimental determination of the character , as thus defined , of a radiation consisting of invisible heat-rays is beset with difficulties , at least in the case of heat of extremely ow refrangibility ; and in general we can do little more than speak in a roug way of the radiation as being of such or such a kind .
It is obvious that the behaviour of radiometers by itself alone affords no indication o t e refrangibilities of the kinds of heat with which we have to deal , never theless , by combining what we know of the behaviour of bodies in respect * A map of the spectrum , constructed with the squared reciprocals of the wave- g for abscissae , would be referred to a natural standard , no less than that of Ang " , which is constructed according to wave-lengths ; while it wou aTe 6 \#174 ; 1.ea .
tage of admitting of ready comparison with refraction spec ra , 0 m always used .
" VOL. XXVI .
550 Prof. G. G. Stokes on certain [ Dec. 20 , to radiations in general ( especially luminous radiations , which are the most easily studied ) with what we observe as to the motions of radiometers , we may arrive at some probable conclusions .
17 .
We may evidently conceive a series of ethereal vibrations of any periodic time , however great , to be incident on a homogeneous medium such as glass , and inquire in what manner the rate of absorption would change with the period ; though whether we can actually produce ethereal vibrations of a very long period is another question , seeing that we can only act on the ether by the intervention of matter , and are limited to such periods of vibration as matter can assume when vibrating molecu-larly , in a manner communicable to the ether , and not as a continuous mass , in the manner of the vibrations which produce sound .
We may inquire whether , on continually increasing the period of vibration , the glass ( or other medium ) would ultimately become and remain very opaque , or whether , after passing through a range of opacity , it would become transparent again , on still further increasing the period of the incident vibrations .
18 .
This is a question the experimental answer to which , as it seems to me , could only be given , in so far as it could be given at all , as a result of a long series of experiments , of a kind that Melloni has barely touched on .
A variety of considerations , which I could not explain in short compass , lead me to regard the second alternative as the more probable , namely , that , on increasing the periodic time , homogeneous substances in general ( perhaps even metals , though this is doubtful ) become at last transparent , or at least comparatively so .
The limit of opacity , in all probability , varies from one substance to another ; and the lower it is , the lower would be the lowest refrangibility of the radiation which the same substance is capable of emitting .
19 .
In what immediately follows I shall suppose accordingly that glass is strongly absorbing through a certain range of low refrangibility , on both sides of which it gradually becomes transparent again* .
Imagine a spectrum containing radiations of all refrangibilities with which we have to deal ; let portions of this spectrum on the two sides of the region of powerful absorption for glass be called wings of that region , and let left to right be the order of increasing refrangibility .
Then the spectrum of the radiation from a thin plate of glass , if it could be observed , would be seen to occupy the region of chief absorbing ( and therefore emitting ) power and its wings .
The spectrum of the radiation from the outer stratum of the bulb of the pith radiometer , after transmission through the inner , would consist of two wings , with a blank , or nearly blank , space between ; it would resemble , in fact , a widened bright spectral line , with * It may be noticed that this supposition , which , as appearing the more probable , is adopted for clearness of conception , is not essentially involved in the explanation that follows , which would hardly be changed if the " left wing " were not terminated on the left .
1877.1 Movements of Radiometers .
a dark band of reversal in its middle , save that , instead of being confined to extremely narrow limits of refrangibility , the central space and its wings would be of wide extent .
It follows from the experiments that , in the complete radiation from glass , the portions of the spectrum called the wings together act negatively , the portion between positively .
It does not , of course , follow that each wing acts negatively , but only that the balance of the two is negative .
When the tumbler is heated a little over 212 ' there is a slight positive action from radiation which passes directly through the bulb .
The circumstances lead us to regard this as an extension of the right wing ; for it comes from a depth , measured from the inner surface of the bulb in glass , i. e. not counting the intervening air , somewhat greater than the thickness of the wall of the bulb ; and we know that the more a solid body is heated , the higher , as a rule , does the refrangibility of the radiation which it emits extend , and the greater the proportion of rays of high to those of low refrangibility .
It is simplest , therefore , to suppose that the action of the right wing , like that of the space between the wings , is positive , and that the observed negative action in the experiment of S 7 is due to the excess of negative action of the left wing over positive action of the right .
In the mica radiometer the experiments indicate no such difference of action in the different layers of the bulb as in the case of the pith radiometer .
Hence taking , in accordance with what now appears to be made out to be the theory of the motion of the radiometer , the direction in which the fly is impelled as an indication which is the warmer of the two faces of the disks , and that again as an indication which is the darker with respect to the radiation to which it is exposed , we arrive at the following results as regards the order of darkness of the substances for the three regions into which the spectrum of the incident radiation has been supposed to be divided , the name of the lighter substance being in each case placed above that of the darker:\#151 ; From pith radiometer From mica radiometer Left wing .
Bight \#187 ; ing .
f Lampblack .
Pith .
Pith .
\ Pith .
Lampblack .
Lampblack .
f Lampblack .
Lampblack .
Mica .
\ Mica .
Mica .
Lampblack .
Hence , on descending in refrangibility , the order of darkness of the two substances of either pair is at first the same as for the visible spectrum , and at last the opposite ; and the reversal of the order takes place sooner with mica and lampblack than with pith and lampblack .
The or er falls in very well with that of the chemical complexity of the three substances . .
20 .
The whole subject of the behaviour of bodies with respect to radiant heat of the lowest degrees of refrangibility seems to me to need a thorough experimental investigation .
The investigation , however , is one 552 Prof. G. G. Stokes on certain [ Dec. 20 , involving considerable difficulty .
We can do little towards classifying the rays with which we are working unless we can form a pure spectrum .
A. refraction-spectrum is the most convenient ; but the only substance known which would be approximately suitable for forming the prism , lens , \amp ; c. required for such a spectrum , and for confining liquids , is rock-salt , of which it is extremely difficult to procure perfectly limpid specimens of any size ; and even rock-salt itself , as Professor Balfour Stewart has shown , is defective in transparency for certain kinds of radiant heat .
Then , again , the only suitable measuring-instrument for such researches , the thermopile , demands a thorough examination with reference to the coating to be employed for absorbing the incident radiation .
Hitherto lampblack has been used almost exclusively for the purpose ; and it is commonly assumed , in accordance with certain of Melloni 's results , that lampblack absorbs equally heat-rays of all kinds .
But the experiments by which Melloni established the partial diathermancy of lampblack prove that rays exist for the absorption of which that substance is unsuitable .
On calling on Mr. Crookes after the above was written , I was surprised to find that all his mica radiometers behaved towards a heated glass shade in the opposite way to that he had given me , going round positively instead of negatively .
Mr. Crookes showed me and gave me a specimen of the kind of mica he employs , as eminently convenient for manipulation .
It is found naturally in a condition resembling artificially roasted mica .
It is not , however , quite so opaque for transmitted light , nor of quite such a pearly whiteness for reflected light as that which has been artificially roasted at a high temperature .
The mica radiometer that Mr. Crookes first gave me , which I will call M1 ?
was , Mr. Gimingham told me , the only one they had made with roasted mica .
Mr. Crookes was so kind as to give me , for comparative experiment , a mica radiometer , which I will call M " , made from the natural foliated mica .
It revolves a good deal more quickly than M , under the influence of light ; it also gets more quickly under way , indicating that the mica is thinner .
When covered with a hot glass it revolves positively , as already remarked ; there is , however , but little negative rotation when the glass is removed .
The difference in the thickness and condition of the mica sufficiently explains the difference of behaviour of M , and M3 .
Any radiant heat incident on the white face that reaches the middle of the mica , whether it afterwards is absorbed by the mica or reaches and is absorbed by the lampblack , tends to heat the second or blackened face more than the first , and therefore conspires with the heat incident on the lampblack , and absorbed by it , to produce positive rotation ; and the smaller thickness and less fine foliation of the natural mica are favourable to the transmission of radiant heat to such a depth .
1877 .
] Movements of Radiometers .
553 P.S.\#151 ; It might be supposed at first sight that the change of rotation from negative to positive ( in S 7 ) was due , not to a change in the conditions of absorption , but to the circumstance that the inner surface of the bulb had become warm by conduction , so as to be warmer than the surfaces of the fly instead of colder .
For we now know that the " repulsion resulting from radiation , " as in some way or other it undoubtedly does result , is an indirect effect , in which radiation acts only through the alterations it occasions in the superficial temperatures of the solids in contact with the rarefied gas ; and it might be supposed that when the innftr surface of the bulb passed from colder than the fly to warmer , the direction of rotation would , on that account alone , be reversed .
This , however , is not so .
If bulb and fly are at a common temperature , and the instrument is protected from radiation , the fly remains at rest whether the common temperature be high or low .
If a small portion of the total surface in contact with the rarefied gas be warmed by any means , repulsion takes place , through the intervention of the rarefied gas , between the warmed surface and the opposed surfaces , if not too distant ; if it be cooled , the result is attraction .
It does not matter whether the surface at the exceptional temperature belong to the fly or the bulb .
The former takes place in the ordinary case of a radiomter exposed to radiation , the latter in that of a radiometer at a uniform temperature and protected from radiation when a small portion of the bulb is warmed or cooled , in which case the part at the exceptional temperature repels or attracts the disk irrespectively of its colour or the nature of its coating* .
Suppose now that the fly is being warmed by radiation from without , the bulb being cool , at least at its inner surface .
Let A , B be the two kinds of faces of the disks , and suppose A to be the better absorber of the total radiation .
Then A will be the warmer , and therefore will be more strongly repelled than B. Suppose now that the bulb is heated till its inner surface becomes warmer than the fly .
Then the fly will still be receiving heat by radiation , to some extent also by communication from the gas ; but this will be the same for both faces .
Hence if A be still the better absorber of the two ( A , B ) , A will be the warmer , and being less below the temperature of the interior surface of the fly will be less attracted , or , which is the same , more repelled .
Hence , whether the inner surface of the bulb be cooler or hotter than the fly , a reversal in the direction of rotation , while the fly is being heated , indicates a reversal in the order of absorbing power of the two faces , and that , again , shows * Theoretically there would be a minute difference of temperature , produced , o er circumstances being alike , by the difference in the absorbing or emitting , power of the two faces of a disk , as regards the radiation which is the difference between the radiations from or towards the affected portion of the bulb and the same por ion a e normal temperature .
But this , and the repulsion or attention corresponding to ri , would be only a small quantity of the second order , the main effect being deemed one of the first order .
554 On certain Movements of Radiometers .
[ Dec. 20 , that the order is different for different components of the total radiation , and that the ratio of the intensity of those components has been changed .
It is perhaps hardly necessary to observe that the radiometers mentioned in this paper are of the usual form\#151 ; that is to say , that their arms are symmetrical , so far as figure is concerned , with respect to a vertical plane passing through the point of support .
Accordingly the rotation which is attained , for instance , with a radiometer with concave disks of aluminium , alike as to material on both faces ( of which kind , again , I owe a beautiful specimen to Mr. Crookes 's kindness ) , has not been referred to .
This rotation , depending on the more favourable presentation , to the bulb , of the outer ( and therefore nearer and more efficient ) portions of the fly on the convex than on the concave side , has nothing to do with the one isolated subject to which the present paper relates , namely , the elucidation of the peculiar behaviour in certain cases of certain kinds of radiometers , by a consideration of the heterogeneous character of the total heat-radiation .
November 20,1877 .
2nd P.S.\#151 ; This morning I received from Mr. Crookes an account of the behaviour of a kind of radiometer which he was so good as to construct at my suggestion .
The consideration of an experiment mentioned in a paper of his presented to the Royal Society , which will shortly be read , and which he has kindly permitted me to refer to , suggested to me the desirability of investigating the effect of mere roughness of surface , all other circumstances being alike , and the disk of the radiometer being metallic , so that the two faces may be regarded as practically at the same temperature .
Mr. Crookes 's experiment , above referred to , led me to suspect that mere roughness might increase the efficiency of a surface ; and I suggested to him some experiments with heated glass shades , or with a hot poker presented to the radiometer , the bulb being covered with a cool tumbler to defend it from being heated by the rays easily absorbed by glass .
The result in every case answered my expectation ; and it may be stated shortly that the law of the motion is that when the fly is hotter than the bulb the rough surface is repelled , or , say , the motion is positive ; when cooler , negative .
I subjoin Mr. Crookes 's memorandum of the results of experiment:\#151 ; " Aluminium Radiometer ( 1326 ) , one side of the vanes being ruled closely with a sharp knife .
" 1 .
Exposed to standard candle 3 inches off .
Continuous positive rotation ( ruled side repelled ) at rate of 3| revolutions a minute .
" 2 .
Exposed to non-luminous flame of a Bunsen burner 3 inches off .
Continuous positive rotation at the rate of 7| turns a minute .
Presents .
1877 .
] " 3 .
The Bunsen burner removed .
The positive rotation gradually diminished till it stopped .
No negative rotation .
" 4 .
The bulb heated with Bunsen burner .
Q-ood negative rotation ; then stopped , and rotated positively till quite cold .
" 5 .
Bulb covered with a cold glass shade , and a large red-hot ring applied round equatorially .
Positive rotation , but not very strong .
" 6 .
On removing the shade and ring the positive movement soon comes to rest .
" 7 .
Covered with a hot glass shade , negative rotation , with positive rotation on cooling ( the same as 4 ) .
" 8 .
Plunged into hot water .
Negative rotation .
" 9 .
Removed from the hot water , and immediately plunged into cold .
Positive rotation .
" Results nearly identical were obtained with another radiometer described as " silver radiometer ( 1327 ) , one side coated with finely divided silver , electro-deposited .
" We must accordingly recognize three distinct conditions under which motion may be obtained in a radiometer , namely:\#151 ; ( 1 ) difference of temperature of the two faces , as in a pith radiometer coated on one face with lampblack ; ( 2 ) more favourable presentation of one face than the other , as in a radiometer with curved disks ; ( 3 ) roughness of surface on one face ( if this be really different from 2 ) .
These three conditions may be variously combined so as to assist or oppose each other , as the case may be , in producing motion . .
December 20,1877 .
The Society then adjourned over the Christmas Recess , to Thursday , January 10 , 1878 .
Presents received , December 6 , 1877 .
Transactions .
London:\#151 ; Clinical Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
X. 8vo .
1877 .
The Society .
Geological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Yol .
XXXIII .
Part 3 , 4 .
8vo .
1877 .
' The Society .
Institution of Civil Engineers .
Minutes of Proceedings .
Vol. XLIX .
, L. 8vo .
1877 .
The Institution .
Linnean Society .
Journal .
Botany .
Vol. XVI .
No. 93 .
Catalogue of the Library .
Part 3 .
8vo .
1877 .
Tho Society .
Musical Association .
Proceedings .
Third Session .
1876\#151 ; 77 .
8vo .
The Association .

