1886 .
] On a New Form of Direct Vision Spectroscope .
449 that they are filled with processes from the follicular epithelium , and that the egg is nourished in this manner .
In the ova I examined I could not see any processes , but they have been noticed by other observers in larger eggs of fishes , as well as of reptiles and mammals .
IV .
The Follicular Layer .
The follicnlar layer in the mature ovum consists usually of a layer of closely-set cells , which , seen from above , have an hexagonal appearance .
A peculiar modification of the follicular cells is found in the shanny 's egg ( Blenniuspholis ) .
On one-half of the egg 's surface the cells are elongated , their depth gradually increasing towards a central point .
In this way the depth of the cells varies from 0*007 mm. to 0*032 mm. I never noticed follicular cells passing through the zona radiata , as has been described by many authors .
V. Development .
No observation was made as to the origin of the egg , and it could not be determined whether the ovum originated from a simple transformation of an epithelial cell , or whether several unite , as in " elasmobranchs .
" I am inclined to the belief , however , that Brock 's and Kolessnikow 's views are correct , according to whom only one cell is concerned in the formation of the primitive egg .
In small ova the follicular epithelium is composed of a few large cells .
There are several possible ways in which the follicular layer might have originated , either by an aggregation of epithelial cells round the ovum , as in elasmobranchs , or by a collection of connective tissue cells at the periphery of the ovum , or from the nucleus , as in many invertebrates .
I have not been able to come to any definite conclusion on this subject .
The egg membranes appear after the follicle .
The zona radiata is formed first , and , as well as the zonoid layer , it takes its origin from the yolk .
V. " Note on a New Form of Direct Vision Spectroscope .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor of Natural Philosophy , University of Cambridge .
Received November 18 , 1886 .
Direct vision spectroscopes are very useful in the observation of shifting objects , such as aurorae and other meteors .
They are generally in request for telescopic work , and also in all cases where rapidity of observation is of consequence .
Ordinary direct vision Messrs. G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dec. 9 , spectroscopes with compound prisms have the disadvantage that the dispersion of the red end of the spectrum is small ; less in proportion to that of the blue end than in spectroscopes with simple prisms .
Also no measurements of lines can be made with them , except by means of a scale fixed in the field of view , which it is often difficult to see for want of illumination .
Some time since ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 28 , p. 482 ) we brought under the notice of the Society a direct vision spectroscope on Thollon 's plan , which had not the faults of the instruments with compound prisms .
It gave a dispersion equal to that of two prisms of 60 ' , and excellent definition , but the number of reflecting and refracting surfaces which had to be truly wrought was rather large , and the movement of the prisms by a screw made measurements with it slow .
Since then we have tried a spectroscope with one of the Astronomer Royal 's half prisms , but we found it impossible to get good definition with the half prism for more than a small part of the visible spectrum ; and in consequence faint bands near either end of the spectrum were quite invisible with this instrument .
The arrangement we have now to describe was intended to obviate the defects of the others .
It has three prisms symmetrically arranged , the middle one serving both for refraction and reflexion .
The course of a ray through the prisms is indicated in the annexed diagram .
A ray Ini in the line of the axis of the collimator meets the first prism ABC in m , is refracted at m and n , meets the second prism EGB at o , and is then refracted , undergoes two internal reflexions at p and and is refracted out at r ; it is then refracted through the third prism DEF at 8 and t , and emerges in the direction tuy which is a prolongation of its original direction Im and coincides with the axis of the observing telescope .
The prism EGB is fixed , the other two prisms are movable about axes parallel to their edges passing through the points m and U They are rotated simultaneously in opposite directions by a pair 1886 .
] On a New Form of Direct Vision Spectroscope .
451 of linked levers , of which one carries a graduated arc of 9-^ inches radius , by which the angle of rotation can be determined .
Those rays which suffer no deviation in passing through the train , must all follow a course through the fixed prism parallel to opqr , whatever their refrangibility ; but the angle of incidence at o will be different for the different values of the refractive index .
By turning the two movable prisms into the positions shown by dotted lines the angle of incidence at o will be diminished , and a less refrangible ray will follow the course of no deviation .
If then the first position of the prisms ABC , DFE , be that for which an extreme violet ray incident in the line Im suffers no deviation , all the less refrangible rays incident in the same direction may be successively brought to suffer no deviation by turning the prisms towards the position shown by the dotted line .
The angles of the prisms have , of course , to be adjusted so that the extreme violet ray may suffer no deviation .
A simple calculation suffices for this when the refractive indices of the glass employed are known .
We have had the fixed prism constructed with the acute angles about 33j ' , and the movable prisms with angles about 62 " .
With these angles , when the movable prisms are so placed that the angles of incidence at m and of emergence at o are equal ( the position of minimum deviation ) , the ray which suffers no deviation is one somewhat more refrangible than K of the solar spectrum .
When then the prisms are turned , less refrangible rays are successively brought into the field of view , but no ray much more refrangible than K can be brought into the .field .
By increasing the acute angles of the fixed prism , or by diminishing the angles of the movable prisms , a longer range can be given to the instrument , but at the expense of some dispersion .
To prevent light passing directly from the collimator to the observing telescope , a stop HK is placed midway between the movable prisms .
It will be observed that the fixed prism serves both as a reflector and refractor , the dispersion produced by it being the same as that of a simple refracting prism of 46 ' ( or 186'\#151 ; 4EBG ) in the position of minimum deviation .
The dispersion for the extreme violet is therefore that of two prisms of 62 ' and one of 46 ' in the position of minimum deviation .
For less refrangible rays the position of the movable prisms is not that of minimum deviation and the dispersion is proportionally increased , so as to help , in a small degree , to correct the inequality of dispersion of the two ends of the spectrum .
At the same time the symmetry of the arrangement is maintained for all rays when in mid-field , and sharp definition is secured for all parts of the spectrum .
This is a most important character .
We find that with our instrument A and H of the solar speotrum are equally well seen , and so are the red and violet lines of the flame spectrum of potassium .
452 On a New Form of Direct Vision Spectroscope .
[ Dec. 9 , For greater convenience in manipulation , and at the same time to ensure a large angular aperture , our instrument has a short collimator and telescope .
The magnification of the image is in consequence but small , but nevertheless it is easy to see the nickel line between the two D lines in the solar spectrum , and the large angular aperture makes it easier to see faint spectra from large objects , as well as to catch the light of a moving object .
With an eyepiece of low power it serves- well for the observation of absorption spectra .
Measurements are made with it by bringing the line of which the position is to be measured to a fixed pointer in the middle of the field of view .
The whole angle through which the prisms have to be moved in passing from A to H is 10 ' 15 ' , and as it is easy to read quarter minutes with the vernier , considerable accuracy of measurement may be attained .
It must be observed , however , that the change of angle is not proportional to the change of refrangibility of the rays brought to mid-field , because a larger proportional rotation is required at the violet end , when the prisms are near the position of minimum deviation , than at the red end .
Still there is a rotation of 33 ' 30 " in passing from A to B. The prisms are enclosed in a box , and though this is an advantage in viewing faint spectra , it would sometimes be difficult to see the pointer without some means of illuminating either the pointer or the field .
We effect the latter object by a slit in the side of the box , and a small white paper reflector , ab in the figure , which throws light from the opening in the box on to the side of the object glass , clear of the prism .
The slit in the box may be closed with a shutter or with glasses of different colours .
Lastly , the instrument can be used either with or without a stand .
Without the stand it is light enough to be held in the hand and directed to the sky or to a moving object .
It has been constructed for us by Mr. Hilger with his usual skill .

