294 Mr. G. Gore .
The Minimum-point [ June 14 , June 14 , 1888 .
The Right Hon. the EARL OF ROSSE , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. John Hay Athol^JMacdonald ( Lord Advocate ) , Mr. Thomas Andrews , Mr. James Thomson Bottomley , Mr. Charles Vernon Boys , Professor Arthur Herbert Church , Professor Charles Lapworth , Professor William Ramsay , Mr. Thomas Pridgin Teale , Mr. William Topley , Professor Henry Marshall Ward , and Mr. William Henry White were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Minimum-point of Change of Potential of a Voltaic Couple .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1888 .
In a previous communication on " The Effect of Chlorine on the Electromotive Force of a Voltaic Couple " ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May 3rd , 1888 ) , I described a phenomenon which I now venture to term the " Minimum-point of Change of Potential of a Voltaic Couple .
" In that description a " thermo-electric pile " is mentioned as having been used for the purpose of balancing the electromotive force of .the couple , whilst finding the " minimum-point of change .
" As very few persons possess a thermo-electric pile suitable for the purpose , I have devised and employed the following arrangement by means of which the use of the pile may be dispensed with .
Take a voltaic couple , composed of an unamalgamated strip or stout wire of zinc or magnesium ( the latter is usually the best ) , and a small sheet of platinum , immersed in distilled water ; balance its electric potential through an ordinary galvanometer by that of a precisely similar couple composed of portions of the same specimens of the same metals , immersed the same moment as the other pair in a separate quantity of the same water , and gradually add to one of the two cells sufficiently small and known quantities of an adequately weak solution of known strength in a portion of the same water , of the substance to be used , until the balance is upset , and take note of the proportions of the substance and of water then contained in that cell .
It is more easy to successively dilute than to successively 1888 .
] Change of Potential of a Voltaic Couple .
strengthen the solutions , and thus arrive at the " minimum-point .
" The method is a little less accurate than the one in which a thermopile is employed .
By means of this method , using a couple composed of magnesium-platinum in distilled water , I have found the ' following " Minimum-points of Change of Voltaic Potential , " in solutions of potassic chloride , potassic chlorate , hydrochloric acid , and chlorine .
I selected these substances because they were representative ones , suitable to yield results for comparison , and because they gave extreme and intermediate magnitudes of the effect .
The results are compared with those obtained with a Mg + Pt couple and the thermopile .
Potassic Chlor , KC1 .
Solution at 18 ' C. ; " minimum-point " lay between 1 part in 3875 and 4650 parts of water ; and by the aid of the thermopile , with the solution at 17 ' C. , " minimum-point " between 1 in 3875 and 4305 .
Potassic Chlorate , KC103 .
Solution at 19 ' C. ; " minimum-point " between in 1 in 4650 and 5166 and with the pile , solution at 18 ' C. , between 1 in 4920 and 5470 .
Hydrochloric Acid , HC1 .
Solution at 17 ' C. ; " minimum-point " between 1 in 516,666 and 664,285 ; and by aid of the pile , solution at 19 ' C. , between 1 in 516,666 and 574,074 .
Chlorine , Cl. Solution at 18 ' C. ; " minimum-point " between 1 in 15,656,500,000 and 19,565,210,000 ; and with the pile , solution at 12'5 ' C. , between 1 in 17,000 millions and 17,612 millions .
These results show the great degree of delicacy of each method , and the extremely large difference of proportion of different substances required to upset the balance .
The two methods agree .
By employing a great variety of dissolved substances , I have found that nearly every such substance has a minimum proportion below which it has no apparent effect upon the electromotive force of a MgPt or ZnPt couple in distilled water ; and this proportion appears to be a constant number , dependent only upon very simple conditions , viz. , unchanging composition of the voltaic couple and liquid , a uniform temperature , and employing the same galvanometer .
The apparently constant numbers thus obtained may probably be used as tests of the purity or of the uniformity of composition of dissolved substances .
The " minimum-point " and degree of sensitiveness varies with , 296 Mr. G. Gore .
On the Change of Potential of a [ June 14 1st , the chemical composition of the liquid ; 2nd , the kind of positive metal ; 3rd , to a less degree with the kind of negative metal ; 4th , the temperature at the surface of the positive metal , and at that of the negative one ; and 6th , with the kind of galvanometer employed .
The order of the degree of sensitiveness or magnitude of the " minimum-point " is manifestly related to that of degree of chemical energy of the liquid , and , therefore , also to the atomic and molecular weights of the dissolved substances , and to the ordinary chemical groups of halogens .
With certain exceptions , it is also distinctly related to the amounts of chemical heat .
The greater the degree of free chemical energy of the dissolved substance , and the greater its action upon the positive metal , the smaller the proportion of it required to upset the balance .
The proportion necessary for this purpose probably represents a fixed amount of voltaic energy in all cases , viz. , the amount necessary to overcome the mechanical inertia of the needle of the particular galvanometer employed .
As the " minimum-point " of a chemically active substance dissolved in water is usually much altered by adding almost any soluble substance to the mixture , measurements of that point in a number of liquids at a given temperature with the same voltaic pair and galvanometer , will probably throw some light upon the state of combination and degree of chemical freedom of substances dissolved in water .
II .
" On the Change of Potential of a Voltaic Couple by Variation of Strength of its Liquid .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1888 .
Having found a thermo-electric pile ( see ' Birmingham Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 4 , p. 130 ) convenient in detecting and measuring small changes of voltaic potential ( \#163 ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May 3rd , 1888 ) , I have taken advantage of that circumstance to measure by the method of balance the above phenomenon in various liquids .
The following are a few examples of measurements thus made of the influence of varying quantities of different substances upon the electromotive force of a voltaic couple composed of zinc and platinum immersed in distilled water:\#151 ;

