290 The Intracranial Vascular System of By Arthur Dendy , F.R.S. ( Received March 30 , \#151 ; Read April 22 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) This memoir contains a detailed description , with illustrations , of the intracranial blood-vessels of the Tuatara , of which no account has hitherto been published .
The description is believed to be more complete than any hitherto given for any reptile , and a considerable number of vessels are described which have not hitherto been noted in Lacertilia .
This comparative completeness of detail is largely due to the employment of a special method of investigation .
By this method the entire contents of the cranial cavity are fixed and hardened in situ , and are then in excellent condition either for dissection or for histological purposes .
The brain does not occupy nearly the whole of the cranial cavity , there being a very large subdural space ( especially above the brain ) , across which many of the blood-vessels run , together with delicate strands of connective tissue which connect the dura matter with the pia .
The eyeballs are removed and an incision is made on each side in the cartilaginous wall which separates the cranial cavity from the orbit .
Acetic bichromate of potash ( made up according to the formula given by Bolles Lee ) is injected into the cranial cavity through these incisions , and the entire animal , after opening the body cavity , is suspended in a large volume of the same fluid for about five days , and then graded up to 70 per cent , alcohol .
When the cranial cavity is now opened up the cerebral vessels are seen with extraordinary distinctness , although they have not been artificially injected .
Further details were made out by means of serial sections , both transverse and longitudinal , and both of the adult and of advanced embryos ( Stage S ) .
In most respects the arrangement of the intracranial blood-vessels agrees with that found in the Lacertilia , so far as these have been investigated , but there is an important difference in the fact that the posterior cephalic vein leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen jugulare and not through the foramen magnum , while a slightly more primitive condition is shown in the less complete union of the right and left halves of the basilar artery .
Sphenodon makes some approach to the condition of the Chelonia in this latter respect , but differs conspicuously from this group in the fact that the circle of Willis is not completed anteriorly , as well as in the fact that no branch of the posterior cephalic Variations in Pressure and Composition of Blood in Cholera .
291 vein leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum .
A very characteristic feature of Sphenodon is the development of large transverse sinuses resembling those of the crocodile , but these communicate with the extracranial vascular system in quite a different manner from that described by Rathke in the latter animal .
The Variations in the Pressure and Composition of the Blood Cholera ; and their Bearing on the Success of Hypertonic Saline Transfusion in its Treatment .
By Leonard Rogers , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , F.R.C.S. , I.M.S. , Professor of Pathology , Calcutta .
( Communicated by Sir T. Lauder Brunton , Bart. , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1909 .
) During the quarter of a century which has elapsed since the discovery by Prof. Koch of the comma bacillus of cholera , research work has been almost .confined to the bacteriology of the subject .
Unfortunately , with the exception of M. Haffkine 's prophylactic inoculations , which are now very little used even in India , this line of work has done little or nothing to help the practitioner who is confronted with the treatment of this terrible disease .
FTo powerful antitoxic serum of practical value has been produced , and even if such should still be obtained , many patients come under treatment in such a state of collapse that no medicine can be absorbed , even if retained .
The old controversy between the evacuant and conservative methods of treatment has long since ended in the practically universal adoption of the latter , although as late as 1866 Dr. George Johnson advocated castor oil , denying that there was any relationship between the amount of fluid lost from the body and the mortality , while he strenuously opposed the use of intravenous saline injections to replace it .
There is still much difference of opinion about the latter treatment , for although all who have used transfusions testify to the remarkable immediate improvement in the pulse and general condition , yet this is commonly of such brief duration that many think it only serves to needlessly prolong the agony of the patient , so that of recent years it has been only exceptionally resorted to in India .
For a long-time I have been investigating the blood changes in cholera ( 1 ) , in \#166 ; the hope of finding some indication for a more rational and successful line of

