535 On the Use of Iridium Crucibles in Operations .
By Sir William Crookes , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received and read May 7 , 1908 .
) I should like to draw the attention of chemists to the great advantages of using crucibles of pure iridium instead of platinum in laboratory work .
Through the kindness of Messrs. Johnson and Matthey I have had an opportunity of experimenting with crucibles of wrought iridium , and have used one for several months in the usual operations of quantitative analysis in my laboratory .
Iridium is as hard as steel , and the crucible is almost unaffected by any mechanical treatment that can reasonably be applied to it .
Brightly polished iridium superficially oxidises with a bluish colour when heated to redness , but it is reduced again on raising the heat .
Repeated experiments , however , have shown that no appreciable alteration of weight is thereby caused .
Heated for some hours over a Bunsen burner insufficiently supplied with air the iridium crucible is unaffected and the deposit of carbon easily burns away , leaving the surface of the metal uninjured .
All chemists know how seriously a platinum crucible is attacked in these circumstances .
Iridium does not blister after long use , and it is unaffected by sulphur in the gas .
The crucible has been boiled in a beaker with aqua regia for several hours , the liquid evaporated down , fresh acids added , and the whole boiled down again .
There was no appreciable loss of weight .
Microcosmic salt was fused in the crucible at a good heat for four hours , with frequent additions of carbon ; a mixture of magnesium pyrophosphate and carbon has been ignited in it for four hours ; and phosphoric acid and carbon have been heated together for some hours in it .
In none of these cases was there any loss of weight or apparent action on the metal .
Silica and silicates , with a reducing agent , may be strongly heated in it for some time without forming a silicide or affecting the crucible .
Caustic potash fused at a red heat in the crucible attacks it , but not so strongly as it would have attacked platinum in the same conditions .
The crucible was heated to whiteness and melted lead was poured in .
The lead then was boiled away at a white heat .
There was no action on the crucible , and after cleaning with acids it appeared unchanged , with no alteration of weight .
Zinc was melted in it at a red heat and partially boiled away .
On cleaning 536 On the Use of Iridium Crucibles in Chemical Operations .
with acids the crucible was unaffected .
Zinc and acid zinc chloride ( soldering fluid ) were then heated in the crucible so that the zinc could " wet " it .
The heat was then raised to the volatilising point of zinc for some time .
On cleaning with acid the surface of the metal was seen to be superficially attacked , and the crucible had lost a few milligrammes in weight .
Copper melted in the crucible for some time makes it " hot rotten , " i.e. , it is brittle while hot .
But if the copper is well burnt off at a high heat the iridium reverts to its original condition .
Nickel , gold and iron can be melted and kept liquid in the crucible for some time , and then poured off with no injury to the crucible .
I have asked Messrs. Johnson and Matthey to make experimental crucibles of rhodium , ruthenium and osmium .
The latter two metals they have not yet succeeded in fashioning , but I have been enabled to try similar experiments to those described above with a rhodium crucible , and I find it practically as resistant in all cases as iridium .
The low density of rhodium ( 11 as against iridium 22 ) would be a great advantage in quantitative operations , as the weight of a rhodium crucible would be only half that of one made of iridium , and the cost would be somewhat less .

