1894 .
] On the Straining of the Earth resulting from Cooling .
141 III .
" On the Straining of the Earth resulting from Secular Cooling .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor Pointing , F.R.S. Received January 10 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) If the coefficient of dilatation ( e ) and the conductivity ( k ) are constant at every point within the earth , and if the temperature ( V ) was initially the same throughout , the depth of the surface of zero-strain after 100 million years is 2 '1miles , the total volume of the crust folded and crushed above that surface is about 184,500 cubic miles , and the mean thickness of the crushed rock spread over the whole surface of the earth is 4'95 ft. ( taking e = 0-0000057 , k = 400 , Y = 7000 ' F. ) .
The smallness of these figures has been claimed by some geologists as a new and strong argument against the contraction theory of mountain evolution . .
In the present paper the problem is reconsidered on the supposition that the coefficient of dilatation is not constant , but increases with the temperature , the change in the former varying as the corresponding change in the latter .
It follows , from experiments made by Fizeau , that , for a rise of one degree in temperature , the coefficient of dilatation increases on an average by about 1/ 888 .
Adopting this value , and taking the other constants as above , it is found that , after 100 million years , the depth of the surface of zero strain is 7'79 miles , the total volume of crust-folding about 6,145,000 cubic miles , and the mean thickness of the layer formed by spreading it over the whole earth 164*7 ft. If the conductivity increases with the temperature , or if the material which composes the earth 's interior be such that the conductivity and coefficient of dilatation are greater in it than in the surface rocks , or if initially the temperature increased with the depth , the figures given in the preceding paragraph must be still further increased .
It follows , therefoi*e , that calculations as to the alleged insufficiency of the contraction theory to produce mountain ranges are at present inadmissible .

