]\gt ; IIaving adjusted the galvanometer to the degree of sensitiveness desired , the copper ball was heated in the fiame of a spint-lamp till its ture was considerably above that required to throw the spot of light off scale ; it was then put into position in the interior of the tin-plate vessel and as soon as the spot of light came range , the deflections from .
the zero position were noted at intervals of one minute exactly till the change of deflection was reduced to about two scale-divisions per minute .
series of experiments were made in this way , each consisting of several sets of readings .
In the first the ball had a bright surface , and in the second it was coated with a thin corering of soot the flame of a lamp , and in both the air was kept moist by a saucer containing a quantity of water placed in the interior of the tin-plate vessel .
As the range of differences of temperatures of the junctions extended over Cent. , the change in the difference of thermo-electric qualities of the copper and iron wires forming the junctions was very considernble , * These experiments consisted of two series , one with the air moist by a little water placed in the interior of the vessel , the other having the air dried by substituting sulphuric acid for the water in the first ; and the results in the two cases were so nearlyalike , that any effect due to the moisture or ness of the air could not be distinguishedfrom rors of observation .
From this circumstance , as well as the limited range of tempe tures , results are not given here .
for Heat in Absolute Measure .
91 and it was necessary to make a careful thermometric comparison of the temperatures of the junctions and galvanometer deflections .
For this pulpose the junctions were tied to the ) ulbs of two previously compare thermometers , their stems divided to tenths of a degree en Cent. these were then placed in two vessels of water , one at the temperature of the , and the other heated by small additions of hot water , and kept well stirred ; simultaneous readings of the thermometel.s and galvanometer deflections were then taken at various of the scale* , from which the formula was obtained , where is the value of a scale-division in terms of a degree the galvanometer deflection ; and the difference of tem- perature of the junctionls is therefore from which the numbers in col .
II .
of the following Tables were calculated .
The method adopted in reducing the observations was this : single set of readings was arranged in a vertical column , and the series placed side by side with corresponding numbers in the same zontal line ; the means of the horizonlal lines were formed into a similar column , and divided into groups , each consisting of four .
consecutl } numb , and the means of these groups form the numbers in col .
I. of the bless .
Col. II .
contains the differences of the temperatures of the junctions at intervals of four minutes , cot.responding to the mean deflectioxls in col .
I. Col. III .
the colnmon logal.ithms of the numbers in col .
II .
Col. contains the differences of the successive numbers in col .
divided by 4 .
Col. .
is formed from col .
Iy .
, by multiplying by the Napierian logarithm of 10 , and is the rate at which the diffel.ence of temperature varies per minute .
Col. .
shows the quantity of hcat emitted from the in grammcater unils per square centimetre per second per degree of difference of temperatures , and is formed by multiplying the numbers in col .
by , a constant on the surface of the ball and its cftpacity for heat .
These eadings were plotteCl , and curve drawn the points very closely with a portion of a abolic curve whoso equation is denoting the lections of tho , and the dilference of tempclatu ] is a maximum when x , and , , colderjunction having been at Ccut , , we get ) as tho neutral point of the specimons of coppct .
and iron lvircs very close agreement with former obscrvations , considering the grcut distallco of point from temperatnre of the observations .
The lrface of the ) , anl its capacity heat

