]\gt ; 294 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
on some such view as that put forward by Pelseneer , and this is furtkr ?
confirmed by evidence , during the stages in which torsion is beingf effected , of an actual twist of the oesophagus , which keeps pace exactly with the torsion of the whole body .
Various monstrosities were , which all lent support to Pelseneer 's hypothesis rather han to Butschli 's .
Chief of these was a well-developed untwisted form , with symmetrical mantle cavity ad kidneys , and a strong tendency towards exogastric coiling of the visceral hump .
regard to the ontogenetic cause of torsion merely negative evidence lvas found .
That it is almost certainly not due to antagonism of growth between the foot and the visceral hump is shown by a com. parison between normal forms and monstrosities .
" " On the Intimate Structure of Crystals .
Part .\mdash ; Cubic Crystalb with Octahedral Cleavage By W. J. SOLLAS , D.Sc .
, LLD .
, , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxfor\amp ; ecelved April l May 23 , 1901 .
During the three years that have elapsed since the las6 part of this contribution was communicated to the Society , continued reflection has served only to confirm my that it is to the molecular .
volumes of crystalline matter we must turn for insight into its structure .
There are several points of detail in which the results already obtained might be usefully modified , but the discussion of these may safely be postponed for the present , while we pass on to more important matters .
For we have now reached a critical point in ] our enquiry , we propose to investigate more complex compounds than those hitherto considered , compounds also distinguished by a different crystalline structure .
If we find , and I think we shall , that the constituent atoms of these compounds retain the specific volumes , which were determined from a stndy of very different cases , then our ypothesis will begin to appear less speculative , and we shall be able greatsr confidence to extend our enqui1ies in other ections .
Triatomic compounds of the type are frequently represented cally in the way shown by fig. 1 .
Molecules in which the atoms FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
, Monncl ; ad atom .
On th timate Sof stals .
FIG. 3 .
a ) other similar one , but inverted , so that the paired atoms form the corners of a square , and the unpaired atoms rest upon them immediately over the centre of the square ( fig. 3 ) .
The resulting figure is that of an octahedron , and might be regarded as the crystalline element from which other forms could be builr up .
Within certain .
mits determined by the relative dimensions of the paired and unpaired atoms , such a primititive octahedron might possess the regular \ldquo ; characber , i.e. , lines obtairled by joining the centres of the aloms , or by drawing common tangent planes to their surfaces taken in threes , would be that of a regular octahedron .
This would obusly be the case if the atoms were all of squal size , but it might also be if the unpaired atoms were larger than the paired atoms , but more olosely approximate .
Yet such an octahedron could not by itself be oslashgarded as satisfying the requirements of cubic symmetry , for of the three rectangular axes which may be imagined to be drawn from the untre of the figure through the centres of the atoms , one , that which through the unpaired atoms , differs in its properties from the rest , inasmuch as it passes through two atoms of different kind to the other four .
It might be possible to uphold the view that in a chance distribution of such octahedra as many might be found lvith their single axis on one crystallographic axis as on another , but few crystallographers , I presume , would be prepared to admit that the exigencies of cubic ymmetry could be so easily satisfied .
It is possible , however , to arrange our octahedra into groups which are completely symmetrical .
In the case of regular octahedra , there would appear to be but one way of doing this .
We may lmagine three rectangular axes , the " " tetragonal\ldquo ; axes of the cubic system : Sach of these a primitive octahedron may be supposed to be placed , ao that the axis passing through the unpaired atoms may coincide with one of the semi-axes of the rectangular system ; and the other .
W. J. Sollas .
two axes , passing through the paired atoms , lie opposite and ctahedra aituate Ictahedra bther those o towards each other till they mest a form will result such as is shoWA plan in fig. 4 .
It will be observed that this configuration is stable , nate Strncturo of The two cases we described are extremes between hich t whole series of intermediate stages may exist .
It may be observed , wever , that gyrohedral hemihedry is associated with all these 1ntermediate stages , and that none but the extreme cases afford complete holohedry7 .
FIG. 5 .
The oonfiguration ill the intermediats forms is dent first on the relative dimensions of the two kinds of atoms , second on the distance between the unpaired atoms and the correlated distance between the paired atoms , and third on the amolmt of twist or rotation which must be given to the primitive octahedra to bring the atoms of adiacent octahedra into contact .
If the parameters on the axis of the unpaired atoms be shorter than those on the axes of the paired atoms , the first cass is impossible , because when the unpaired atoms near the origin are in contact , the paired atoms would not roonl to take the position described in Case I , and would either have to part with the unpairsd atoms , or the square figurs which they form would have to rotate about the axis on which its centre lies , till its diagonal when proiected on a plane containing this axis and one of the others has the same length as the parameters of the unpaired atoms , ?
, till the supposed proiect into principal sections of a 1 ' octahedron .
To bring the various figures which may result from the different ouping of primitive octahedra to the test oflered by a stndy molecular , it becomes necessary to devise a mode of partitioning space within the crystalline edifice in such a manner as to ass gn to each molecule its iate share .
Let planes be drawn para llel to any two of the rectangular axes through the centre of each primitive octahedron , these planes will intersect to form a cube , within lvhich will be contained six molecules of the crystal , i.e. , Prof. W. J. Sollas .
halves of the primitive octahedra , and so much of interstitial spacau must be assigned to them in an equal partitioning of space .
volume of this cube therefore be given by dividing the weight of the crystalline substance by its specific gravity and plying the molecular volume so obtained by 6 .
The cube-root of nnmber will give the edge of the cube .
; Plan of assemblage of pl.imitive octahedra dyad atoms indicated three concentrio cilcles , monad atoms by single circles .
The mineral chosen for our first essay is silver suIphide : because we have already obtained what appear to be very trustworthy .
values for the diameter of the atom of silver , which is , both the free state and in its haloid compounds , and for sulphur , which in galena has a value of .
The molecular lveight of silver sulphide is , its specific gravity has been variously determined as from to , we take the mean , which is , the molecular volume is thus , this multiplied by 6 is extracting the cube root we have as the length of the edge of the cube , to which all subsequent calculations must be referred .
Given the dimensions of the atoms of silver and sulphur as stated bove , then if they are arranged as in Case I , the edge of the cube ; On Structure of Crystads .
299 molecules would occupy must have a length of , or in excess of that obtained from the molecular volume .
Silver iuPhide consequently does 1lot possess the structure described in , and Case II may be shown to be impossible , unless the dimenof the consbituent atoms bs taken as for the diameter of in excess of our previous determinations , and that of lsulphur as , which is in excess , and in this calculation the of the cube is determined from the maximum specific gravity iimstead of the mean .
It is of course possible that atomic volumes actually do vary to the this would indicate , but there would seem to be no apparent reason why silver , which retains with remarkable constancy the same ; tomic volume in the free state and in combination with the haloid lements , should undergo an increase in dimensions on combination with sulphur : it would therefore seem likely that the arrangement of the atoms in silver sulphide is gyrohedral .
It has been asserted that the edge of the cube obtained when the atoms of silver sulphids are ranged according to Case I , measures , while that of our cube reference obtained from the molecular volums is only .
To lransform the larger cube into the smaller , we may first push in towards the centre of the cube the outer atoms of sulphur ( fig. 7 , A ) , till FIG. 7 .
the point midway between them and the inner atoms lies on the centre of the face of the cube of reference .
In this way we shall have reduced our deduced cube to the dimensions of that obtained from observation .
This operation also fixes for us the relative position of the itoms .
But by thus causing the atoms of sulphur to approach , we have at the same time caused the atoms of silver to diverge from each other the manner shown in fig. 7 , , which is a section baken through two rectangular axes of a primitive octahedron .
The atoms of silver are now much too apart to permit of the diagonal of square figure which they form being brought into coincidence with a line parallel and equal to the edge of the cube of reference .
The requisite space for them on the face of the cubs must be by otating the primitive octahedra , till the paired atoms at the corners LXIX .
Structure of Crystcds .
glprite , iustifies the treatment of the ensuing discussion to a great by constrnction .
ab ( fig. 8 ) be any line drawn in the face the copper square .
When the construction is made , it will be found that the circles to a very slight but appreciable extent .
The smallness of the amount of the intersection suggests we have not been far out in our calculation , and leads to the conclusion that some slight reduction in the dimensions of the atoms of copper accompanies a change irom the free state to that of combination , as indeed might naturally be expected when the loss of energy which accompanies this change is onsidered .
On this assumption we may legitimately reduce the diameters of our circles in fig. till the latter just touch .
The diameters thus pass from to .
This is a limiting value ; the Btoms may be slightly smaller , for they are probably 1lot in actual contact , but they cannot be larger .
The effect of the reduction in the diameters of the atoms of copper 302 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
must next be represented in the section shown in fig. .
The tion is readily made by a slight enlargement of the atomic oxygen , the diameter of this becoming We are now in a position to determine the amount of rotation the primitive octahedra must undergo so that the centres of the atolt of copper may be situated in the face of the cube of reference .
Mr. Harold Hilton , Fellow of Magdalen College , has kindly plied me with the following solution , in place of my geometrical struction .
Let ( fig. 10 , be the centre of the group of the six ' each of which consists of four copper and two oxygen spheres .
be the centre of one of the inner oxygen spheres , centres of the four copper spheres in the same octahedron ; and correspond to in a neighbouring octahedron .
Let \amp ; centre of the square be U. Let the radii of the copper oxygen spheres be respectively .
The centres of all the copper spheres of the six octahedra lie on sphere with centre A. Let , AD ' mest this sphere in , and let the great circles meet in being the centres of two copper spheres ( from dilferent octahedn ) which touch .
Then we have from symmetry HK HH ' , And hence readily HK Sppansion than that of the atoms of silver ; from this analogy and that Gl sulphur and selenium as compared with copper , we may plausibly gppose that the oxygen of cuprite has a larger coefficient than the pper .
If this view } ) admitted as having some likelihood , important nsequences follow from it ; to examine these let us consider the effects a rise of temperature upon the configuration ; the first result will be expansion of atomic volumes , but sincs according to supposition , the atoms of oxygen enlarge at a higher rate than those of copper , the in sizs of the two kinds of aloms will be increased , but if the ntres of the oxygen atoms be regarded as fixed in space , this will about an increase in the divergence of the atoms of copper from lnother , and thus an incrsase in the length of the diagonal of the pper square .
So far all these changes are in the direction of exnsion , but it has next to be remembered that an incrsase in the hngth of the copper diagonal does not necessarily involve an increase in the total volume of the configuration , because this diagonal may rotate in a dirsction which leads towards the configllration of the iting case 2 , which is that of minimum volume .
Expressed crudely it may be said that room is furnished for the horeased volume of the oxygen by utilising the space which lies in the On the Structure of Crystals .
ve studied .
Thus comparing Kopp 's volumes in the two cases Cuprite m.v. , , deduct .
Tenorite m.v. , , , , Cu .
Thus by Kopp 's method the volume of oxygen in cuprous oxide is warly twice that which it possesses in cupric .oxide , and as this is are is om being an isolated instance of this relation of the volumes of xygen in related compounds , Kopp very naturally came to the conusion Lhat the volume of oxygen varies different compounds by multiple , and since he found it ing a still less value in lome other cases , he imagined it might be reduced to one-half or onequarter of its normal value .
In the present instance there no need to have recourse to such an explanation .
In the crystalline structure cuprite open spaces exist , sufficiently large and ntlmerous to contain .one more oxygen atom than the molecule possesses .
; in this respect it might be said that the volume of oxygen cuprite is double that it in tennorite , but this would be a very illogical way of stating the facts ; the vacant space is no more the property of the oxygen than of the copper , and , if our conclusions are , the truer view wou ld be that in both oxides the volume of oxygen is identical , or very nearly and that the apparent difference in volume is a natural result erence in configuration of the crystalline Fluorspar , : m.v. 78 ; to meaIl ( taken ) : m.v. , the edge of the cube of reference .
This mineral is of importance to our iIlvestigation , as it affords an opportunity of obtaining a value for the volume of fluorine ; but we are confronted by a difficulty at the outset , since the diametel diameter of the atom of calcium has been calculated from a single instance only , an lcium oxide .
it was concluded to that a not very promising one , , ca be 2.27 .
If now we place an atom of calcium in octahedra contacv dral with five others about the centre of the cube of reference , we shall find that it is too large to in , the length of a tetragonal axis that it would appropriate is , while the length on the ax rom from the centre to the SUl.face of the cube is only ; the atom wou ld consequently protrude for a distance of , and the greatest diameter which it can possess to bring its surface just flush with the facs of the cube is We may accept this provisionally as the approximate value for thed diameter of an atom of calcium ; it differs from that previously obtain by Since the outer surface of the atom of calcium contained within the cube is in contact with the face of the cube , it follows that it aso al touches the atom of calcium which lies outside the cube , and comp etes let On of ystals .
the primitive octahedron in that direction .
As a consequence \amp ; atoms of fluorine must be as widely divergent from each as possible since no gyrality has been detected in any of the numerous formt of fluorspar , it may be concluded that they are disposed in symmetry ; this cannot be that of case 2 , for this would not permit contact between the fluorine atoms of adjacent primitive octahedra .
'rtnd thus would not be compatible stability ; we are thus led to attribute to fluorspar the structure of case 1 .
Calculating from these premises it is found that the diameter of the atom of fluorine is measured by the quantity ; from this it follows that the gross volume is , a result in accordance what knowledge we possess of the gross volume of fluorine in other compounds .
It lvill be observed that this number is smaller than that previously assigned to the diameter of an atom of hydrogen .
The hardness and cleavags of fluorspar stand direct connection with its structure ; its perfect octahedral cleavage may be correIated with the vacant spaces which remain in the crystal as a consequence of the symmetricaI disposition of the complex octahedraI groups ; its hardness both with this and the arrangement of the atoms within the octahedral gronps .
The difference in the hardness in different directions has been very carefully explored ; on the faces of the cube its maximum lies parallel to the tetragonal axes , its minimum to the digonal axes , and it is in these directions that the atoms are respectively in closest proximity and the reverse ; on the octahedral faces the maxima lie parallel to the trigonad axes , and the minima to the digonal axes , whioh again are directions of greater and less proximity of the atoms .
In concluding this part of the subject I desire to express my cordial thanks to Professor Miers for much friendly criticism and useful advice .

