]\gt ; I*Todhunter on the Attraction of Spheroids .
507 with every conceivable modification and check .
Some few of have already been published in the ' Chemical News , ' but are here rdIrred to for the sake of comprehensiveness .
At present the writer does not venture to put forth ally definite theory rpwting the presence and nature of the nuclei which are so universally dibed throughout the atmosphere ; but when it is considered how much sodie ohloride is constantly present in the air , and what quantities of sulphurous acid evolved daily , which becomes partly converted into sulpkuric acid , the presence of particles of sodic sulphate in the air wo uld not be urprising ; and that it does exist is proved by drawing air through water and flnding comparatively large quantities in the solid matter arrested by mter .
Sodic sulphate tions , too , crystallize on exposure much more readily than those of any other salt .
The other salts which form supersaturated solutions are certainly less diffused than sodic sulphate .
XXI .
" " Note relating to the Attraction of Spheroids.'2 By I. NI .
A. , F.R.S. Received May 16 , 1872 .
In a memoir on the Attraction of Spheroids , published in the ' Connaissance des Tems ' for 1829 , Poisson showed that certain important formulae were true up to the third order of the standard small quantity .
The object of this note is to establish the truth of the formulae for all orders of the small quantity .
1 .
Suppose we require value of the potential of a homogeneous body at any point .
Take a fixed origin inside the body ; Jet denote the polar coordinates of any point of the ; and let be the polar coordinates of the assigned point ; and , as usual , put for , and for .
The density may be denoted by unity .
Then the potential V is given by the equation where .
integration must extend over the whole body .
B uppose that is greater than the greatest value of ; then can be expanded in a convergent series of powers of Thus .
for example .
let the body be an ellipsoid , and take the centre origin : let denote the semiaxes in descending order of magn1tude .
Then , if is greater than , the expansion be effected in the stated ; and so a convenient expression may be obtained for tential o an ellipsoid on an external particle .
This expression , howuot demonstrated to hold for every external particle , but only for series .
3 .
Still it has been usual with riters on the Attraction of and the Figure of the Earth to leave this point unexamined .
They , in assume that formulae which are demonstrated on a certain condition true , even when that condition does not hold ; so that , for example , prcssion obtained strictly for the potential of an ellipsoid on an particle when is than , is assumed to be true for any externel particle .
4 .
Poisson , however , has drawn attention to the difficulty ; his discu* sion of it is the main part of his elaborate memoir " " Sir l'Attraction Spheroides ) was published in the ' des Tems ' for 1829 .
He shows that the ordinary formulae , although obtained in an inadequate manner , are really true as far as the terms of the or le ' in cfusive , where is the well-known standard small quantity of such invn tigations .
I propose to extend process so as to show that the result is true for all powers of It will be to give some prelimin transformations ; this do with brevity , referring to Poisson 's memoir for detail .
5 .
It is convenient to separate into two parts , one being the potcntig of a sphere of radius the other the potential of the cxcess of spheroid above the sphere ; the word excess is here used in an brnku sense , for the surface of the spheroid is not necessarily all to thul of the sphere .
Thus we obtain .
where denotes the radius vector of the surface of the spheroid corre .
sponding to the angles and ; so that the integration with respect to is to be taken between the limits .
The integration for mity be idered to be taken the surface of a sphere of unity ; we may denole an element of this surface by , and use symbol instead of 6 .
Now , for those elements in the integral in which have less , the rndical must be expanded in powers of ; and for those elemen which } greater , the adical must be expanded in Mr. I. Todhunter on the Attraction of Spheroids .
509 tun on the right-hand side of ( 2 ) the integration with respect to is to extend over so much of the surface of a sphere of radius unity as corre- to negative values of ; and in the third term the integration with respect to is to extend over so much of the snrface of the sphere as corresponds to positive values of .
By is denoted a summation with respect to the integer for vnlues from zero tc infinity .
7 .
By a certain quautity to the second term on the right-hand of ( 2 ) , and subtracting the same quantity frown the third terln , we obtain , finally , , .
( 3 ) where stnnds for In the second term on the right-hand side of ( 3 ) the tion for extends over the whole of the sphere of radius unity ; and this I denote by explicitly putting the limits and .
But in the third term the inlegration for extends only over that portion of the which corresponds to positive values of ; and this I denote by leaving the limits unspecified .
8 .
For the rest of this paper the notation just explained will be strictly eserved .
If the integration with respect to extends over the whole surface of the sphere , the limits will be expressed ; if integration extends .
only over that portion of the surface which corresponds to positive values of , the limits will not be expressed .
9 .
The alue of obtained in ( 3 ) is quite gener ] , but it is specially couvenient for the case of external particle .
Poissou gives also nother form which is specially enient for the case of an internal particle .
It will be sufficient for us to confine ourselves to the case of an external pnrticle , as the same process readily applicable to the case of artide .
10 .
For external particle which is sufficiently remote , the third term on the right-hand side of ( 3 ) vanishes , because in this case is never poritive ; so that we have then simply Now whnt we to show is that this will also for exlern ticle .
In other ords , it must bc for nrticte .
( 4 ) 610 Mr. I. Todhunter on the Attraciion of Spheroids .
11 .
Put for .
Then ' 12 .
Let be a discontinuous function of and , such that is alwaya equal to when is positive , and always zero when is tive .
Then , for all values of , we have This is very important step in Poisson 's process ; and he explains it vdth dequate care .
We may suppose that is expressed by means of a sedtl of Laplace 's functions .
13 .
As we may also suppose expanded in a series of Laplace 's funetions , it will follow , from the well-known properties of such functions , that , ( 8 ) where is the value of when and .
But , by snpposition , ( is zero .
Hence and therefore In precisely the same manner we have 14 .
Thus far Poisson carries his process .
His words itre , on his .
simplifier la question , on neglige ici les puissances de rieures a la troisieme , ou autrement , on borne tion B quantites de l'ordre inclusivement I am not certain whether Poisson himself had carried his investigutu beyond this point .
In the ' part of his memoir he certainly imPW Mr. I. Todhunter on the Attraction of Spheroids .
that results which partly depend on the present investigations are true for nll powers of .
It seems , therefore , curious that he did not here explain how the terms which involve powers of above the third vanish .
so as to make ( 4 ) absolutely true .
To this we now proceed .
15 .
In Art .
11 we see that the coefficient of is .
Hence we have to show that Now , by the ture of Laplace 's coefficients , we have .
( 6 ) Hence , by two integrations by parts , we find that , for abbreviation , is used to denote the operation which , as performed on , is expressed on the right.hand side of Then , in the same way as ( 5 ) is obtained , we have ; is zero , for every term involves as a factor .
Hence , finally , 16 .
In Art .
11 it will be found that the coefficient of is zero .
The coefficient of is that is , ' that ' tlut is , .
Mr. I. Todhunter on the Attraction of Spheroids .
Hence we have to show that The second term we see vnnishes by the proce of Art .
lo .
As to first term , must pply t process twicc ; and we sh then sfom this term into ; and , as before , this is equal to , which vanishes , every term will have ns a Pactor .
17 .
In Art .
11 it will be found that the coefficient of is , and hence term may be treated as the term was in the preceding Arlicle .
18 .
Generally the coefficient of in will be found to be and hence , in to carry on the process like that in Art .
16 , we must that this coefficient will take the form where is some rational integral function of This may be etsablished inductively .
ssume that the required theorem holds for a certain value of , and nlso for the value ; then it will hold the value For let it be assumed that and also that vbere and ralional integral functions of ; then to that take a similar form .
We mfty denote our two assumed results thus : \mdash ; ; : Mr. I. Todhunter on the Attraction of Spheroids .
513 and then we have to investigate the form of .
Now the two following tities may be verified:\mdash ; , .
Hence where is a rational integral function of .
Hence , as we have seen by actunl inspection that for values of up to 7 incIusive the required form is obtained , it follows that this form will be for all positive integral values of 19 .
We may collect our results into two propositions , one of elementary algebra and one of the theory of Laplace 's functions .
Let stand for and suppose greater than , so as to ensure convergent series when the binomials are expanded in powers of ; then the coefficient of every power of is the product of into some rational integral function of Let be a Laplace 's functiou of the usual variables and , and the same function of and ; and suppose greater than ; then is a function of and its differential coefficients , which involves as a factor , and so vanishes when vanishes .
20 .
I have not proposed to examine any difficulties which a reader may find in Poisson 's process , but only to show that it can be made to furnish a general result instead of the result to the third .
Poisson 's memoir has been much used by Bowditch in his translation of the ' Me'canique Celeste , ' with a commentary ( see vol. ii .
p. 1 ; but Bowditch conAnes himself to the same order of approximation in the theorem as Poisson .
Nay 3 , 1872 .

