II .
Under certain conditions of temperature and pressure , the very complicated spectrum of hydrogen is reduced in our instrument to one line in the green corresponding to F in the solar spectrum .
III .
The equally complicated spectrum of nitrogen is similarly reducible to one bright line in the green , with tracesof other more refrangible faint lines .
IV .
From a mixture of the two gases we have obtained a combination of the spectra in question , the relative brilliancy of the two bright green lines varying with the amount of each gas present in the mixture .
V. By removing the experimental tube a little further away from the slit of the spectroscope , the combined spectra referred to in II .
&amp; III .
were reduced to the two bright lines .
VI .
By reducing the temperature all spectroscopic evidence of the nitrogen vanished ; and by increasing it , many new nitrogen-lines make their appearance , the hydrogen-line always remaining visible .
The bearing of these latter observations on those made on the nebulue by Mr. Huggins , Father Secchi , and Lord Rosse is at once obvious .
The visibility of a single line of nitrogen has been taken by Mr. Huggins to indicate possibly , first , " a form of matter more elementary than nitrogen , and which our analysis has not yet enabled us to detect * , and then , secondly , " a power of extinction existing in cosmical space " t. Our experiments on the gases themselves show not only that such assumptions are unnecessary , but that spectrum analysis here presents us with a means of largely increasing our knowledge of the physical constitution of these heavenly bodies .
Already we can gather that the temperature of the nebulae is lower than that of our sun , and that their tenuity is excessive ; it is also a question whether the continuous spectrum observed in some cases may not be due to gaseous compression .
II .
" On the Molar Teeth , lower Jaw , of Macraucihenia patachonica , Ow .
" By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. Received April 21 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The intraneural course of the vertebral arteries is limited , in the class ]Iamnmalia , to the Ungulate Series , and is present in very few of these .
Of existing species it characterizes the Camelidce , occurring also , as shown in Palauchenia , in the fossil form of that family ; but this rare disposition of the vertebral arteries was likewise met with in a large fossil Ungulate of South America , Macrauchenia , belonging to the Perissodactyle group* .
The author therefore communicates , as an appendix to his former paper on Palauchenia , a description , with drawings , of the mandibular dentition of Macrauchenia patachonicha , of the natural size , the lower jaw of that fossil animal being still a unique specimen in the British Museum .
It displays the entire molar series , with the exception of the first small premolar : the several teeth in place are described in detail and compared with those of other Perissodactyles .
The grinding-surface of the true molars presents the bilobed or bicrescentic type , as in Palceotherium and Rhinoceros ; but Macrauchenia differs from both those genera in the limitation of the assumption of the molar type to the last premolar , the antecedent ones retaining the single-lobed crown .
From Palaeotherium it further differs in the last molar being bilobed , as in Rhinoceros , not trilobed .
In Palauchenia all the premolars have the simpler structure , as in Artiodactyles generally .
Macrauchenia resembles Anoplotherium and Dichodon in retaining the typical dentition , i3- , c j , P-4 m= 44 , and in the uninterrupted course of the dental series , not any of the , teeth having a crown much higher or longer than the rest .
The paper is illustrated by drawings .

