430 On the Ultra-Violet Spectra of the Elements .
[ Mar. 15 , 2 .
During totality I was directed to look for currents in the corona .
I can only report a negative result .
The structure of the corona appeared in a 4-inch refractor , with a power of 80 , to be radial to the limb throughout , and no striking differences in special localities were noticed .
Appended to the paper are two di'awings which do not attempt to give more than the distances to which the coronal rays extended in various directions .
One was made by Mr. St. George with an opera glass , and the other by Lieutenant Smith with the naked eye ; but in the latter case the observer 's eyes had been specially covered fifteen minutes before totality , and the brighter portions of the corona were screened from him by a disk of angular diameter three times that of the moon .
He consequently traced the rays much further than Mr. St. George , though , allowing for this difference in conditions , the drawings are fairly accordant .
HI .
" On the Ultra-Violet Spectra of the Elements .
Part III .
Cobalt and Nickel .
" By Gf .
D. Liyeing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received February 27 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The authors compare the results obtained by the Rutherfurd grating which they used in measuring the wave-lengths of the iron lines with those obtained with the larger Rowland 's grating used for measuring the wave-lengths recorded in this paper , and tind them closely concordant .
They next compare the measures of wave-lengths of the cadmium lines obtained by them by means of a plane Rowland s grating and a goniometer with an 18-inch graduated circle with those obtained by Bell with a large concave gTating of 2o feet focal length .
The result of the comparison is that the plane grating gives measures which agree very closely with those given by the concave grating , while the former gives more light and is better for complicated spectra , such as those described in this paper , because the overlapping spectra of different orders are not all in focus together as they are when a concave grating is used .
The authors give a list of 580 ultra-violet lines of cobalt and 408 lines of nickel .
They find a certain general resemblance of the two spectra , but no such exact corrrespondence as the close chemical relationship of the two metals would render probable .
They point out that the coincidences of lines of the two metals are hardly , if at all , more in number than would have been the case if the distribution of the lines had been fortuitous .
They give a map of each spectrum to the same scale as* Angstrdm 's normal solar spectrum .

