An Account of some Fossil Remains of the Rhinoceros , discovered by Mr. Whitby , in a Cavern enclosed in the Lime-stone Rock , from which he isforming the Break-water at Plymouth .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read February 27 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 176 .
] Having been requested by Sir Joseph Banks carefully to preserve such organic remains as might be found in the quarries -whence the supplies of limestone for the break-water at Plymouth are drawn , Mr. WThitby , who has the superintendence of the undertaking , transmitted , in November 1816 , a box of fossil bones , which form the subject of the present communication .
According to nIr .
Whitby 's report , they were found in a cavern of the solid limestone rock , fifteen feet wide , forty-five long , and twelve deep .
It was filled with clay , and the bones lay about three feet above the bottom .
-This cavern is about seventy feet below the 6(7 Aurface of the rock , and four feet above high-water mark ; and although considerable pains were taken to discover its outlet , no communication of the kind was found .
Mr. Whitby mentions that caverns have been frequently discovered in this limestone , the walls of which have been encrusted with stalactitic concretions ; but in the present case no such appearance was observed in any part of the cavity , -a proof , says the author , that no opening in the rock from above had ever been closed up by the process of infiltration .
In further confirmation of this circumstance , Mr. Whitby has stated that in the contract for quarrying there are two prices ; one for rock , and another for clay , earth , and rubbish ; and that two officers constantly attend , one for the Crown and the other on the part of the contractors , who measure the contents of all caverns containing clay or other soft materials ; and that these officers distinctly state that the rock surrounding the cavern was equally hard with the other parts .
All the bones discovered in this place belong to the rhinoceros , and are evidently parts of the skeletons of three different animals .
They are in a most perfect state of preservation , and every part of the surface entire , to a degree very seldom observed in fossil bones ; and as the teeth of the rhinoceros differ both in form and structure from those of every other known animal , there was no kind of difficulty in recognising them .
Every portion of the bones also possessed some characteristic feature proving it to have belonged to the same animal .
The animals to which these bones belonged seem to have been nearly of the same size , and very large , for on comparing the fossil metacarpal bone , with that of the largest rhinoceros ever seen in this country , the skeleton of which is in Mr. Brookes 's collection , 'that of the former was 8inches long and 24 inches broad , while in the latter the length was only 7H inches and the breadth 2|inches .
This skeleton stands 5 feet 8 inches high .
It deserves remark that all the bones found in this cavern belong to the same species of animal ; for although great pains were taken to ascertain whether there were any others than those sent to London , none were discovered .
Some comparative chemical analyses of different fossil bones are annexed to this paper , from which it appears that those above described are remarkably free from extraneous earthy substances , and consist almost entirely of phosphate and carbonate of lime , with only slight traces of animal matter : whereas most of the fossil bones discovered in the blue clay at Brentford , and in the argillaceous limestone at Lyme in Dorsetshire , yielded considerable portions of aluminous and siliceous earth .

