452 Prof. A. Cayley on Quaniics .
[ June 20v the yellow being the least marked .
The red , green , and bine are however particularly well rendered by reflected light , and the plate shows the colours as seen when a dull light is thrown on the slit of the spectroscope , a simile which was suggested to me by Mr. Norman Lockyer .
From the evidence obtained by these experiments it appears that two or three molecular groupings are sufficient to give the necessary colours , a subject which I only allude to , since the more general question of molecular groupings is being considered by others .
III .
" A Tenth Memoir on Quantics .
" By A. Cayley , Sadlerian Professor of Pure Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received June 12 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The present memoir , which relates to the binary quintic ( *)(\#187 ; , y):\ has been in hand for a considerable time ; the chief subject-matter was intended to be the theory of a canonical form discovered by myself , and which is briefly noticed in " Salmon 's Higher Algebra , " 3rd Ed ( 1876 ) , pp. 217 , 218 ; writing a , b c , . . .
u , v , w , to denote the 23 covariants of the quintic , then a , b , c , d , f are connected by the relation / 3 = \#151 ; a ?
d -f- a2bc \#151 ; 4c3 ; and the form contains these covariants thus connected together , and also ; it in fact is . . .
( 1 , 0 , c , f , a2b \#151 ; 3c2 , a2e \#151 ; 2cf)(x , y)s .
But the whole plan of the memoir was changed by Sylvester 's discovery of what I term the Numerical Generating Function ( N.G.F. ) of the covariants of the quintic , and my own subsequent establishment of the Real Generating Function ( R.G.F. ) of the same covariants .
The effect of this was to enable me to establish for any given degree in the coefficients and order in the variables , or , as it is convenient to express it , for any given deg-order whatever , a selected system of powers and products of the covariants , say a system of " segregates these are asyzygetic , that is , not connected together by any linear equation with numerical coefficients ; and they are also such that every other combination of covariants of the same deg-order , say , every .'congregate " of the same deg-order , can be expressed ( and that , obviously , in one way only ) as a linear function , with numerical coefficients , of the segregates of that deg-order .
The number of congregates of a given deg-order is precisely equal to the number of the independent syzygies of the same deg-order , so that these syzygies give in effect the congregates in terms of the segregates : and the proper form in which to exhibit the syzygies is then to make each of them give a single congregate in terms of the segregates , viz. , the left hand side can always be taken to be a monomial congregate aabp . . .
, or , to avoid fractions , a numerical multiple of such form , and the right hand 1878 .
] Prof. A. Cayley on side will then be a linear function , with numerical coefficients , of the segregates of the same deg-order .
Supposing such a system of syzy-gies obtained for a given deg-order , any covariant function ( rational and integral function of covariants ) is at once expressible as a linear function of the segregates of that deg-order ; it is in fact only necessary to substitute therein , for every monomial congregate , its value as a linear function of the segregates .
Using the word covariant in its most general sense , the general conclusion thus is that every covariant can be expressed , and that in one way only , as a linear function of segregates* or , say , in the segregate form .
Reverting to the theory of the canonical form , and attending to the relation f* \#151 ; \#151 ; ct ?
d + a*6c \#151 ; 4c3 , it thereby appears that every covariant multiplied by a power of the quintic itself , a , can be expressed , and that in one way only , as a rational and integral function of the covariants , a , b , c , d , e , f , linear as regards / ; say , every covariant , multiplied by a power of a , can be expressed , and that in one way only , in the " standard " form .
As an illustration , we may take a2h= 6acd + 46c* + of .
Conversely , an expression of the standard form , that is , a rational and integral function of a , , c , d , e , f , linear as regards / , not explicitly divisible by a , may very well be really divisible by a power of a ( the expression of the quotient , of course containing one or more of the higher covariants , g , Ji , \amp ; c. ) , and we say that , in this case , the expression is " divisible , " and has for its " divided " form the quotient expressed as a rational and integral function of covariants .
Observe that , in general , the divided form is not perfectly definite , only becoming so when expressed in the before-mentioned segregate form , and that this further reduction ought to be made .
There is occasion , however , to consider these divided forms , whether or not thus further reduced , and moreover it sometimes happens that the form presents itself or can be obtained with integer numerical coefficients , while the coefficients of the corresponding segregate form are fractional .
The canonical form is peculiarly convenient for obtaining the expressions of the several derivatives ( Gordan 's " Uebereinanderschie-bangen " ) , ( a , b)1 , ( a , 6)* , \amp ; c. ( or , as I propose to write them , 1 , a.62 , \amp ; c. ) , which can be formed with two co variants the same or different , as rational and integral functions of the several covariants .
It will be recollected that , in Gordan 's theory , these derivatives are used in order to establish the system of the 23 covariants , but it seems preferable to have the system of covariants and , by means of them , to obtain the theory of the derivatives .
I mention , at the end of the memoir , two expressions ( one or both of them due to Sylvester ) for the N\G.F .
of a binary sextic .
The several points above adverted to are considered in the memoir ; the paragraphs are numbered consecutively with those of the former memoirs upon quantics .

