6 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
[ Jan. 6 , T into the denominator of the second term ; they evidently differ from our first equation p = IT\#151 ; a , in which a is independent of temperature .
We shall soon be in a position to communicate the results of this investigation , giving full data .
[ January 18th , 1887.\#151 ; We have alluded to Clausius 's formula , RT c p =-------- ' ^is ^a^iesi ' published formula is , however , .
BT c ^ v\#151 ; a,0('y+/ 3)2 ' where 0= aTn\#151 ; As the second term is here also a function of temperature , it is evident that his last equation is also not in accordance with the simple relation = 6T \#151 ; a ] .
III .
" Note on Lepidodendron Harcourtii and L. fuliginosum ( Will .
) .
" By W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College and in the Victoria University .
Received November 27,1886 .
In March , 1832 , the late Mr. With am read to the Natural History Society of Newcastle-upon-Tyne the first public notice of the classic specimen of Lepidodendron known as Lepidodendron Harcourtii .
Still later ( 1833 ) he published further figures and descriptions of the same specimen in his work on ' The Internal Structure of Fossil Vegetables .
' Additional figures and descriptions of the same object appeared in the second volume of Lindley and Hutton 's 'Fossil Flora , ' and in Brongniart 's ' Vegetaux Fossiles .
' But notwithstanding all these publications the exact plant to which they referred has long been doubtful .
I hoped to have found either the original specimen ] in the museum of the Yorkshire Philosophical Society or the sections described by Lindley and Hutton in that of the Newcastle Society ; but , though carefully sought for , I long failed to discover either one or the other .
In 1871 , I laid before the Royal Society my memoir , Part II , " On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures , " in which I figured ( Plate 25 , fig. 12 ) , a plant that seemed to me to be identical with L. Harcourtii ; and in Part XI ( 1880 ) of the same series of memoirs , I gave further representations of the same plant ( Plate 51 , fig. 10 ; Plate 49 , fig. 11 ) .
Since the publication of the latter memoir I have obtained a fine seines of specimens , which appeared to me to approach still more closely to the various representations of Lepidodendron Harcourtii , referred to above , and which inclined me to think that I had hitherto included two species under a common name .
The two forms unmistakably belong to a common type , to which I 1887.1 Lepidodendron Harcourtii and L. fuliginosum .
7 have frequently had occasion to refer as " the type of L. characterised by the possession of a very distinct parenchymatous medulla , surrounded by a sharply-defined non-exogenous vascular zone the tftm medullavre of Brongniart\#151 ; and by the almost entire nhqpnce of any exogenous vascular zone ; the chief exception to the last feature being represented in the Plate 49 , fig. 11 , referred to One of the most characteristic features seen in my new specimens occurs in the structure of the foliar bundles .
These have been large , and in transverse sections of a stem they are rendered increasingly conspicuous , by the disappearance of a considerable amount of cellular tissue which originally belonged to them , but which is now only represented by a clear vacant space .
What remains of these bundles is equally characteristic .
In each case the bundle appears to be a double one ; owing to the preservation not only of its vascular or zylem part , but also of a distinct and separate string of what has obviously been a modification of the hard bast of the phloem part of the bundle .
A further feature occurs in the almost invariable disappearance of the entire inner cortical zone .
Yisiting York a few weeks ago , I made a fresh search for Har-court 's original specimen , and with the kind aid of the officers of the museum I was this time successful .
The specimen represented on Plate 98 ( fig. 1 ) , of the 'Fossil Flora , ' vol. 2 , was discovered , and by the kindness of Mr. Reed , the intelligent Honorary Curator of the geological department of this museum , I have been permitted to obtain a transverse section of it .
It is now certain that my more recently acquired specimens represent the true L. Ear gout tii , and , in all probability , fig. 9 in Plate 52 of my Part XI is a very young branch of the same species .
Those previously figured by me and referred to above are certainly distinct .
They are characterised by the greater uniformity in the composition of the entire cortex , the inner part of which is preserved , and by the absence of the duplex structure of the foliar bundle .
The small size of the cells of the inner cortex , and the dense aspect both of it and of the foliar bundles ( see fig. 10 , Plate 51 , Part XI ) , give to transverse sections of the form so sooty an aspect contrasted with the luminous semitransparency of the true L. Harcourtii , that I propose to recognise the former as Lepidodendvon fuliginosuvn .

