Structure of the Skull in Urod Amphibia .
333 II .
" On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Urodelous Amphibia Part I. By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) Through the kindness of several friends * I have been enabled to work out the development of the skull in a Salamandrian type , which can now be compared with that of a Batrachian .
I Avas the more anxious to do this work perfectly ( it had been done in part ) because Professor Huxley showed me , some two years ago , certain errors in my first paper on the Batrachian skull ; and I wished not only to go over that ground again , but also to have the morphology of the Salamandrian type of skull quite mastered , so that the two might be compared together .
Moreover one important error in my first paper ( on the Prog 's skull ) arose from my taking it for granted that a certain element , the " stapes , " arose similarly in the two groups .
Also an impetus was given to me by the publication of Professor Huxley 's article on the " Amphibia " in the ninth volume of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' and his invaluable paper on the skull of Menobranchus(a low Perennibranchiate Urodele ) in the 'Proceedings of the Zoological Society ' ( January 1874 ) .
In the present paper I have shown the condition of the skull in nine stages of the Axolotl ( Siredon ) ; and then , as a tenth stage , the skull of Amblystomci is given , the Salamandrian into which certain individual Axolotls pass when they take on a higher metamorphic condition .
But the earlier stages of the cranium of Siredon are well illustrated by what is seen in the lower Perennibranchs .
Prof. Huxley 's interesting Menobranchus is not nearly so low and simple a type as that here given by me , namely Proteus .
* Moreover the truly Salamandrian is not an average kind of " Caducibranch , " but differs from the majority of the species in several particulars .
Serionata perspicillata , one of the smallest of the order , is a good average type ; and happily a little larva of this species gives me an intercalary stage between my third and fourth of Siredon .
The materials here offered to the Royal Society are but a portion of what I could have offered ; but as the bulk of such a communication would have been far greater than I can ask space for , I have here and there made reference to unpublished matter on the skull of a number of these tailed Amphibians .
After describing these skulls in their stages , and through their changes , I have made a somewhat detailed comparison of the Salamandrian with the Batrachian type of skull .
* Messrs. Gunther , Flower , Murie , Mivart , A. Agassiz , Rupert Jones , and Teget-meier , especially the last named .
Mr. W. K. Parker on the Structure of [ Nov. 23 , Then , at the end , as I am spending my life not to illustrate the cranial morphology of this type or of that , but as digging down to find one common root , I have made an incipient attempt at showing what is common to the whole series of the Vertebrates\#151 ; of the brain-bearing Vertebrates , at any rate .
It is evident that beneath the neural axis , which arises in " epiblast , " there is a foundation , laid in " mesoblast , " of the whole animal , from its snout to the end of its tail .
This foundation , or rather root-stock , is double , and each moiety lies right and left of a truly azygous structure , the notochord\#151 ; a structure which , according to some , arises in the mesoblast also , but which , according to the latest and best observations ( namely , those of Mr. Balfour ) , arises , in the Selachians at Jeast , in the lowest layer , the " hypoblast .
" Whether the notochord is mesoblastic or hypoblastic , at present is not of vital moment to the morphology of a vertebrated animal : the important points are that the notochord is universal , and that it always passes some distance into the skull .
There are several important modifications in the region of the head , as compared with the body generally , that make the problem of cranial morphology an extremely difficult one .
To mention some , there are:\#151 ; ( 1 ) the swelling of the neural axis into three vesicles ; ( 2 ) the flexure of the head upon itself ; ( 3 ) the development of three pairs of sense-capsules , that press upon its sides and mingle with its structures ; ( 4 ) the union of a palatal diverticulum with the brain to form the pituitary body , thus arresting the median notochord ; and ( 5 ) the dying out of the pleuro-peritoneal space in the region of the throat .
Thus the modifying causes are manifold in the head of a vertebrated animal , \#151 ; some of them showing their effects very early in the life of the embryo ; whilst others , that relate to the specializations of the parts of the cranium and of the parts of the face , the parts that encircle the mouth and sense-capsules and that form the basket-work of the branchial apparatus\#151 ; these appear later .
Tor details of what can be seen in the growing skull of a Salamandrian , I must refer to the main paper .
Here I may remark that , while the development of the Batrachian skull seems strongly to favour the doctrine of th e facial nature of the " y\gt ; ro-notochordal " bands ( " trabeculae " ) , the study of the Urodelous type suggests that they are truly basal ( basicranial ) .
In front they are evidently facial , or belong to the visceral-arch series , and are axial to the premaxillary arch ; but in the internasal and interorbital regions they are very probably mere continuations of the parachordal tract of mesoblast which in the trunk gives rise to the bodies of the vertebrae .
1876 .
] the Skull in the Urodelous Amphibia .
335 The difficulty with regard to the existence of another preoral arch is now settled ; the so-called " antorbital " cartilage of TJrodeles is a distinct ethmo-palatine rudiment of a visceral arch , and crops up in several groups ; the pterygoid foregrowth of the suspensorium is another thing , a symplectic process , and not an independent arch .
The Urodeles differ from the Batrachia in having an " ascending process " to their suspensorial " pedicle ; " only in Proteus is this absent , because only in this type does the trabecula fail to send upwards an ali-sphenoidal crest .
Late or early , the Batrachia never fail to develop an epihyal ( hyo-mandibular ) segment , and this is always specialized to form the " columella auris .
" Proteus develops a large , and Siren and a small , cartilage of this nature : it is never specialized into a columella , however , in them .
In twelve other kinds ( " Caducibranchs " ) I have failed to find a rudiment of this segment .
In the Batrachia , as I have shown ( the fact was first pointed out to me by Professor Huxley ) , the stapes develops in the fenestral cleft as an independent cartilage .
Tn the Salamandrians , as I long ago asserted , the stapes is segmented off from the pre-existing cartilage of the floor of the periotic capsule .
I erred in supposing the frog 's stapes to be formed in the same way .
In the Batrachia , as I correctly showed in my first paper , a ray from the elbow of the suspensorium becomes detached , to form part of the external auditory apparatus ; not , however , the " columella , " as I supposed , but the cartilaginous annulus t That ring of cartilage I correctly referred to the category of " branchial rays , " such as ai'e seen in the Selachians : it is , in truth , their spiracular cartilage ( that of the sharks , not that of the skates , which is a free metapterygoid segment ) .
As a rule , in the Urodeles , there is a suspensorio-stapedial figment running forwards beneath the " portio dura " nerve ; in my chief instance , the Axolotl , there is , instead of this , a fascia passing over that nerve to the place of the spiracular ray of the tadpole , namely , the back of the suspensorium above .
In the huge Menopome , which partly loses its gills , and in certain small true Caducibranchs ( namely , S , S. rubra , gnathus fuscus ) there is a recurrence of the spiracular cartilage over the portio dura .
This generally attaches its small posterior end to the face of the stapes , and then is encupped by the stapedial ossification : on one side of mognaihus it does this , and on the other it is distinctly ossified , and not fixed to the stapes .
This succedaneum for the true columella is very large in the Menopome : it is a thick but somewhat flattened cartilage , in outline like a VOL. xxv .
2 B Mr. W. K. Parker on the Structure fyc .
of [ Nov. 23 bell-flower , and having its broad-lipped end attached , like a snail 's foot , to the top of the back of the suspensorium , and its small roundish end , or apex , set in a neat bony cup that grows from the face of the stapes .
Nevertheless the " spiracle " or " tympano-Eustachian cleft , " is scarcely at all apparent in the Urodeles ; in the Batrachia it is large within , but never fairly open externally .
In the Urodeles I miss entirely the copious labial growth of cartilage outside the true visceral arches ; and although lacertina has horn on its jaws , I feel certain that its mouth is never suctorial even in a very early stage .
It is not suctorial in the " Aglossal Toads , " as I have recently shown , but they have a rich growth of labial cartilages .
There are some more very important facts in the morphology of the skull in the Urodeles that I am anxious to lay before the Society .
The nasal roofs are free , independent " paraneurals , " and not mere outgrowths of the trabeculae ; thus they correspond with the eyeballs and ear-capsules .
The trabeculae cranii appear much later than in the Batrachia , and are at first ( a ) relatively much smaller , and have three or four times as much of their substance situated paracho The hinder half of the basilar plate , or " investing mass , " is formed as a pair of distinct cartilages .
The trabeculoe chondrify four or five days later than the visceral arches , and the " parachordals " ten or twelve days later than the trabculse .
My earliest observations of the notochord , in unhatched Axolotl " fry , " show only a moderate downbend of the apex of the notochord .
But Mr. Balfour 's observations show that in Selachians it is like a sheep-hook ; mine , on older embryos , show a condition of the notochord in front , seemingly due to pressure in growth against the pituitary gland .
I have not seen in Amphibia what Grotte shows in the Bombinator Toad , namely , a cartilaginous notochordal sheath ; this is well seen , however , in embryo sharks and rays .
But nothing seen in sharks and rays is more suggestive than what I am in this paper describing in the Urodeles , for they form two rudimentary vertebral centra behind the pituitary body .
Besides this , in several kinds , that part of the notochord which , in the " Sauropsida , " is jammed in between the investing-mass cartilage , where it forms the median occipital condyle , is in certain Urodeles formed into a small , imperfect , intercalary vertebra .
This vertebra is formed of a pair of " parachordal " patches of cartilage and a tract of notochord which gets its own bony sheath ; the side pieces ossify independently ( in Spelerpesrubra ' ) , and then coalesce with the anterior part of the notochordal segment .
We have thus , in front of the vertebra which serves as the " atlas " 1876 .
] the Skull in the Urodelous Amphibia , 337 to carry the head , an imperfect vertebra with a broad fore end : in the adult ( Spelerpes , Triton ) this joint has coalesced wTith the head-carrying vertebra , and forms its odontoid process ; it then resembles the true odontoid process of an ox or sheep .
I cannot refrain from coupling the facts above given with another , namely , that the " hypoglossal " is a spinal nerve in these and other Idhthyopsida .
That the fore end of the notochord should vary in the cranium of different types of Vertebralu is not to be Wondered at ; the two evanescent vertebral rudiments in the hind cranium of the Urodeles and the intercalary joint may be set over against what I have lately made out in the Selachians .
In the Sharks the cartilage on each side of the notochord in the neck ( itself ensheathed in cartilage ) is some time before it breaks up into the moieties of centra , and these do not correspond in number with the neural arches .
In the Hays we have a similar state of things ; but I cannot discover any segmentation of the cervical parachordal tracts , even in young unhatched skates that have acquired their final form .
In this very imperfect abstract I have made mention of those things that have produced the greatest effect upon my own mind , not caring so much for order as for suggestiveness .
A true theory of the skull does not yet exist ; it draws near , however , to the time of its delivery .
November 30 , 1876 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in tlic Chair .
General Smythe , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of \#163 ; 245 carried from the preceding year , amount to \#163 ; 17,895 13s .
11c ? .
; and that the total expenditure in the same period amounts to \#163 ; 17744 15s .
, leaving a balance at the Bankers ' of \#163 ; 126 15s .
, and \#163 ; 24 3s .
11c ? .
in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
2b 2

