]\gt ; Mr. J. E. H. Goldon on the [ June 10 , preparations the varions conditions of a fungus , to which he gave a generic and a specific name , and although he professed to find the various conditions of spore , mycclium , and fructification occurring in their naturad sequence , and t sequence to correspond with the ular annce of the pathological process , there is no doubt that this circumstantial account rests on erroneous ation and on defective ideJlcc , thnt ] ppearances found in the of the sheep are nolle from the of albuminoid fluids lder p XII .
Determination of Vcrdet 's in Absolute \ldquo ; By J. F. H. , Gonvillc and Caius Collcgc , Cam\mdash ; lst and 2nd .
Communicated by J. Junc 5 , .\mdash ; The of ] done under Prof. Clerk super.ce ; he suggested the ] and all the details .
He is , ]Jowever , in no lesponsible for ally elrors be in the ults .
] In the year hat if plane rized light pnsses , and these meditt bc cted o by sufficiently magnetic , the plane of is rotated .
the ) ] mination of 'Ann .
de Chimie et de Phx-s .
' 3 and medium , " " the betn the slrcngtl ) of hc gnct a the mount of lotttion is constanl The of tho pJescJlt research is to determine this constant in absolute measure\mdash ; that is , in hc C.G.S. In order that the measuremc ] be exprcssed in bsolute units , it is necessary to modify Yerdet 's mode of in ernl respects .
In particulnr , all iroIl c ] lsuifable for this from , bolh ] and the d of he netic force the poles ( } ] on ] of core , and caTlnot be hc of ] the helix .
Faraof rotating the plane of ere also ) to be as stalldard , on OUllt of cult .
of nring s exttctly aliko .
The following method as :\mdash ; magnetic force as produced of electric curreIlt in a ' is is ltch m fully 's ' ' vol. ii .
p. 400 , The coclficicnt lncnlionc last of tlIe ticlc J be 's Collstant .
In ] ) .
the iclentity of is shown .
1876 .
] Determination of Verdet 's Constant .
helix without an iron core , ] bisulphide of carbon , enclosed in a tube with glass ends ] acedw.ithin the helix , chosen as the medium .
of the curl'ent in the helix deduced from the deflection of a small suspended to it aJld outside it , and the rotntion was snred by mealls of a divided The then itself iufo th :\mdash ; 1 .
crmination of of the hclix .
2 .
of the the rotation per unit of length bore to .
tangent of the deflection of suspended lleedle .
3 .
ion of the horizonlal compollent of the earth.s magnetism the time and of ation .
TIIE EXPERIMENTS .
of of To number of windings , it is lecessary to 1-now the difference of at the of the helix a unit current in ire .
To deternline this the ltul]or places the I dynamometer snspends a Ilet and mirror the celltrc of the dynaeler .
sliding the l1clix endn along axis , so to poinfs of it er the suspended mirror , he obtains the netic these in Ierms of that of the unmomoter , hich is lrrents { set in oppositc directions helix and momcf er fill the nction 0 the lspcnded m is zero .
By these alues the axis veen limits diug to the ends of the hel , the difference of etic peJltial { the ends for a curlent is .
A rule as Boole 's ' inife Drenccs , ' p. 4 is used for the is called from it is deduced the number of 's Electricity , ' art . .
After the mechanical and a of the coJlnexions , the aulhor Table shon the resuIts of the experiments for the determination of The results are equation of units is shovll to be the of of the sions , and therefore a number .
Dcter of the ength of current helix the deflection of a snspcn outside , the sum of ained by comparing the actio ] ] of he helix a .
J. L. .
Gordon on the [ June 15 , with those of coils of ]nown alcas .
Two coils were , a small one and the great electro-dynamometer of the British Association .
With the small coil the same currents were sent through a coil and helix , and the distances from the suspended aried ; while with the large one the ances the curlents varied .
These latter experiments were made by Prof. ]}faxwell .
The ving v were then obtained for the area of the helix:\mdash ; By the nuthor with small dynamometer , sq .
ltims .
; by Prof. bfaxwell wibh large dynamometer , .
centims. ; the mean , , of these as adopted .
Calculation of the strength of ) in of the deflection of the the .
and in the cular to its The author shows that this is where is the distance from the suspended magnet to either end of the axis of the helix , and the component of the 's magnetism at the time and place of observation .
for is the rotation of the polarized lay expressed in ] measure between two points in its path , whose metic p differs by unity ; thus where and are the ends of he tube , and is the difference of the circle dings expressed in circular snre .
An ttion is for the rence of at the ends of tube ( A B ) of finite length projecting at each end of the helix .
The letters being in the order , the for becomes The uthor explains at length the method of adjusting the and scale .
A for deducing the angular deflection from the is obtained .
Determination of 's Constant .
The Liyrht .
light was used , obtained by ving a on card , in hich ) as slit to the reqmred .
A method of is , , are the ) of hc that of cell thallium line : Sct .
1 . . . .
the ] of the circle to the of tltc of H. tlet n at the .holme , optical ( then cing t Pixhole from fhc the { imcs of ) nenf .
used the ined olme II at Ke of lucs of olmc at the of the three ) alues of the qnalltity be constant : rence 0 per cent. , if be tho in bisulphide of carbon of the tion of the riLy bosc is betwcen points whose entials diffor by unity , .
ilnensions of the constant are ' co very ords of to for his reat ] in lI10 hole of the eight ulouhs .
it in ress .
cords his to ] ) eral other d sis of used .

