XXI .
A Letter from LEWIS WESTON DILLWYN , Esq. addressed to Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , Bart. P. R. S. Read March 25 , i824 .
MY DEAR SIR , T HROUGH yOU I beg leave to offer to the Royal Society , some further observations on the relative periods at which different families of testaceous animals appear to have been created , and on the gradual approximation which may be observed in our British strata , from the fossil remains of the oldest formations to the living inhabitants of our land and waters .
The series of strata beginning with transition lime and ending with lias , contains shells belonging to various genera of conchifera , cephalopoda , annelides and herbivorous trachelipoda ; and also some other shells , as for instance , the multilocular and spiriferous bivalves , which cannot be referred to either of those natural orders , or groups of genera , into which all the other testacea .
both recent and fossil , have been divided .
In the simple bivalves belonging to these strata , the marks which best serve to distinguish their families are generally obliterated , and but little more can with any certainty be observed , than that the two orders into which LAMARK has divided them , have existed together throughout every formation from transition rocks to the present day .
An examination of the few perfect specimens which I have met with , however , leads me to suspect that all the dimyairia of these strata have the ligament external , and consequently , that internal ligaments were confined to the monomyairia , till after the lias had been deposited .
In the secondary beds above the lias , all the shells may be referred to some of our now existing orders of animals , and the extinction of the unknown orders is immediately followed by the first appearance of another order of mollusca , to which LAMARCK has limited the name of gasteropoda , and , as was first suggested to me by Mr. MILLER , all those fossils of the older strata , which have been supposed to be inside and outside casts of patellae , were obviously formed in the concave sides of the vertebra , or by the intervertebral cartilages of a fish .
As a few of the carnivorous trachelipoda are said to have been found in the oolites , their first appearance may probably be referred to the same epoch ; but I have not myself been able to detect either of the families of this section of trachelipoda in any secondary bed , excepting the denuded tracts of green sand in Devonshire ; and there , perforations exactly similar to those which abound among tertiary and recent shells are also of frequent occurrence , although I have never met with any such perforation in any other secondary formation , nor even in any of those regular beds of green sand , which actually underlie the chalk in other counties .
I am not enough of a geologist to decide , as to whether any admixture of secondary and tertiary fossils may possibly have taken place when these denudations were made , but I can in no other way account for the fact , that all the species which have been perforated , as well as the carnivorous trachelipodes themselves , are nearly similar to those of the London clay ; and I have never been able to find any 414 such.perforation in either of those species which are found in the more regular beds of green isand , and which are sometimes mixed with them .
These perforations may be readily distinguished from those more oblique and lateral burroWings which are often found in secondary fossils , and are always conveniently formed for suctionby being broadest in the outer surface , and go straight through that ipart of the shell which is immediately over the animal ; whereas in the latter the holes are cylindrical , and.-much smore resemble the indiscriminate burrowings which are common in recent oyster shells .
In my former Letter , which the Royal Society hasdone me the honour to publish in the Philosophical Transactions of last year , I have pointed out some of the changes which took place immediately after the chalk formation was completed ; and of the British strata itmay be further observed , that it is only in the tertiary beds that any traces of the cirrhipeda , or of any of the families of naked mollusca have been found .
The beak , which has been figured -by BLUMENBACH , : and which.among the fossils of the lias is mentioned by CONYBEARE:and PHILLIPS as the beak ofo a sepia , belonged , as : I think , unquestionably , to the cephalopode animal of an ammonite ' ; and it sufficiently resembles the lower mandible of the parrot-like beak which RTuoPHws has described of nautilus pompilius .
As might ' be expected , if these mandibles , or rather casts of mandibles , belong to the ammonites , they differ generically in , shape from those of every living.genus of chephalopoda which hasbeenfigured or described , and I have found them in all those beds ; and , so far as I can 415 ascertain , they have been discovered in those beds only of the lias , lower oolite , and chalk , which contain the larger ammonites .
From the greater tenuity of these beaks in the smaller species , they may 'probably have yielded to pressure , and decay before the mud which filled them had become sufficiently hard to retain their shapes ; and as the lower mandibles of the cephalopoda are always much larger and thickerthen the upper ones , the non-appearance of any of the latter may be accounted for in the same way .
The sepiae are moreover furnished with one of those thick dorsal plates which are commonly called cuttle-fish bones , and most , if not all the other sepiadse , contain an internal horny substance of the same nature , which is generally at least as thick and durable as the mandibles ; and if the fossil beaks of the secondary strata belonged to this family , then , in all probability , some of the dorsal plates would be found with them ; but nothing of the kind has been discovered in any older British stratum than the London clay .
So far from being able to detect any traces of the naked mollusca , I have not been able to find , in the secondary strata , either of those shells by which the animal is only partially covered , nor any of those of the convolutae , which necessarily change their shells at different periods of their growth , and of which the animal must therefore occasionally remain exposed , till a fresh coat of calcareous matter has been secreted .
In my former Letter I have stated , that all the marine spirivalves of the secondary strata belong to operculated genera , and these observations serve still more strikingly to prove that , till the chalk deposits were completed , the mollusca , in our 416 latitude , required a more perfect protection either from their enemies , or from the surrounding element , than afterwards became necessary .
The same gradual approximation towards recent shells , which may be traced in the older strata , is also carried on through the tertiary formations , and the affinity , which is complete with respect to orders in secondary beds above the lias , becomes further extended , and every tertiary shell may be referred to some existing genus ; but though the approximation has proceeded thus far in the London clay , yet all its immensely numerous species are now extinct ; and it is only in those uppermost beds of crag , which lie between the London clay and our present creation , that any fossil can be completely identified with a living species : the shells which may be thus identified are however mixed with many extinct species ; and though the fossils of the crag appear generally to have belonged to a warmer climate than ours , yet their character is much less tropical than those of the London clay , and in every respect they all approach nearer to the present inhabitants of the British coasts .
I have already observed , that the shells of unknown families are confined to the beds below the lower oolite- ; and in all the upper formations a relationship is completed between fossil and recent shells in the following regularly approximating series .
In the secondary strata above the lias as to natural orders , in the London clay as to genera , and partially as to species in the crag .
These observations refer exclusively to the animals of the gth , loth , iith , lath , and isth classes of invertebrata in LAMARCK'S arrangement ; and whether the same sort of regularly approximating affinity can be observed in the other classes , I must leave it for those who are more conversant with them to decide .
I remain , my dear Sir , very faithfully your 's , L. W. DILLWYN .
Penlkergare , :eb .
I , 18z4 .
Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , Bart. P.R.S. &amp;c. &amp;c.

