]\gt ; [ 247 ] VII .
On Cubics .
CHARLUTTE ANGAS SCOTT .
, Dr. A. R. FORSYTH , Received Sept. 9 , \mdash ; Read November 23 , No systematic investigation by simple geometrical methods of the variatio of the Hessian and Cayleyan as dependent on the variation of the fundamental cubic appears to have been undertaken hitherto , though the relation of the three curves has been oughly studied both geometrically and analytically .
This investigation however appears desirable , not only for itseIf , but also for sake of the explanation it offers of the importance and interest of some special cubics .
In the ] owing pages the first few sections are devoted to tain constructions for the curves , which then applied to special cubics , among these the equianharmonic cubic , whose known properties present themselves simply by means of the preliminary constructions .
The cubics here considered are , as } ) ears in the next section , the cribical ones when we follow out the variation of the Hessian Cayleyan .
In conclusion , the results are compared with those derived by nalysis , and are exhibited graphically by means of a single diagram .
I. of the Cubic , its Hessicm .
Figs. 1-3 .
1 .
Let hree collinear inflexions of a cubic be ( fig. 1 ) ; call the tersectious of the tano e at these inflexions , the points in which they meet the harmonic polars , the points which the harmonic polars , i.e. , meet the line of inflexions , and the intersection of the harmonic polars , so that and the line ( I ) are pole and polar with regard to the triangle Let the points of contact of the three tangents from , which are necessarily on the harmonic polar , be , \amp ; c. The arrangement of the 's is determined by a consideralion of the sixteen lines that have ( I ) for tellite .
These sixteen lines are ( 1 .
) ( 2 .
) , which must pass through one of the points this point , and similarly select by means of ; then will For is harmonic , as also the point iu which meets the harmonic polar hence must meet on , i.e. , on 21.7.91 2 .
The three collineal inflexions with their tangents amount to eight conditions ; thus any one of the nine points completes the determination of the cubic ; consequently the two points be determinable from ; as a matter of fact they resent themselves as the foci certain involution .
are harmonic with regard to OG .
One of the four poles of the ( fig. 1 ) with regard to the cubic is ; hence , estimating on the transversal we have . . . . . .
, Now sidel .
the OG , i.e. , , meets \amp ; c : , and meets in I , \amp ; c. , the1efore the line ( I ) is the polar of with regard to this triangle .
Hence , agaill estimating on the transversal . . . . . . . .
( u. ) From and ( ii .
) , i.e. are harmonic with regard to OG .
* Poiuts on ho three hal.monic polars are naturally by sullixes 1 , , 8 ; but as the conclusions are indifferently to the poinls on auy one hal.monic polal , though all the constructions , the suffix 1 is in general d1opped in the text , while ffie suffixes 2 , 8 are retained .
The , in S4 are special positions of rojection through intersection omeet passes through , hence 1rmonic wegard tbices.that Iwhich barmonic smeet hMISS .
SCOTT OLANE C Now the line ( I ) is the polar of with regard to the cubic , and therefore From ( iii .
) and ( iv .
) , ' armonic wegard tThus kherefore given wiven .
are the foci of the invoIution chemes crojected iother ; uding fcubic , cubics.ework .
Buti.bics wxhausted t\ldquo ; coincidence ; thus.different positions ohree Kgive exhibiting cnown fnature obihties orojection , eans oringing tubics tgoes tnfinity , lways udiagram .
This stion idopted fiagrams hcheme depends ostraight 1husbic depends oarameter oroject sbecomes e found that must bherefore tMISS CCOTT OLANE CUBICS , are the foci of .
But and are respectively and , therefore are the foci of OD , ; also they are known to be harmonic to .
Now in the original cubic ( fig. 1 ) , on the tangent at ; hence , referring this to the Hessian , meet on the tangent at , i.e. , on IT ; call their point of meeting ( fig. 8 ) ; we have to determine .
Since OD , , TS are in involution , Project the left-hand side throngh , and the right-hand side through I3 , on to IT , we then obtain points being shown i. e. , ; therefore are conjugate in the involution , NT .
Hence by means of the quadrilateral , we see that JS goes through ; and then goes through i.e. , through B. Thus the inflexional ngents to the Hessian are found .
A more convenient construction may be deduced ; from the identity there follows , by projection on to from and { BOTD } { QSDT } , i.e. , BQ , OS , DT are in iuvoIution .
Thus to find , let meet in ; then by means of the quadrilatera ] , we see that goes through B. 11 .
The points on the Cayleyan are its points of c.ontact with the conic polar of T. Now the tangent to the Hessian , i.e. , IP , is known to be the line polar of with regard to the cubic ; it is therefore the line polar of with ; .
regard to the conic polar of ; and consequently are harmonic with regard to foci of the involution TP , WH .
onjugate wegard tThus zonsidering , egard therefore projecting fonjugate p andarethereforeconjugatewith.regardtotheconic .
The constructions are therefore:\mdash ; ( t ) IK meets in meets in are the foci of OG , ( fig. 2 .
) MISS C. A. SCOTT ON PLANE CUBICS .
( 2 .
) meet in meets in .
; are the foci of OD , KK ' .
( 3 .
) meets in meets in goes through ( figs. 2 , 3 ) .
( 4 .
) meets in is the intersection of with goes through B. ( 5 .
) are the foci of , WH ( fig. 3 ) .
13 .
Now being the foci of the involution , WH , will be imaginary if lie in the segment WDH , otherwise real .
When is at is ; and as travels over WDH , travels in the opposite direction over TH .
Thus the Cayleyan is unipartite when is in the segment TH , otherwise it is bipartite .
Now when is i ( fig. 3 ) is in is therefore in ; and when is in TDH , is in , and is in .
Thus the Cayleyan changes from unipartite to and vice versed when the cusp passes through and ; but of these two , in the series here considered , corresponds to the case , which gives a degenerate oubic .
II .
Application to Special Cubics .
Figs. 4 , 5 .
14 .
The Harmonic Cubics.\mdash ; If the cubic be harmonic , let be the one of the three points on that is conjugate to , i.e. , let be harmonic with regard to Then since are harmonic with regard to now comes at T. In the general case are points in which meets a series of conic polars ; hence , being must be ; i.e. , for a harmonic cubic , the cusps of the Cayleyan are on the cubic .
Conversely , if come at must come at , and the cubic is harmo ic. Now in the case we are considering , the conic polar of goes through , hence the line polar of goes through ; i.e. , the inflexiona ] tangent to the Hessian goes through ; thus is at K. Conversely , if be at , i.e. , if the line polar of pass through , then the conic polar of passes through , thus at , and as before , the cubic is harmonic .
In the general case , are harmonic with regard to , and therefore in this case with regard to , i.e. , with regard to ; hence the Hessian is harmonic ; and as are harmonic with regard to , i.e , .
, with regard to , the Cayleyan , class-cubic , is also harmonic .
The question now is , where must be in order that the cubic may be harmonic .
When comes at coincides with , therefore is on is also on , since has to go through , likewise , since goes through .
But goes through , hence a must be at ; and since goes through and a must coincide at The pencils estimated on the line ( I ) are equal to and respectively ; but these are equal , and therefore ; hence must meet on the line , at ojecting { DWOK } from on to , it becomes , which by projection from I on to { KWOH } , therefore { DWOK } { HOWK } , therefore is self-conjugate in the involution , OW ; i.e. , for a harmonic cubic the point is a focus of HD , OW .
Hence there are two such cubics , with as in fi , giving a unipartite cubic ; one with between , giving a bipartite cubic .
These points are at once found in the symmetrical diagram ; for being at infinity , is the centre of the involution ; and since .
DO , we must have DK .
Thus the two positions of are as in figs. 8 , 12 .
15 .
The rmonic Cubics.\mdash ; In special cases three inflexional tangents may concurrent , this allowed by the class of the cubic being ; but not more than three .
Further , the three will be tangents at collinear inflexions ; for the line polar of the intersection of two inflexional tangents is the join of the inflexions , and thns if a third inflexional tangent pass through this point , the third inflexion must be the one that lies on this line .
We can certainly find a line of inflexions for which the tangents are not concu1Tent , and therefore if we disregard the distinction between real and imaginary , we can still use the symmetrical triangular diagram ; the three concurrent tangents cannot meet in ( for the polar lin of is the line ( I ) , which joins inflexions having non-concurrent tangents ) , therefore by triangular symmetry there must be three sets of concurrent tangents ; plainly if one of these be composed of the three real tangents , the other two must be composed of inary ones ; in the other possible arrangement , the sets are composed each of one real and two imaginary tangents .
Considering the two tangents that are concurrent with IT , we know that these two , being tangents at inflexions colline , with I , must meet on ; their intersection is therefore at T. Now the Hessian has to touch each of these inflexional tangents , in addition to cutting it at the inflexion ; passing through , it cannot meet the inflexional tangent again so as to touch it , consequently for every one of these three inflexional tangents the " " contact\ldquo ; has to be at ; there can therefore only be improper contact , i.e. , the Hessian must have a double point at , and similarly at and ; it is therefore composed of the three lines .
Now we know that the line polar of is the inflexional tangent to the Hessian at I ; and we have seen that , for the case we are considering , the line polar of is the line joining MISS , A. SCOTT ON PLANE CUBICS .
the inflexions whose tangents are concurrent in ; this line polar is therefore the tangent to the Hessian at each of the three inflexions , i.e. , it forms a part of the Hessian .
Thus the line joins three inflexions , and the tangents at these three inflexions pass through ; i.e. , the Hessian is composed of the three lines joining the inflexions whose tangents are concurrent .
Conversely , if the Hessian be composed of three straight lines , the inflexional tangents to the cubic ( if a proper cubic ) are concurrent in threes .
For these nine inflexional tangents have to " " touch\ldquo ; the Hessian ; they must therefore have improper contact , i. e. , they must pass through the three double points of the Hessian , and there being nine of them , three must go through each point T. Thus the two conditions , " " the inflexional tangents are concurrent in threes and " " the Hessian is three straight lines\ldquo ; are coextensive ; and there is plainly no need to exclude the degenerate cubics from this enunciation .
The two points now come at ; therefore are the foci of OD , ; i.e. , mus.t come at , and therefore the Cayleyan is composed of the three points T. For is at , therefore are the foci of an involution which degenerates into , WH , i.e. , they are at , and consequently double points and double tangents ( at W ) are introduced on the Cayleyan .
But it has already maximum number , and therefore it is now a degenerate curve .
Being a class-cubic , and preserving its triangular symmetry while degenerating so as still to pass through , it can only degenerate into these three points .
Conversely , if the Cayleyan split up into three points , since the cusps cannot disappear , and the points are in all cases points on the Cayleyan , we know that the three points are the points , and that the degeneration is brought about by the coincidence of with T. Now have been proved conjugate in OD , , hence in this case is a focus of OD , ; but are the foci of this involution , and therefore one of the two points , must come at ; and thus the Hessian has a double point at , and similarly at and The condition therefore that " " the Cayleyan splits up into three points\ldquo ; is equivalent to those already discussed .
We have now to show that if three inflexional tangents be concurrent , the cubic is equianharmonic .
Referring the diagram to the concurrent tangents , comes at at , and thus the construction requires modification .
In the general case and therefore in the present case , are conjugate poles on the Hessian , and are therefore conjugate with regard to any conic polar ; similarly for and for Thus the line ( I ) is the polar of with regard to every conic polar ; ?
are conjugate with regard to the conic polar of , and therefore with regard to ; thus is known .
Now { KGHO } by projection through ( fig. 5 ) ; 256 MISS C. A. SCOTT ON PLANE 0[IBICS .
and as are harmonic with regard to OH , X in the equation { KGHOK ' } must be such that may be harmonic with regard to ; i.e. , X must be therefore ; { KGOK ' } Now the foci of the involution OG , , are ; call the foci of ; from the relation just proved we have We wish to prove equianharmonic ; i.e. , we have to prove equianharmonic , for which it suffices to show Consider the IH invoIution , whose foci are .
From the way it is constructed ( viz. , three points I , their harmonic conjugates H ) , we know that any cross-ratio in the 's and 's is unaItered ( 1 ) by any interchange of the suffixes , ( 2 ) by the interchange of I and H. It is convenient to write 1 , 1 ' , for \amp ; c. We have to prove We know that , 12 , are harmonic with regard to 33 ' , and therefore in involution ; therefore . . . . .
( i ) .
Now { ll'xx ' } is harmonic , as also { 2'213 } ; applying these to ( i ) we have . . . . .
( ii ) .
Again , { 121'3 } is harmonic , as also ; applying these to ( ii ) we have , . . . . .
( iii ) .
hereforetherefore ( becomesi e ( iv ) .
( v ) , ( vi ) .
( vii ) .
i.e. , is equianharmonic , and therefore is equianharmonic ; i.e. , if three inflexiona ] tangents be concurrent , the cubic is equianharmonic .
in threes .
We know that is harmonic , and therefore in Conversely , if thecubicw be equianharmonic , the inflexional angents are concurrent : . . . . .
( viii ) , S and for this special case is and therefore . . . . .
( ix ) .
Now by ( viii ) and similar relations , ightwhere poBy means oMDCCCXCIV - ints comes at .
therefore the Hessian is three straight lines , and the inflexional tangents to cubic are concurrent in Now for an equianharmonic cubic , the three points are not differentiated as they are for a harmonic cubic ; therefore they cannot be found by linear and quadratic constructions .
But plainly they cannot all be real , and the cubic is therefore unipartite .
16 .
Other special might be considered , as for instance the one for which and coincide ; this coincidence is necessarily at , and thus the Hessian is equianharmonic .
In the general case , BQ , OS , DT are in invoIution , thus in this case OQ , OS , DT are in involution , and therefore comes at Q. Moreover , , the foci of , WH are now the foci of TO , WH , and are therefore real , giving a bipartite Cayleyan .
Again , the three cusps on the Cayleyan may be collinear , i.e. , may be at H. In this case is conjugate to in the invoIution OH , DT , and therefore comes at ; and are now the foci of OD , TH , and are therefore real ; thus the is bipartite .
In both these cases cannot be found by linear or quadratic constructions .
III .
in the Hessian the CUbic varies .
Figs. 6-13 .
17 .
The cubics just considered are of interest in studying the variation of the Hessian and Cayleyan as dependent on the variabion of the original cubic .
Figs. 6-13 exhibit this variation ; the cubic is represented by the heavy lines , the Hessian by the faint lines , and the Cayleyan is dotted .
For these figures the point was assigned , and the points determined by the constructions of S12 ; for figs. 7 and 11 the position of was determined by approximation and trial .
starts from , and describes the segment DHT , the segment TOD being described by the complementary for the bipartite cubic .
The inflexional triangle for the Hessian ( hg .
6 ) is at first turned the same way as that for the original cubic , but then by transition ( fig. 7 ) through the form for which the Hessian is equianharmonic , it turns the other way .
The icusp of the Cayleyan shrinks up , until the cusps , initially outside the oval of the cubic , are on the cubic ( fig. 8 ) , which is now harmonic , and accompanied by a unipartite harmonic Hessian .
The tricusp is now inside the oval , and both shrink up to the point , giving the acnodal cubic , with an acnodal Hessian , and a degenerate Cayleyan composed of the point and a conic , hich for the symmetrical diagram is the circle inscribed in the triangle At this stage all trace of the oval is lost , but the oval of the Hessian makes its appearance .
The tricusp of the Cayleyan cannot disappear , so it now expands from the point form , reversed in position ( fig. 9 ) as compared with its original form .
The cusp and the point approach together , and we have the equianharmonic cubic , IV .
Expression .
Fig. 14 .
18 .
In considering the appearance of the cubic and its derived curves , the equation discussed compared with form Professor CAYLEY , appears more convenlent than HESSE'S canonical form .
It postulates only three inflexlons , so excluding only the cuspidal form , and is therefore more comprehensive ; it ] ates .
only to elements all of which may be taken real , except for two special cubics , and is therefore convenient when diagrams are required .
The invariants for this form are that tents Onterch doint Kormed btangents cpproaching Oassing through indODH , then bnterchange oegment iangele distinction between remain fixed , heIn order twith trtite Lremain fixed , initi 1egments MISS C. A. SCOTT ON PLANE CUBICS .
and the " " numerical characteristic\ldquo ; The cubic is therefore bipartite or unipartite according as is positive or negative .
The is where \amp ; c. , therefore The inflexioIJal tangents to the Hessian are \amp ; c. ; these are concurrent if ; they coincide with \amp ; c. , i.e. , with \amp ; c. , if The Cayleyan is where 2 3- \amp ; c. , , therefore .
The cusps are \amp ; c. ; i.e. , they are at , \amp ; 0 .
; they are therefore collinear if ; and they are on the inflexional ngents to the Hessian if i. e. , if ; thus for the harmonic cubics When assumes the values 6 ( fig. 7 ) , ( fig. 8 ) , 9/ 2 , 4 , 3 ( fig. 11 ) , ( fig. 12 ) , the numerical aracteristic has the values 4/ 3 , 19 .
diagrams here given have been made by means of S12 ; but from the analytical expressions just quoted a graph can be constructed , by means of which these may be readily drawn , and the variation possibly more easily grasp \amp ; NfISS C. A. SCOTT ON PLANE CUBICS .
Arranging the coordinates so as to give actual distances , with for fundamental identical relation , we wish to determine the val.ious points on , i.e. , on ; we have therefore For the cubic , i.e. , . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) .
For , points on the Hessian , . . . . .
( 2 ) .
For , the cusp on the Cayleyan , ; therefore i.e. , ( 3 ) .
For , the intersection of inflexional tangents to the Hessian , ; therefore i.e. , ( 4 ) .
For , the intersection of with the inflexional tangent to the Hessian , i.e. , . . . . . .
( 4 ) .
For , points on the Cayleyan , most simply determined as the foci of , WH , . . . . .
( 5 ) .
By means of these six curves , all of which can easily be drawn with a considerable degree of accuracy , we have a diagram ( fig. 14 ) , in which for any arbitrarily chosen ordinate the abscissae*give the positions of all the points required in constructing the selected cubic , its Hessian , and its Cayleyan .
It will be noticed that the curves ( P ) and touch at ; that ( K ) , ( P ) , and ( S ) meet where and that ( P ) and ( B ) meet where , agreeing with the conclusions of SS14-16 .
* For the sake of distinctness , in fig. 14 the abscissa is measured on a scale three hmes that of the ordinate ADDED FEBRUARY 19 , 1894 .
[ It may be proper to give the point equation of the Cayleyan , the cubic being in the form here considered , The line equation of the Cayleyan is . . . .
, .
, ninating from this and we obtain a cubic equation in : where The discriminant of this , equated to zero , gives the reciprocaI to .
With the ordinary notation for the coefficients of the cubic equation , the result is which may be written Writing for their values , we have ; Substituting , and noticing that and that therefore a factor divides out , we have the reciprocal to in the form formation fnverse sstitution)writtento tansform toint cwhereSinceHere xoint coordinates ahereforeMISS CSCOTT OCUBICS .
Hence \amp ; .
and \amp ; c. ; By means of these , and the value of in terms of , the point equation of the Cayleyan is found t o writing iormwhich shows there intersectio.ines which 1educes teets tcurve o\ldquo ; The agreement of this with equations ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) of S 19 may be exhibited by

