378 Formaldehyde as an Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll Extracts .
By Charles Horne Warner , B.Sc. , F.I.C. ( Communicated by Prof. V. H. Blackman , F.R.S. Received February 3 , \#151 ; Read March 5 , 1914 .
) ' ( From the Department of Plant Physiology and Pathology , Imperial College of Science and Technology .
) Of recent years the action on carbon dioxide of chlorophyll vitro has assumed some importance as possibly throwing light on the nature of the photo-synthetic process of green plants .
Thus Usher and Priestley* have stated that films of extracted chlorophyll in the presence of moist air and carbon dioxide produce formaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide under the influence of light .
The earlier work of these authors has been adversely commented upon by several writers , notably by Ewart , f to whose criticisms Usher and Priestley have replied with a number of additional experiments and arguments , referring also to the work of Schryver subsequent to that of Ewart , as affording strong confirmation of their views as far as the synthesis of the aldehyde is concerned .
The facts set forth in the present paper came to light during an attempt to confirm and extend the observations of Usher and Priestley and of Schryver .
Grass was extracted with alcohol , usually in the cold and in the presence of calcium carbonate .
In some experiments the alcoholic liquid was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure and the residue extracted with ether ; in others a solution of chlorophyll in light petroleum was obtained by shaking the alcoholic solution with that liquid .
The method of experiment was based upon that described by Schryver , the ether or petroleum extract being allowed to evaporate on glass plates and exposed to light under the various conditions to be mentioned below .
As was the case in the later experiments of Usher and Priestley themselves , the test which has been relied upon for the detection of formaldehyde is the very delicate one devised by Schryver , who has found that the reaction is not given by such other members of the series as have been examined up to the present .
It has been assumed in the course of these experiments , as in the work of the investigators already mentioned , that the aldehyde produced is * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , p. 369 ( 1906 ) ; vol. 78 , p. 318 ( 1906 ) ; and vol. 84 , p. 101 ( 1911 ) .
+ Ibid. , vol. 80 , p. 30 ( 1908 ) .
f Ibid. , vol. 82 , p. 226 ( 1910 ) .
Formaldehyde an Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll Extracts .
379 formaldehyde , but it is very important that the possibility of the observed effects being due to some other aldehyde or to a mixture of aldehydes should be borne in mind .
This point still requires investigation .
The Production of Formaldehyde by Chlorophyll Extracts in Air .
In 14 experiments films of chlorophyll extract together with tubes of soda water were exposed to light in glass jars with well-fitting stoppers greased with vaseline .
The effect both of electric light ( eight experiments ) and sunlight ( six experiments ) was investigated .
In the former case the source consisted usually of one or two 32 c.p. filament lamps which were separated from the vessels containing the films by a glass tank , 2 inches thick , through which cold water flowed ; the exposures varied from 6 to 70 hours.* The films illuminated by sunlight were exposed outside a south window for periods ranging from two and a quarter hours of bright sunshine to seven days bright at intervals ( March 4-11 , 1913 ) .
Similar films were always exposed in jars containing tubes of potassium hydroxide solution .
These control films were allowed to stand in the dark in vacuo over lime for several days before being rapidly placed in the jars , and then for several more days over the potash solution before exposure to light .
In all the films a development of formaldehyde was observed , the solutions becoming very decidedly coloured in most instances when the test was applied .
In 10 of these experiments no difference could be detected between the amounts of aldehyde formed in the presence of carbon dioxide and in its absence .
In three there was a very slight excess in the films exposed to carbon dioxide as compared with the control films , but the difference was so small as to be barely perceptible , while in the remaining experiment slightly more aldehyde was found in the film which had not been exposed to carbon dioxide .
Subsequently three experiments were carried out with somewhat greater precautions , sealed glass tubes replacing the stoppered jars throughout .
The exposures varied from one to two and a half hours of bright summer sunshine , and in each case the production of formaldehyde was very evident .
In one instance it was impossible to distinguish between the amounts formed in the presence and absence of carbon dioxide , while in the other two there was slightly more formaldehyde produced in the films which had been exposed over potash solution .
In all of the 17 experiments control films were also examined which had remained in the dark for equal periods , * During the daytime these films received diffuse sunlight in addition to artificial light .
VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. 2 F Mr. C. H. Warner .
Formaldehyde as an and in no case was formaldehyde found in such a film whether carbon dioxide had been present or not .
In some , at least , of the experiments which yielded indications of the photo-synthesis of formaldehyde to previous investigators , either lime , soda-lime , or solid potash was used to obtain a control atmosphere free from carbon dioxide .
A number of additional experiments have been carried out under these conditions , which are , however , entirely unsatisfactory , since the effect of a moist atmosphere containing carbon dioxide is compared with that of dry carbon-dioxide-free air .
In a few of these experiments , particularly when short exposures to rather dull light were given , distinctly more formaldehyde was formed in the films exposed to carbon dioxide than in the controls ; in the remainder no appreciable difference was observed .
In order to further investigate the influence of moisture upon the production of formaldehyde , several experiments were performed in such a way that the effects of moist and dry carbon-dioxide-free air could be compared .
Films were exposed in pairs , one in air over potash solution , and the other in air over lime or soda-lime , a tube of concentrated sulphuric acid being present in addition in some cases .
In this series also it was noticed in some instances that the comparatively dry films contained distinctly less formaldehyde than the moist ones .
These experiments , taken as a whole , appear to show that , while there is no appreciable difference between the amounts produced by such chlorophyll films in moist air containing carbon dioxide and in similar air free from that gas ( such differences as have been observed being chiefly due , as shown by later experiments , to the air diluted by carbon dioxide causing less oxidation ) , the aldehyde is formed more readily in moist than in dry air .
It is evident that formaldehyde was being produced in these experiments as the result of photo-chemical decomposition of the films .
This is one of the points to which attention was drawn by Ewart ( .
tit .
) , who found that an aldehyde was formed by chlorophyll under the action of light both in air in which carbon dioxide was present and in that from which it was absent , nor could he observe any difference in colour intensity between the two cases when Schiffs reaction was applied .
In this connection Ewart relied chiefly upon observations on killed leaves , a method of experimentation very difficult to control ; in addition to chlorophyll , the number of substances present , some of which ( such as organic acids ) may give formaldehyde on exposure to light , is very large , much greater than in an ether or petroleum extract ; also , it is considerably more difficult to ensure freedom from carbon dioxide for control experiments in such leaf material than in the thin films obtained in the manner described .
Again , the rosaniline test , apart from its Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll Extracts .
comparative lack of sensitiveness and the fact that it cannot be used quantitatively , must be regarded as most unsatisfactory for work of this type even when applied with great care , since it has no specificity , and the escape of sulphur dioxide from the solution causes the appearance of the red colour in the absence of aldehyde .
Illumination of Films in an Atmosphere of Nitrogen .
It was next necessary to determine the nature of the decomposition described above , in order to eliminate it , and thus ascertain whether photosynthesis was taking place at the same time .
With this object in view , films in sealed glass tubes containing alkaline pyrogallate solution were exposed to bright sunlight for periods of one , one and a half , two , and two and a quarter hours , and to sunshine intermittently bright for periods of five and a half and twelve hours ( twice ) .
No trace of formaldehyde could be detected in any of these films after exposure .
In carbon-dioxide-free films which received equal exposures over potash solution , the amounts formed were always very considerable .
A tube containing recently boiled water and a film of chlorophyll extract was six times alternately exhausted and filled with nitrogen , which had been passed through potash solution and over copper heated to redness .
After the final filling the tube was sealed off and exposed to bright sunlight for two hours , and to diffuse sunlight for a further period of three hours .
On examining the film , again no trace of formaldehyde could be found , although the quantity which had been produced in a film similarly exposed over a solution of potassium hydroxide was most distinct .
Both films were allowed to stand in vacuo over soda-lime and pyrogallate solution in the dark for three days before being quickly introduced into the tubes , and the sealed vessels remained for four days more in the dark before exposure .
Illumination of Films in Carbon Dioxide free from Oxygen .
Four tubes containing freshly boiled water and chlorophyll extract films were six times alternately exhausted and filled with carbon dioxide freed from oxygen by means of red hot copper , and sealed off after the sixth filling .
The following exposures were given : ( a ) 12 hours of sunlight , bright at intervals ; ( b ) 11 hours of bright and 6 hours of diffuse sunlight ; ( c ) 25 hours of bright and 6 hours of diffuse sunlight ; and ( d ) 17 days of intermittent sunshine ( July 16 to August 2 , 1913 ) .
In no case was there any evidence that formaldehyde had been formed in the exposed films , although in each case control films , carefully freed from carbon dioxide and 382 Mr. C. H. Warner .
Formaldehyde as an exposed over potash solution under the same conditions , showed a very marked formation of the aldehyde .
Usher and Priestley* thermo-electrically determined the temperatures of two similar films of chlorophyll extract exposed to light , carbon dioxide being present in the surrounding atmosphere in one case and absent in the other .
They found that the temperature of the film in contact with carbon dioxide was the lower , a result which they regard as evidence that synthesis had taken place consequent on the absorption of energy by the film .
This result is in no way conclusive , and may be quite valueless , since , apart from the difficulties due to the conditions of the experiment , there is the fact that oxidation must have been proceeding in both cases , and the observed temperature difference was in all probability due to the excess of oxidation of the film in air as compared with that of the one in air diluted with carbon dioxide .
The greater proportion of oxygen in the air from which carbon dioxide was absent would certainly account for the observation that " the film in COg-free air was scorched and destroyed sooner than the other .
" The experiment should be repeated with nitrogen as an atmosphere for the control film .
The Bleaching of Chlorophyll .
Chlorophyll in air becomes bleached by light both in the presence and absence of carbon dioxide , and it has been found that formaldehyde has been produced whenever bleaching has occurred .
The bleaching was not more marked in moist air containing carbon dioxide than in air standing over a solution of potassium hydroxide , but when the effect of air containing appreciable quantities of water vapour was compared with that of an atmosphere relatively dry , it was found that the degree of decolorisation ( especially in the case of rather short exposures to comparatively dull light ) was somewhat greater under the moist conditions .
In all of the experiments previously mentioned in which films were exposed in tubes containing no oxygen , including the four for which oxygen-free carbon dioxide was used , no bleaching could be detected .
It will be observed that these results agree with those which were described when the production of formaldehyde was under consideration .
The Formation of Hydrogen Peroxide .
The observations of Usher and Priestley on the action of sheep 's liver catalase in preventing the bleaching of chlorophyll have been confirmed .
These observations point to the conclusion that the bleaching is due to the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 , p. 107 ( 1911 ) .
Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll .
oxidising action of hydrogen peroxide .
Less important evidence tending in the same direction has been obtained by treating films which have been exposed to light and air with potassium iodide , ferrous sulphate and acetic acid .
A small amount of iodine was slowly liberated , while films which had been kept in the dark when treated with the same reagents caused no liberation in an equal time .
A film which had been illuminated in a sealed tube containing moist oxygen-free carbon dioxide was not bleached and did not give the above reaction , although iodine was set free by a film similarly exposed in air over potash solution ; this film was very distinctly bleached .
It is , of course , not to be expected that such an unstable substance as hydrogen peroxide would accumulate in any quantity in these films .
There thus seems to be good ground for believing that the bleaching of chlorophyll in oxygen is due partially , if not entirely , to the action of hydrogen peroxide .
Since bleaching does not occur in oxygen-free carbon dioxide , however , there is no evidence that carbon dioxide plays any part in the formation of the peroxide , which substance is obviously produced through the agency of atmospheric oxygen .
The somewhat greater readiness with which bleaching takes place in moist air as compared with air which is relatively dry , is doubtless related to these facts , although it would seem that the change can be effected in the presence of only a very small amount of water .
Usher and Priestley* found that chlorophyll films in a carbon-dioxide-containing atmosphere which previously produced no effect on Beyerinck 's " luminous " bacteria , caused glowing after exposure ta light .
This does not by any means necessarily point , as these authors consider , to the decomposition of carbon dioxide with the formation of oxygen or hydrogen peroxide .
It is more probable that , although the gas did not originally contain sufficient oxygen to cause visible luminosity of the bacteria , sufficient was present to form hydrogen peroxide under the action of light , and the peroxide , according to Usher and Priestley , has more effect upon these organisms than oxygen.f The same criticism is applicable to Moliseh'sJ statement that assimilation can be carried out by chloroplasts from dried and apparently lifeless cells , and probably to other observations depending upon the use of bacteria also .
Since the production of formaldehyde always accompanies the disappearance of the green colour of chlorophyll in air , it is probable that in this bleaching * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 , p. 105 ( 1911 ) , t Usher and Priestley found that a certain amount of glowing was produced in the presence of catalase ; hence it may be argued that the effect is not due to the action of hydrogen peroxide formed in the manner here suggested .
It is practically impossible , however , that under the conditions of the experiment ( g'.v .
) the catalase could render the peroxide entirely ineffective .
t ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' vol. 62 , p. 1 ( 1904 ) .
Mr. C. H. Warner .
Formaldehyde as an process hydrogen peroxide oxidises chlorophyll with the formation of formaldehyde among other colourless products , and in support of this view it may be mentioned that the aldehyde is formed in the dark when films of chlorophyll extract are immersed in hydrogen peroxide solution .
Whether these transformations play any important part in the metabolism of the plant remains to be seen .
Possibly some group in the chlorophyll molecule suffers decomposition , thereby liberating formaldehyde , and is then regenerated under the action of carbon dioxide , but the occurrence in the tissues of catalases , which may partially or wholly prevent any such oxidation in the living leaf , must be borne in mind .
The observations of Bach and Chodat , * which appear to have escaped attention in this relation , to the effect that plants ( in their experiments , fungi ) are able to live in a medium containing 0*68 per cent , of hydrogen peroxide , may be found to have an important bearing upon the subject under discussion .
Experiments testing the possibility of the photo-synthesis of formaldehyde by colloidal chlorophyll in the presence of plant catalases and other enzymes , i.e. under conditions more nearly approaching those of assimilating tissues , might yield interesting results .
Films of Carotin Extract .
A few preliminary experiments have been carried out with films of carotin extract .
Carrots were extracted with hot alcohol and the liquid was shaken with light petroleum , the petroleum solution being then allowed to evaporate on glass plates .
When such films are exposed to air they become bleached both in the light and in the dark , f and formaldehyde is produced in both cases .
A carotin film exposed to light in a sealed tube containing moist carbon dioxide free from oxygen was not bleached and showed no evidence of formaldehyde development , while a similar film exposed over potash solution beside the first for the same time became completely bleached and gave a decided reaction for the aldehyde .
Experiments are now being arranged by means of which it is hoped that the formation of hydrogen peroxide by chlorophyll and possibly by carotin and other similar substances , and their derivatives , may be more or less quantitatively investigated .
Thus far the experiments have been confined to crude chlorophyll- and * ' Biochem. Centralblat .
, ' vol. 1 , p. 417 ( 1903 ) .
t Compare Willetatter and Escher , 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 64 , p. 47 ( 1910 ) .
Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll .
carotin-containing extracts prepared as described ; it is intended shortly to investigate similarly the behaviour in this relation of the isolated leaf pigments and some of their derivatives .
This is especially important in view of the very recent work of Spoehr , * who has shown that various acids which occur in the leaves of succulent plants may be decomposed by light , yielding formaldehyde .
A decomposition such as this would well account for the formaldehyde which Kimpflinf found in the leaves of Agave mexicana .
Again , NeubergJ has shown that a number of substances , under the action of light and in the presence of an optical sensitiser , form this aldehyde ; indeed it is probable that there are in the plant many substances which under suitable conditions can give rise to formaldehyde or to hydrogen peroxide .
Summary .
1 .
The photo-chemical development of formaldehyde , which has been observed to occur in films of chlorophyll extract in contact with air containing carbon dioxide and water vapour , is due solely to the decomposition of the films under the action of the oxygen of the air .
No formaldehyde is produced when such films are illuminated in a moist atmosphere of nitrogen or of carbon dioxide .
There is thus at present no evidence for the photo-synthesis of the aldehyde from carbon dioxide by chlorophyll outside the plant .
2 .
The above oxidation is accompanied by the bleaching of the films , and appears to be effected by the action of hydrogen peroxide , in the formation of which carbon dioxide can have no share , since there is no decolorisation in moist carbon dioxide free from oxygen .
3 .
The bleaching ( oxidation ) of films of carotin extract is also associated with the production of formaldehyde .
Since the experiments are being continued along the lines indicated , a full discussion of the results obtained is for the present deferred .
In conclusion , the author wishes to express his indebtedness to Prof. V. H. Blackman , at whose suggestion this work was undertaken , for his very valuable help throughout the course of the research .
* ' Biochem. Zeitschr .
, ' vol. 57 , p. 95 ( 1913 ) .
+ ' Comptes Bendus , ' vol. 150 , p. 529 ( 1910 ) .
J 'Biochem .
Zeitschr .
, ' vol. 13 , p. 305 ( 1908 ) .

