]\gt ; 'Studies of the Processes in .
Part Tloe Action of Acids as influenced by Salts By JOHN CALDWELL , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , , Leathersellers ' Company 's Research Fellow , Chemical Department , City and Guilds of London Institute , Central Technical College .
Communicated by Professor H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received and read .June 14 , 1906 .
) [ International Catalogue of Scientific Literatu ' title slip:\mdash ; C. D. Subject slips : \mdash ; 0310 of Sugar in 1ehtio to .
6240 of Acids in presence of Glucose , etc. 1820 Cane Sugar , hydrolysis of .
7090 Hydrolysis ) Acids as affected Salts .
7155 Hydrolysis of Suga ] in relation to .
Conductivity of Acids in presence of Glucose , etc. 1424 Hydrolysis of Cane Sugar by Acids .
] The investigation of which the results now recorded is an extension of that undertaken in conjunction with .
Frankland in which the sucroclastic action of acids was contrasted with that of enzymes ; it forms a necessary part of a larger inquiry which is being carried out at the Central Technical College in the hope determining the precise nature of enzyme action and of hydrolytic change generally .
Evidence was advanced* that the processes must 1oe regarded as similar , notwithstanding the extraordinary difference in activity manifest on comparing the two classes of hydrolytic agents , except that and in so far as third substances produce somewhat different effects , the rate of modified in the case of enzymes only by substances which act selecCively , whilst in the case of flcids the added substance appeared to exercise an influence which might be regarded as a concentration effect .
It is now obvious , however , that a fallacy underlay our conclusion in so far as the action of acids is concerned and that a like fallacy more or less affects , if it do not invalidate , the conclusions of previous workers in similar fields .
It will be clear that to determine the influence of any added substance , this should be made the only riable at first : point of fact , a second variable\mdash ; the mount of water \mdash ; has been introduced .
' Boy .
Soc. Proc 1904 , vol. 73 , p. 526 ; vol. 74 , p. 195 .
, vol. 73 , p. 51 Studies of the ocesses OSolutio Solutions have been prepared , as a rule , by dissolving the various substances to produce a iven volume of solution : the result that water has been displaced in introducing the third substance .
Morse and Frazer appear to have been the first to call attention to the consequences of this practice , in the comprehensive account of their observations on " " The Osmotic Pressure and Freezing Points of Solutions of Cane published in the July number , 1905 , of the 'American Chemical Journal .
' * They have shown , at least in the case of cane , that the normal standard volume for osmotic pressure is not that of a gramme-molecular proportion of substance dissolyed in water to a volume of 1 litre ; the true standard , instead of being such a volume- normal solution , is the ] -normal solution ( as they term it ) obtained by dissolving a -molecular proportion of the substance in 1 litre of water ; such a solution exercises an osmotic approximately equal to the pressure exerted by a } -molecular proportion of reduced to llitre .
The need of intaining the proportions of water and acid as wcll as that of the hydrolyte constant hout the experiments , so amount of the odd bstcmce sbe , was contemplated at the outset of this inquiry ; indeed it was lmdertaken from this point of view at Professor Armstrong 's request , before my attention had directed to Morse and Frazer 's communication The experiments now described have shown that cane itself and several other carbohydrates have a relatively small although distinct effect ; alcohol , however , has a marked inhibiting effect\mdash ; probably because it enters into competition with the water and withdraws hydrogen chloride from it ; glycerol occupies an intermediate position between alcohol and the carbohydrates : in othel words , non-electrolytes , pp. 28\mdash ; 91 .
In discussing the influence of concentration of the hydrolyte on the rate at which milk sugar is hydrolysed ( Armstrong and Caldwell , op .
cit. , p. 531 ) , results were quoted to volume-normal solutions containing 9 , 18 and 27 grammes of lactose in 100 .
Such solutions contain very different amounts of water , viz. :\mdash ; 9 grammes lactose .
rammes water .
, , The great increase observed in the rate of change is to be attributed mainly to displacement of water ; on reference to Table I it will be seen that the corresponding volume-nolmal solutions of cane sugar contain a larger proportion of water ; the greater influence of concentration on the rate at which milk undergoes hydrolysis in comparison with cane sugar , referred to in the paper under consideration ( p. 631 ) , is probably more apparent than real , but subject is oue which needs further experimental investigation .
VOL. LXXVIIL\mdash ; A. Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
have comparatively little influence in promoting hydrolysis .
The weak electrolyte acetic acid also has but little influence .
Metallic salts accelerale the rate of , the influence of those derived from monad metals already considerable and of salts derived from dyads at least twice as great ; it will be contended that their activity is due to their dehydratin intiuence .
The literature relating to action of acids on cane sugar is extraordinarily voluminous , at least 140 papers having been published which bear on the subject .
As the writer is in for the Briti , sh Association a report the work which has been done , it will be unnecessary to consider st length the uments which have been advanced .
Ostwald , besides out a selies of observations on ) action of a variety of acids on cane sugar , which led him to conclude that the activity of the several acids was of the same order as that established by other methods , especially by the determination of their electrical conductivity , also made a few experiments on the influence of the concentration of ) on the rate of hydrolysis .
The results he obtained led him to infer , in the case of chlorhydric acid , that the amount of hydrolysed in unit time increased rapidly , out of all proportion to the increase in the concent1ation of the sugar .
On concentration of the acid , maintaining that of the constant , he noticed a similal lack of proportionality between the rate of inversion and the amount of acid present , the acid being less active in dilute than in strong solution : according to his method of the case , ] ereas the molecular conductivity of the acid diminishes its concentration is increased , its molecular sucroclastic activity increases as it is increased ] concentration .
Ostwald was inclined to attribute the lack of parallelism to secondary effects , especially to the influence of the sugal , which became greater the bhe proportion of sugar present relatively to acid .
Water was left out of account .
In his memoir on the velocity of the inversion of cane by acidq , published in 1889 , Arrhenius introduced the conception of an active moss and attributed the inyertive power of acids to the free hydrogen ions ; this conclusion has been somewhat fully considered in the paper by .
Armstrong and Caldwell , in which also reference was made to his later views published in 1899 .
It is noteworthy that in his ' Allgemeine Chemie published in 1889 , Ostwald expressed the opinion that an acid inverts sugar because of the predisposing affinity of the acid for the alcoholic hydroxyls of the dextrose and levulose produced fronn the cane sugar .
He appears , however , to have been at once converted by Arrhenius .
In 1897 it was contended by Cohen that the great increase in velocity in lave comparatively little influence in promoting hydrolysis .
The weak electrolyte acetic acid also has but little influence .
Metallic salts accelerale the rate of , the influence of those derived from monad metals lilready considerable and of salts derived from dyads at least twice as great ; it will be contended that their activity is due to their dehydratin inliuence .
The literatnre relating to action of acids on cane sugar is extraordinarily voluminous , at least 140 papers having been published which bear on the subject .
As the writer is in for the Briti , Association a report work which has been done , it will be unnecessary to consider st length the uments which have been advanced .
Ostwald , besides out a selies of observations on ) action of a variety of acids on cane , which led him to conclude that the activity of the several acids was of the same order as ) established by other methods , especially by the detcrminabion of their electx.ical conductivity , also made a few e , xperiments on the influenc of the concentration of ) on the rate of hydrolysis .
The results he obtained led him to infet in the case of chlorhydric acid , that the amount of hydrolysed in unit time increased rapidly , out of all proportion to the increase in the concent1ation of the sugar .
On ) concentration of the acid , maintaining that of the constant , he noticed a similal lack of proportionality between the rate of inversion and the amount of acid present , the acid being less active in dilute than in strong solution : according to his method of the case , ] ereas the molecnlar conductivity of the acid diminishes its concentration is increased , its molecular sucroclastic activity increases as it is increased ] centration .
Ostwald was inclined to attribute the lack of parallelism to secondary effects , especially to the influence of the sugal , which became ' the bhe proportion of sugar present relatively to acid .
Water was left out of account .
In his memoir on the velocity of the inversion of cane by acidq , published in 1889 , Arrhenius introduced the conception of an active moss and aftributed the invertive power of acids to the free ions ; this conclusion has been somewhat fully considered in the paper by .
Armstrong and Caldwell , in which also reference was made to his later views published in 1899 .
It is noteworthy that in his ' Allgemeine Chemie published in 1889 , Ostwald expressed the opinion that an acid inverts sugar because of the predisposing affinity of the acid for the alcoholic hydroxyls of the dextrose and levulose produced the cane sugar .
He appears , however , to have been at once converted by Arrhenius .
In 1897 it was contended by Cohen that the great increase in velocity in 1906 .
] Studies the ocesses Operative more concentrated solutions be explained by assnming th , as in the case of gases , the space occupied by the molecules would be of consequence ; he supposed the rate of in version to be inversely proportional to the space at the disposal of the molecules .
In all cases , the method of treatment adopted by previous workers has been influenced , in the first place , by the prevailing practice of with volume-normal solutions in laboratory work ; and subsequently by the conception introduced by Va n't Hoff that the state of the molecules of a substance in solution may be arded as analogous to that of .
the molecules in a gas ; the fact that as the Yried the proportion of watjr present is also baried .
No attempt has been made to evaluate the chemical iIlfluence of the omitted water .
The extent to which the two methods of treatment different results will be at once apparent on reference to the upper half of the representing the results which I have obtained in a series of experiments\mdash ; carried out in the llanner described towards the close of this paper\mdash ; which are summarised in Tables I , TI and III .
When sugar and are dissolved yether in water to a constant volume , solutions are obtained which undergo inversion at a rapidly rate the more concentrated they are , the rate being an tely linear function of the concentration ( Equation 1 , p. 288 ) .
When -normal solutions are used , no such rapid acceleration is obseryed , the rate but reater in concentrated solutions as compared with dilute solutions .
In the former case , the weight of watel ' present diminishes rapidly as that of the i , s increased , practically following a linear law ( Equation 2 ) : the proportion of water , therefore , is varied both with reference to the and to the acid .
In the latter case , apart from changes in the bulk of the solution , only the sugar is varied , water and acid remaining constant .
No useful conclusion as to the natul.e of the processes operative in concentrated solutions can be drawn from the experiments carried out with volume-normal solutions until the results are reduced to weight-normal The results of a series of determinations of the electrical conductivity ( molecular ) of chloride in presence of amounts of glucose are recorded in Tables and ; the results when 1 gramme-nloleculal ortion of hydrogen chloride was present are also represented in the lower half of the Diagram .
It will be seen that the difference is but small , due to the use , on the one hand of volume-normal solutions , on the other of normal solutions ; but this arises from the fact that the molecular con- ductivity of hydrogen chloride changes only to a slight extent on dilution .
It should perhaps be pointed out that lucose was used in these OF DIAGRAM .
The value obtained ( 490 , Table III ) by exte1polating the volume-normal curve on the assumption that the rate is a linear function of the concentration is , doubtless , somewb low : hence the irregular character of the curve .
If the more probable value deduced from weight-normal solutions be taken as the origin ( 498 ) , the curve becomes less irregular , as in curve of the Processes ) .
277 in place of cane sugar ( cf. p. 280 ) , as being its practical equivalent , in order to avoid the complications introduced by the attending inversion .
The fact that the effect of the amount of the is to increase the invertive power of the acid whilst it diminishes its conductivity is a strong argument against the application of the hypothesis to hydrolysis , especially when taken in conjunction with the argument previously published in contrasting the hydrolytic activity of acids with that of enzymes .
The results of experiments which I have made to ascertain the influence of added substances on the rate of hydrolysis of cane by an aqueous solution of chlorhydric acid are summarised in Table .
The substances used were as follows:\mdash ; Lactose , Glucose , Glycerol , Alcohol , Potassium chloride , Amlnonium chloride , Barium chloride , Calcium chloride , Sodium chloride , Acetic acid .
It will be seen that all these substances , excepting alcohol , have a more or less marked effect when used in volume-normal solutions , under conditions , that is to say , which involve more or less water displaced by the added substance ; when solutions are used , ylucose and lactose appear to have practically no effect , whilst lycerol and alcohol retard the change , all the remaining substances it .
In view of the reneral character of the effect produced by salts , bearing in mind also that easily soluble , roscopic salts , such as calcium a far greater influence than sodium chloride , for example , it appears justifiable to regard the acceleration as a concentration ct due to the withdrawal by the dissolved substan ce of a certain proportion of the water molecules , which thus become removed from the sphere of action of the acid .
To evaluate this effect I have determined the number of gramme-molecules of water which must be used in addition to the 1000 grammes originally taken , in order that the rate of change may be that characteristic of the solution prior to the addition of the " " neutral\ldquo ; substance .
These values are iven in the last column of Table and are printed in thick type .
The explanations iven by previous observers of the produced by added substances on the hydrolytic activity of acids have been of a varied character , but with scarcely an exception unsatisfactory and wholly biased by ionic conceptions .
Arrhenius*uniformly resorts to his idea of an " " active part which is either reduced or increased in amount to suit the conditions of the problem .
Lowenthal and Lenssen , who were the first to notice the accelerating effect of salts , attributed their action to the fixation of water and the consequent concentration of acid : hitherto , no one has accepted this explanation .
' Zeits .
Phys. Chem 1889 .
vol. 4 , p. 226 ; 1899 , vol. 28 , p. 31 ' Journ. Prakt .
Chem 1862 ( i ) , vol. , pp. 321 and 401 .
Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
from apoint onzyme action Iirst.ement mprevious pvery s place , it may be assumed that acve is formed by combination of part of the sugar with part of the acid\mdash ; and as the water molecules in the solution are attracting both sugar and acid molecules , that there is , so to speak , competition between the water and the sugar for the acid ; there will be , therefore , at any iven temperature , an equilibrium between water , sugar and acid , depending on the relative proportions of these three constituents ; a in any one of them will necessarily also change the position of the equilibrium and therefore also the tion of the combination of acid and present lnflujnce of Conctration on theHdolysis of .\mdash ; If the change be of this kind , in order to explain the radual increase in the rate at which the cane sugar is hydrolysed as the solution is concentrated , it is necessary to consider the influence which an increase in the number of molecules of sugar present exercise .
From the point of view of the increased opportunity afforded to the acid , the rate of should be propoltional to the of sugar present ; but if it be supposed the sugar or indeed any substance present in the water is to some extent associated with the solvent , increase in the amount of dissolved substance must involve a corresponding incl.ease in the concentration of the substances the and therefore increase the rate of hydrolysis .
Actually , this is what occurs .
The obscrwed increase in the rate cannot , however , be arded as the absolute measure of the extent of the influence of the sugar , as some portion of the latter may be present an associated and , therefore , probably less active , if not inert , form .
In view of the presumed connection between osmotic pressure and rate of change , it may be pointed out here the osmotic pressures .
Soc. Proc 1904 , vol. 73 , ) it is probable that the molecules not all equally hydrated in solutior , the molecules themselves be ated in a more concentrated solution : it may be that the less ydrated o anhydrous the more opeIJ to attack by the acid .
this assumption nccou1lt for the effect of ssures on the inversion velocity , which effect has hitherto iled to receive a explanation .
Rontgen ( ' Wied .
Ann 1892 , vol. 45 , p. 98 ) , Stern Phys. and Rothmuud Zeits .
Phys. Chem have independently recorded the fact that a high pressure decreases the inversion velocity to the extent of 1 per cent. per 100 atmospheres , although both the tion and the " " ionic mobility \ldquo ; are incleased .
It lllay well be that the degree of hyd1ation of tlJe sugal is increased by pressure and that under a high pressure the sugar , being more highly hydrated , woudd be less open to attack and the inversion slowel in consequence .
1906 .
] of the ocesses Operatire in Solutions .
279 determined by lIorse and in -normal solutions of cane do not differ appreciably from the calculated values , the results Lord Berkeley Mr. Hartleyj have brought before the Society recently , calculated on a similar basis , appear to be somewhat above the calculated values , especially in the case of the more concentrated solutions .
My observations appear to afford considerable support to the results arrived at by the obseryers .
On the other hand , taken in tion with my results , the at which they have may be held to elevate the assumption that the molecules are hydrated almost to the level of certainty .
Influ ( of single molecular proportion of alcohol per litre , in a volume-normal solution , is without influence ; smuch , however , as it displaces almost its own volume of water in the solution , it must be held to have a considerable retardilJg effect .
That this is the case is seen on reference to the result obtained in weight-normal solution , the yalue being reduced from to Using larger proportions of alcohol , previous have noticed a effect eveu in volume-normal solutions ; the explanations which have been offered of its influence are in no way satisfactory .
In certain cases alcohol has been shown to ] ] efiect , as in the formation of urea from amlnonium cyanate .
Alcohol may be pictured as acting in at least Iechnnically , by its interposition between the acting substances ; ( 2 ) as a such as ) esugal'S exercise by combining ith water ; as entering into association with the ctive aoent , chloride , an " " alcoholate Of these ( 1 ) and ) ) would be untavourable , whilst ( 2 ) would the .
There is every reason to } ) that all three influences are and that the c of alcohol is more than by the extent to which it interfer echanically and ( probably ) more especially by the formation of Influence of Glyccrol.\mdash ; Although ) arol ) , in volume-normal solution , glycerol has a sli , bt influence , the effect is more than cconnted for by the amount of water which it displaces .
Considered the standpoint , i.e. , in weight-normal soJutions , it has distinct which is less , however , than that of alcohol .
The arguments ' Amer .
Chem. Journ 1905 , vol. 34 , p. 1 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1906 , A. vol. 77 , ) Compare Kblukow R Zaccoui , .
Russ .
iSoc 1891 , vol. ) ; Wakeman , ' Zeits .
Phys. 189.3 , vol. 11 , p. 49 ; Cohen , ) , 1 : henius , ibid. , 1899 , vol. 28 , p. 317 .
Walker and Kay , ' Chem. Soc. , p. 489 .
Mr. R. J. used in respect of alcohol are also applicable to glycerol ; it may fain be supposed that the retardation is mainly due to a withdrawal of some part of the chloride in loose combination with the alcohol .
The readiness with which lycerol is attacked acids is in harmony with this explanation .
of Glucosc.\mdash ; A series of experiments , the results of which are not quoted , showed that in volume-nornlal solution the effect of a single grammellole , cular proportion of the allied substances glucose , galactose and mannitol is practically identical .
Moreover , glucose can be substituted for cane sugar almost weight for in volume-normal solutions without sensible change in the rate at which the cane is hydrolysed , whatever the proportions present .
But inasmuch as glucose displaces slightly more water than cane sugar the results obtained with weight-normal solutions are slightly lower in presence of glucose .
Thus , the constant is lowered from 521 , the yiven by a gramme-molecular proportion of cane , to 518 by substituting for half the cane a gramme-molecule of ] ncose .
that the glucose must echanically , the glucose must be supposed to be at least as hydrftted as the pproximately equal weight of cane sugar .
There is ) to it will differ much from the cane sugar in its affinity for the It is very noteworthy that in all }xses the constant has practically the same value throughout the course of an experi1nent ( vide Tables X and XI ) .
Hence it follows that whatever take place in the solution the influence exercised the products of change must be almost exactly equal to that exercised by the sugar inally 1 which undergoes hydrolysis in accordance with the equation:\mdash ; Glucose .
uctose .
It is that the argument already used with reference to glucose will apply equally well to fructose ; and as the two molecules of hexose are even superior in power to a tJle molecule of cane sugar , it would seem to follow that most , if not all , of the oxygen atoms exercise an influence on water molecules .
in mind the complex nature of the influences at work , it is altogether remarkable that the simple monomolecular law should be found to hold throughout ; *this result may to show how very necessary it is to exercise caution in judging from apparently simple results as to the true nature of the phenomella .
It ulay be expected that more concentrated solutions will results showing in velocity as the hydrolysis proceeds , owing to the fact that the proportion of water which Vide Mellor and Bradshaw , ' Zeits .
Phys. Chem 1904 , vol. 48 , p. 363 .
1906 .
] Studies of Processes Opercl:tive .
281 enters into combination will be a sufficiently impol.tant fraction of the total water present to illfluence the rate .
Experiments to test this conclusion are in progress .
of liactos volume-normal solution the addition of half a molecular proportion of lacboseto the same amount of cane sugar , although it gives rise to the displacement of slightly more water , has actually less effect than the cane ; in other words , lactose is less effective as a dehydrating than cane .
This conclusion is in harmony with the recognised character of the substance , especially its moderate solubility , which may be regarded as an indication of a tendency to relatively inert , associated molecules .
In -normal solutions it is apparently without effect ; in other words , it exercises a dehydrating influence which is only sufficient to balance the small reduction in activity brought about by its mechanical interference .
of Acctic Acid.\mdash ; As this acid has no hydrolytic effect on cane ( far in ) arison with the effect of chlorh.ydric acid , it is possible to determine its influence as a " " neutral\ldquo ; substance .
It will be seen that it exercises a effect to the of a single molecule of water by each molecule of acetic acid .
This is entirely in accordance with its known behaviour as veak dehydrant .
of Satts.\mdash ; Salts have uniformly a effect ; the addition of a molecular proportion of calcium chloride to a volume-nol.mal solution more than doubles the rate of To determine the " " degree of hydration\ldquo ; of the salt , the to hich it was necessary to dilute the weight-nol.nlal solutions in order to reduce the yalue of the constant to 510\mdash ; the value\mdash ; was determined in each case .
The values arrived at are as These values are necessarily solnewhat low , no allowance can made .
the interference of the salt .
They are clearly rational values , however ; moreover , they are in accordance with estimates arrived at in other ways .
The results obtained by H. C. Jones his oues , con* No exception to the use of lactose in this connection can be taken on the ground it would be attacked ) ' the acid and thus give rise to lnplications .
Under conditions of the experiments , no appreciable hydrolysis of lactose occurs during 24 hours .
Vide ' Boy .
Soc. ' 1904 , vol. , p. 530 .
) 'Amer .
Chem. .
1904 , vol. 32 , p. 310 : , vo ] .
33 , ] ) .
) ; 1906 , vol. 35 , p. 445 .
Mr. R. J. Caldwel ] .
[ June of the values now arrived ac in the case or calcium chloride and ] probably also of barium chloride , are not in harmony with them in respect of other substances .
literature on the subject is so voluminous that it cannot be ssed in an adequate manner on the present occasion ; but it may be pointed out that the method described in this communication is one which involves only the consideration of the effect produced on the cane , whereby a measure is se , cured ( in the case of salts ) of the concentration effect from which the average degree of hydration of the salt is inferred without reference to the condition of this salt in solution .
The method of calculation adopted by H. C. Jones , however , is one which does not in itself permit of any line drawn between produced on the one hand by hydration and on the other by polymerisatio1l .
From this point of view , it may noticed on comparing the of hydration of osium and sodium chlorides and of barium and calcium chloYides that the more soluble salt of each .
is ydrated .
It is probable that in most cases the less soluble salt is present iu solution to the greater extent in a polynlerised form .
It is scarcely necessary to add that the in Table apply only to the particular of conccntration which was studied .
It may be expected that in more dilute solutions the " " of hydration\ldquo ; would be greater , whilst in more concentrated solutions it be less .
limits of variation in the of sodium chloride are relatively small , as showu in Table VIII , in which is iven the average of molecular hydration in solutions ) to 5 -molecular proportions of salt .
ionductivit / tes .
The equations given in Table IX represent results obtained in a series of experiments which were made with the object of ascertain ing the influence of various carbohydrates on the electrolytic conductivity of solutions of hydrogen chloride and of sulphuric acid , with a view of ascertainin what way the condition of the acid be influenced .
The effect is in all cases of the same order , equal weights practically the same effect in the conductivity .
Down to the } ) roportional influence of the dissolved substance is independent of ) concentration of the aoid ; at high dilntions as shown in Tables XT1 to , the added stance produces a greater proportionate effect thau in the more concentrated solutions .
In all probability the effect of the added snbstance is mainly mechauical 1906 .
] Studies of the Processes in the more dilute solutions , however , the non-electrolyte apparently has a distinct dehydrating effect on the acid .
Experiments are carried out to determine the influence of chlorides on the conductiviby of hydrogen chloride , in ' order to ascertain whether their influence may not also be regarded in the light of the view put forward in this communication .
This is the more desirable , inasmuch as it is clear that the influence of salts on the hydrolysis of cane by acids is incompatible with the view which is commonly held that a neutral salt dimiuishes the extent to which the acid undel ' oes electrolytic dissociation in solution .
\mdash ; An approximately twice normal solnCion of pure hydrogen chloride was used , which was standardised by tit , ration balyta against a solution prepared by Moody 's absolute method ; the conductivity of the acid was determined from time to time in order to ascertain whether any alteration had taken place .
A measurements were made with sulphuric acid which had been standardised by lIarshall 's method .
The purest obtainable cvalised crystals cane were used ; this matel.ial did not reduce 's solution .
The milk sugar was crystallised from per cent. the of a solution containing -molecule of the dissolved in one litre of water was reciprocal ohms .
's purified glucose , mannitol were used ; these 11 ere all by the conductivity method .
In determiuing the of these ates , a difliculty arises from the fact that , in presence of the platinum black of the electrodes , they are slowly products which are better electrolytes .
It was , thel'efore , necessary to determine the conductivity at different intervals of time and to exterpolate , to determine the conductiyity at the moment of putting the solution into the meastlrino cell .
The conductivity of solutions of one gramme molecular proportion of each in a litre of solution determined in this manner was , in the of glucose , eciprocal ohms , in that of mannitol and in that of galactose reciprocal ohms .
On account of the high conductivity , it was susl ) ected that galactose contained some alL-aline impurity , especially as it was found to produce an diminution in the conductivity of hydrochloric acid .
To purify it , 80 ammes were dissolved in 60 .
of wa.ter by the ; 'Chem .
Soc. Trans 1898 , vol. 73 , p. 'Soc .
Chem. Ind 1899 , vol. 18 , p. 4 .
Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
200 .
of methyl alcohol were theu added tu the cooled solution , and carbon dioxide was bubbled into the liquid , which was subsequently filtered and allowed to stallise ; the latter occupied a considerable time .
The galactose was washed with methyl .
alcohol and dried during two weeks vacuo over potash .
In this manner the conductivity of the gramme-molecular solution was reduced to reciprocal ohms .
The salts used were ecrystallised until neutral , excepting the calcium chloride , which contained a little free alkali ; this salt was always carefully neutralised with the predetermined amount of centinormal chlorhydric acid before starting the inversion .
temperature for the inversion of cane sugar is so that it is important that the temperature should be very carefully yulated .
The inversion experiments were carried out in a polarimeter tube which was maintained at by a stream of water from a thermostat .
The al.rangements are depicted in fig. 1 .
Water taken from a low-pressure main at a temperature varying between and was passed through a condenser A in which it was warmed by the waste water returning from the polarimeter tube .
Ihence it passed to the bottom of the funnel-shaped vessel , made of sheet copper , which contained a rough toluene thermo- 1906 .
] tudies of the Pr.ocesses Operative in Solutions .
ulator in connection with a bunsen flame beneath the vessel ; the stream of water was heated to an approximately constallt temperature of in this vessel .
It then passed into the bottom of the cylindrical vessel , also made of sheet copper and flanged at the bottom this vessel is almost filled by a sensitive toluene thermo-regulator with fluted sides ; a small flame beneath the vessel in connection with the regulator served to heat the stream of water to a constant temperature of .
The water thus heated passed through the small chamber containing a sensitive thernlometer and thence directly into the jacket of the polarimeter tnbe .
The temperature of the waste water was also read in E. When the polarimeter tube was removed , the stream of water could be diverted through the tube F. In order to reduce the loss of heat to a minimum , the vessels and and also the polarimeter tube were packed roumd with felt .
The whole apparatus was placed in a room kept at a constant temperature of ( at the level of the polarimeter ) by means of a stove controlled by a large thermo-regulator shaped like a gridiron and with saturated solution of calcium The temperature of the liqmd in the polalimeter tube was found to oscillate C. on each side of the mean temperature , C. , in regular periods of about minutes .
In experiments which extend ovel an hour , this small variation is of no importance .
The drop in temperature of the stream whilst passing the jacket was ible .
The conductivities were determined in a large thermostat maintained at C. by means of the spiral toluene thermo-regulator described by It was found to be of to use a gas-pressure ulator with the former thermostat ; a very simple and satisfactory device for this purpose is shown in fig. 2 .
The gas is introduced from the main by tube and passes over the surface of the mercury in the cup , which is firnJly fixed to the inner bell-jar by a glass rod ; this rod is continued upwards and slides in the fixed tnbe , which serves as uide for the floating bell-jar .
The pressure of the gas escaping through is that given by the difference in level between the water inside and outside the floating jar and is arranged to be less than the minimum pressure of the in the mains .
When this regulator is at work the inner bell-jar is in a state of continuous vibl.cttion .
: the gas is therefore passed into a Winchester quart hot , the which serves as a buffer ; it escapes as a stream of gas at the steady constant pressure indicated by the gauge glass Mcthod of the Inversion )\mdash ; The exact quantity of required together with any additional substance was out each experiment .
The solids were then carefully transferred to a 50-c.c .
Chenl .
Soc. ) , , p. 1030 .
286 Mr. R. J. standard flask with water of low lctil polarimeter tube at C. and allowed a temperature of the thermostat before were then in all , in each expe : after the first and the final reading af rotation had reached its minimum .
La mean of five readings taken at minute side of the mean time .
The 65 hydroly over olarimeter readi .
er ] each experiment is certainly very small to Tables X and , which are entirely in each separate experiment ; on this acco to reproduce more than four complete sets of the actual course of the riments .
not in close accordance , the discrepallC ifferences in the preparation of the letermination of the velocity .
1906 .
] Studies of the Processes Solutions .
287 .
\mdash ; The measurements of conductivity recorded in Tables , XIII , and were Dlade in a -tube resistance cell of the ordinary type , ?
the usch wheel bridge , inductorium and telephone .
Il was found to be of to insert a liquid rheostat the telephone circuit , which had no ence on the reading but enabled the noise in the receiver to be altered at will , thus eat accuracy .
In all cases the calculation was of the type : Lessresistance , ofRes istanceLess { tance otance oSpecific cuctivityConductivity.ately.gwate .
The values iven in the tables are multiplied by 1000 .
The meRsurements with acids were made in a cell of the ' Arrhenius ' type .
Table I.\mdash ; Inversion Velocities , using 1 gramme-molecule of Chloride .
288 Mr. .
J. Caldwell .
[ June Table II.\mdash ; Inversion Velocities and crhts of Water per Litre of Solution , using 1 -molecule of chloride and varying the amount of cane sugar in 1 litre .
Equation 1\mdash ; ammes , Equation 2\mdash ; Water per litre rammes ; where is the inversion velocity for a solution of -molecule of cane sugar per litre .
Table III.\mdash ; Relative Rates of Inversion by Hydrogen Chloride of various Concentrations of Cane ugar in Volume-normal and Weight-normal Solutions .
Table of Chlorhydric Acid in presence of Glucose ( volume-normal ) .
1906 .
] of the Processes in Solutions .
Molecular Conductivities of Chlorhydric Acid .
, where is the conductivity in presence of gramme-molecules of the glucose per litre .
Table Conductivity of Chlorhydric Acid in presence of Glucose ( weightnormal ) .
ucose i Molecular Conductivities ( weight-normal ) .
, where is the conductivity in presence of -molecules of lucose per kilogramme of water .
VOL. LXXVIII .
I ativo.nducti.vity .
ativo.nducti.vity .
ativo.nducti.vity .
Table \mdash ; Inversion Velocities , using ' gramme-molecule of Cane 1 gl'amme-molecule of Chloride and 1 gramme-molecule of added Material ( unless otherwise stated ) .
Added substance .
itre 1906 .
] Studies of the Processes in Table VIII .
Inversion Velocities , using amme-molecule of Cane 1 gramme-molecule of Cbloride and crramnles of Water , together with a variable number of gramnle-molecules of additional Water and of Sodium Chloride .
Total volume of tion .
Table \mdash ; Equations representing the Influence of ' on the Conductivity of Chlorhydric and Acids of Concentration varying between 1 gl.amnle-molecule ecule per ( volume-normal ) .
Acid .
Glucose .
Galactose .
Manmtol .
Milk Sulphuric Acid .
Glucose .
represents the conductivity of a solution of acid ) molecules of added in a litre of solution .
1906 .
] Studies of the Processes in Table XII .
Conductivity of Chlorhydric Acid in presence of Galactose ( volume-normal ) .
Molecular Conductivities of Chlorhydric Acid .
, where is the conductivity in presence of gramme-molecules of the $alactose per litre .
Table XIII .
Conductivity of Chlorhydric Acid in presence of Mannitol ( volume-normal ) .
* Impure material , ) .
, where is the conductivity in eIlce of ules of the per litre .
Conductivity of Chlorhydric ence ( Lactose ( volume-normal ) .
Molecular of id. , where is the conductivity -molecules of lactose litre .
1906 .
] of the Processes 5 Table Conductivity of Sulphuric Acid in presence of ucose ( .
in Dilution of acid in litre per gl.amme-lnolecule .
granlmeslitre .
per S. l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 1SO ; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 1SO l50 ; 93 .
; 1SO ; 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; 93 .
; 93 .
l50 ; 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 1SO ; 1SO ; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 1SO ; 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 1SO l50 ; 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; 1SO l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 1SO ; / 2 1SO ; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; 93 .
l50 ; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; 93 .
; / 2 1SO l50 ; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; 93 .
l50 ; / 2 1SO ; 93 .
; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 93 .
l50 ; / 2 1SO olecular Cluctivities ohuric Acid .
Dilution of ' , the conductiv ity in ence of the rlncose p. litre .

