120 Hemisection of the Spinal Cord Monkeys .
[ June 18 , June 18 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor Daniel John Cunningham , Professor Percy Faraday Frankland , and Mr. William Napier Shaw were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read : \#151 ; I. " Results of Hemisection of the Spinal Cord in Monkeys .
" By Frederick W. Mott , M.D. , B.S. , M.R.C.P. Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received June 1 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) While engaged in studying experimentally the connexions of the cells of Clarke 's column with the ascending tracts of the spinal cord in the monkey , I was surprised to find that after hemisection in the lower dorsal region the sensory disturbances produced in no way corresponded with those already obtained by eminent observers .
I was , therefore , led to continue my experiments , and , by the kind permission of Professor Schafer , I carried them out in the Physiological Laboratory of University College .
My thanks are also due to him for much valuable advice and assistance .
The subject is one of great importance from a scientific , as well as from a clinical , point of view .
Some years ago , , a case occurred in my practice which tended to shake my faith in the absolute truth of the doctrine of complete and immediate decussation of sensory impulses in the spinal cord , as taught by Brown-Sequard .
The experiments which I have performed exhibit the following principal points of interest:\#151 ; .
1 .
Return of associated movements after complete destruction of the crossed pyramidal tract below the lesion .
2 .
That all sensory impulses do not decussate in the cord , in fact , they appear to show that certain sensory impulses , e.g. , touch , the muscular sense and localisation in space,.pass chiefly up the same side , painful impressions up both sides .
A peculiar condition known as " allochiria " occurs after hemisection .
1891.1 Note on the Density of Alloys of Nicleel and Iron .
121 3 .
The vaso-motor disturbances are on the same side as the lesion , and consist of vaso-dilation , swelling of the foot , and redness with rise of temperature of the skin of the foot , but , as compared with the opposite side , fall of temperature in the popliteal space on the side of the lesion , due , no doubt , to paralysis of the muscles .
4 .
The degenerations above and below the lesion are limited to the same side when the injury is perfectly unilateral .
There are certain facts connected with the degenerations which serve to show the origin and course of certain long and short tract fibres .
5 .
Stimulation of the cortex cerebri on both sides some weeks or months after the hemisection had been performed gave , as a rule , residts which showed that the block in the spinal cord produced by the hemisection still existed , although there had been a very complete return of associated movements .
6 .
In one case ablation of the leg area on the same side as the lesion in the spinal cord was performed many months afterwards .
II .
" The Origin and Progressive Motions of Cyclones in the Western India Region .
" By W. L. Dallas .
Communicated by R. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received June 2 , 1891 .
III .
" Note on the Density of Alloys of Nickel and Iron/ ' By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. Received June 3 , 1891 .
In the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' December 12 , 1889 , January 16 , 1890 , and May 1 , 1890 , I described certain properties of alloys of nickel and iron containing respectively 22 per cent , and 25 per cent , of nickel .
These alloys can exist in two states at temperatures between 20 ' or 30 ' C. below freezing and a temperature of near 600 ' C. After cooling , the alloys are magnetisable , have a lower electric resistance , a higher breaking stress , and lesser elongation ; after heating the alloys are not magnetisable , have a higher electric resistance , a lower breaking stress , and greater elongation .
I have now to add another curious property .
These alloys are about 2 per cent , less dense when in the magnetisable than when in the non-magnetisable state .
Two rings were tested containing respectively 25 per cent , and 22 per cent , of nickel with the following results , the densities being given without correction in relation to the density of water at the then temperature:\#151 ;

