]\gt ; Reflection of Light from Regularly tified Mediurn .
565 equivalent -ray activity of radium bromide ) is only obtainable from unpublished data relating the and -ray activities of radium and mesothorium .
Table In conclusion , the author would like to express his warmest thanks to Mr. C. C. Paterson for his kind interest and yement throughout the work .
On the Reflection of Light from a Regularly Stratifed JIedinm .
By LORD RAYLEIGII , O.M. , F.B.S. ( Received June 11 , 1917 .
) The remarkable coloured reflection from certain crystals of chlorate of potash described by Stokes , * the colours of old decomposed lass , and probably those of some beetles and butterflies , lend interest to the calculation of reflection from a regular stratification , in which the alternate strata , each uniform and of constant thickness , differ in refractivity .
The higher the number of strata , supposed perfectly regular , the nearer is the approach to homogeneity in the light of the favoured wave-lengths .
In a crystal of chlorate described by R. W. Wood , the purity observed would require some 700 alternations combined with a very high degree of regularity .
A general idea of what is to be expected may be arrived at by considering the case where a single reflection is very feeble , but when the component reflections are more vigorous , or when the number of alternations is very great , a more ' Roy .
Soc. Proc February , 1885 .
See also Rayleigh , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 24 , p. 145 ( 1887 ) , vol. 26 , pp. 241 , 256 1888 ) ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 3 , pp. 1 , 190 , 204 , 264 .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. 2 Lord Rayleigh .
On the Reflection of detailed examination is required .
Such is the aim of the present communication .
The calculation of the aggregate reflection and transmission by a single parallel plate of transparent material has been known , but it may be convenient to recapitulate it .
At each reflection or refraction the amplitude of the incident wave is supposed to be altered by a certain factor .
When the light proceeds at A from the surrounding medium to the plate , the factor for reflection will be supposed to be , and for refraction ; the corresponding quantities when the ress at is from the plate to the surrounding medium may be denoted by .
Denoting the incident vibration by unity , we have then for the first component of the reflected wave for the second , for the third , and so on , all reckoned as at the first surface A. Here denotes the linear dation of the second reflection as compared with the first , due to the thickness of the plate , and it is given by , ( 1 ) where is the refractive index , the thickness , and the angLe of refraction within the plate .
Also being the wave-length .
} together the various reflections and summing the infinite geometric series , we find .
( 2 ) In like manner for the wave transmitted the plate we get , ( 3 ) incident and transmitted waves being reckoned as at A. The quantities are not independent .
The simplest way to find the relations between them is to trace the consequences of supposing in ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) .
For it is evident a priori that , with a plate of vanishing thickness , there must be a vanishing reflection and an undisturbed total transmission .
* Accordingly , , ( 4 ) the first of which embodies Arago 's law of the equality of reflections , as well as the famous " " loss of half an undulation Using these , and substituting for , we find for the reflected vibration , , ( 5 ) , " " Wave Theory of Light ' Ency .
Brit vol. 24 , 1888 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' p. 64 .
Light from Regularly atified Medium .
and for the transmitted vibration ( 6 ) In dealing with a single plate , we are usually concerned only with intensities , represented by the of the moduli of these expressions .
Thus , Intensity of reflected light ; ( 7 ) Intensity of transmitted ( 8 ) the sum of the two expressions being unity , as was to be expected .
, not only does the reflected vanish when , but also whenever being an integer ; that is , whenever eturning to ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) , we may emark that , in real , we are postulating a transparent plate .
The effect of absorption be included by allowing to be complex .
When we pass from a single plate to consider the operation of a number of plates of equal thicknesses and separated by equal intervals , the question of phase assumes importance .
It is convenient to refer the ) rations to points such as , bisecting the intervals between the plates ; see figure , where for simplicity the incidence is regarded as perpendicular .
When we reckon the incident and reflected waves from instead of , we must introduce the additional factor for the interval corresponding to for the plate .
Thus ( 5 ) becomes .
( 9 ) So also if we reckon the transmitted wave at , instead of , we must introduce the factor , and ( 6 ) becomes .
( 10 ) Lord Rayleigh .
On the Reflection of The introduction of the new exponential factors does not interfere wiGh the moduli , so that still .
( 11 ) Further , we see that and thus ( in the case of transparency ) is a pure imaginary .
In accordance with ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) it is permitted to write , ( 13 ) in which and are real and Also from ( 9 ) , ( 13 ) where is an integer and .
( 16 ) The calculation for a set of equal and equidistant plates may follow the lines of Stokes ' work for a pile of plates , where intensities were alone regarded .
* In that case there was no need to refer the vibrations to particular points , but for our purpose we refer the vibrations always to the points , etc. , bisecting the intervals between the plates .
On this understanding the formal expressions are the same .
denotes the reflection from plates , referred to the point in front of the plates ; the transmission referred to a point behind the last plate .
" " Consider a system of plates , and imagine these grouped into two systems of and plates respectively .
The incident light being represented by unity , the will be reflected from the first group , and will be transmitted .
Of the latter the fiaction will be transmitted by the second group , and reflected .
Of the latter the fraction will be transmitted by the first group , and reflected , and so on .
Hence we get for the light reflected by the whole system , and for the light transmitted which , ives by summin the two geometric series , ( 17 ) .
\ldquo ; ( 18 ) ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1862 ; 'Math .
and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 145 .
Light from a Regularly tified Mediurn .
The argument applies equally in our case , only , etc. , now denote complex quantities by which the amplitudes of vibration are multiplied , instead of real positive quantities , less than unity , relating to intensities .
By definition Before proceeding fulther , we may consider the comparatively simple cases of two or three plates. .
, we get from ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) .
( 19 ) By ( 13 ) , , and thus .
( 20 ) It appears that vanishes not only when , but also independently of when .
In this case When , so that .
is real and is a pure imaginary .
From ( 9 ) we find that a real .
requires that , ( 21 ) or , as it may also be written , .
( 32 ) When is small we see that k S ' , or In this case only the first and second components of the egate reflection are sensible .
If there are three plates we may suppose in ( 17 ) Thus and being given by ( 19 ) .
If In terms of and Using these in ( 24 ) , we find that either , and therefore \ldquo ; is equal to zero , or else that being written for .
By solution of the quadratic or Lord Rayleigh .
On the Reflection of The second alternative is inadmissible , since it makes the denominators zero in ( 25 ) .
The first alternative gives , whence .
( 27 ) When , and therefore , is small , nearly , and in ( 15 ) may be omitted .
Hence or , ( 28 ) as might have been expected .
If we suppose , and ( 23 ) gives .
It is easy to nise that for every odd number , and for every even number In his solution of the functional equations ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) Stokes regards and as metions of continuous iables m and , and he obtains it with the aid of a differential equation .
The following process seems simpler , and has the advantage of not other than integral values of and .
If we make in ( 17 ) , or if we write In this we assume , so that .
( 31 ) The solution of ( 31 ) is where , ( 32 ) and are arbitrary constants .
Accordingly ' ( 33 ) in which there is but one constant of integration effectively .
This constant may be determined from the case of , for which .
By .ns of ( 32 ) we get so that and , , * Stirling has shown Proc that the two equations are not independent , ( 18 ) being derivable from 17 ) .
Light from Medium .
or since by , , ( 35 ) where .
( 36 ) In order to find we may in ( 17 ) ; and by use of ( 29 ) , with substituted for , we get and on reduction with use of ( 35 ) , ( 32 ) , By putting , we see that the upper sign is to be taken .
The expressions thus obtained are those of Stokes:\mdash ; The connection between and is established by .
Thus .
( 39 ) In Stokes ' problem , where represent intensities , and are real .
If there is no absorption , , so that are quantities .
In this case and .
( 40 ) When tends to infinity , approaches unity , and approaches zero .
For many purposes , equations ( 38 ) , ( 39 ) may conyeniently be written in another form , by making .
Thus , ( 41 ) , ( 42 ) where in Stokes ' problem and are real , and are uniquely determined in terms of and by 44 ) , ( 46 ) below.* * Except as to sign , which is a matter of indifference .
It may be remarked that his equation ' ( 13 ) can at once be put into this form by making his and pure imaginaries .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the Reflection of If we form the expression for by means of ( 42 ) , we find that it is equal to .
Also , ( 43 ) from which we see that , if and are real positive quantities , such that is real .
Similarly , are real .
Passing now to my proper problem , where and are complex factors , represented ( when there is no absorption ) by ( 13 ) , we have , ( 44 ) so that is real .
Also inh2 .
( 45 ) If we write , where are real , Since is real , either or must vanish .
In the first case , , and ( 45 ) shows that this can occur only when .
In the second case , which requires that Similarly if we interchange and , ( 46 ) so that is real , requiring either , or .
Also .
( 47 ) If , which can occur only when , or , which is the same , .
Again , if occurring when It thus appears that , of the four cases at first apparently possible , , are excluded .
There are two remaining alternatives:\mdash ; ( i ) ; ; ; ( ii ) ; ; Between these there is an important distinction in respect of what happens when is increased .
For ' .
Light from a Reguhrty Medium .
In case ( i ) this becomes , ( 48 ) and , ( 48 bis ) If be finite , teuds to co when increases , so that tends to unity , that is , the reflection tends to become complete .
We see also that , whatever may be , cannot vanish , unless , when also In case ( ii ) , ( 49 ) and , ( 49 bis ) so that continues to fluctuate , however great may be .
Here may vanish , since there is nothing to forbid .
Of this behaviour we have already seen an example , where In order to discriminate the two cases more clearly , we may calculate the value of from ( 43 ) , writing temporarily for brevity ( 50 ) Thus by ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) , ( 51 ) so that , or - ; ( 52 ) whence ( 53 ) The two factors in the numerator of the fraction differ only by the sign of , so that the fraction itself is an even function of .
The first factor may be written ; and similarly the second factor may be written with change of of .
( 54 ) In this , on restoring the values of and Lord Rayleigh .
On the Reflection of Also and thus .
( 55 ) transition between the two cases ( of opposite behaviour when occurs when .
In general , this requires either , or , ( 56 ) conditions which are symmetrical with respect to and , as clearly they ought to be.* In ( 55 ) , ( 56 ) , is limited to values less than unity .
; to ( 43 ) , we see that the evanescence of requires that , or , if we separate the real and imaginary parts of and If , for example , we take , we have Also ; so that In like manner by of and showing that in this case are both negative .
The general equation shows that is negative , when lies between and This is the case ( i ) above defined where an increase in leads to complete reflection .
On the other hand , is positive when lies outside the above limits , and then ( ii ) the reflection ( and transmission ) remain fluctuating however great may be .
When is small , case ( ii ) usually obtains , though there are exceptions for specially related values of and Particular cases , worthy of notice , occur when , where is an integer .
If , ( 57 ) and is negative for all admissible values of , case ( i ) .
If , ( 58 ) and we have case ( i ) or case ( ii ) , according as is greater or less than .
1 * That is with reversal of the sign of , which makes no difference here .
Light from Regularty When is given , as would usually happen in calculations with an optical purpose , it may be convenient to express the limiting values of ( 56 ) in another form .
We have When the passage is perpendicular , mula , viz. , gives , ( 60 ) relative refractive index .
We will now consider more in detail some special cases of optical interest .
We choose a value of such as will give the maximum reflection from .a single plat .
From ( 5 ) or ( 9 ) , ( 61 ) so that is berreatest for a iven when .
And then .
( b2 ) We may expect the greatest regate reflection when the components from the various plates co-operate .
This occurs when , so that in the notation of ( 50 ) , .
The introduction of these values into ( 54 ) yields , ( 63 ) ooming under ( i ) .
The same result may be derived from ( 57 ) , since here .
In addition to , we now have by ( 63 ) , and ( 48 ) gives .
( 64 ) We are now in a position to calculate the reflection for various values of 7 since by ( 62 ) if , so that .
( 65 ) Let us suppose that , as for glass and air , , making .
The following were calculated with the aid of the Smithsonian Tables of Hyperbolic Functions .
It appears that under these favourable conditions as regards and , the intensity of the reflected fJht approaches its limit ( unity ) when reaches 4 or 5 .
576 Reflection of Light from a Regularly Stratified Table I. In the case of chlorate of potash crystals with periodic twinning is very small at moderate incidences .
As an example of the sort of thing to be expected , we may take to Table Ir .
According to , if , the same value of obtains as in ( 63 ) , since we are supposing , and the same consequences .
follow .
* Retaining the same values of @ , that is those included under we will now suppose , where also is an integer .
From ( 55 ) , ( 66 ) since in this case ( ii ) .
By ( 49 bis ) we have now , setting as we see from ( 62 ) .
Comparing with ( 66 ) , we find is equal to 1 or , according as is odd or even ; and shows that when is odd , *But when is small , a slight departure from produces very different effects in the two cases .
Atmospheric Ozone in the of Sun Stars .
:and that when is even , .
The second plate neutralises the reflection from the first plate , the fourth plate that from the third , and so on .
The simplest case under this head is when S , A variation of the latter supposition leads to a verification of the general formulae worth a moment 's notice .
We assume , as above , , but leave open .
Since , ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) become ( 68 ) and these are of the form ( 39 ) , if we suppose .
The reflection from plates is derived from by merely for , that is , for ( jSk , equal to , as should evidently be the case , at least , when Absorption Bcmds of Atmospheric Ozone in the of Sun and By A. , F.B.S. , Professor of Astrophysics , and the Hon. B. J. STRUTT , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received June 13 , 1917 .
) [ PLATE 3 .
] In a paper communicated to the Royal Society in 1890 , Sir William Euggins gave an account of his discovery of a new group of lines in the photographic spectrum of Sirius , situated near the limit of atmospheric transmission .
* A photograph taken with a exposure was described as showing no strong lines after the termination of the hydrogen series until about was reached , at which place there appeared the first of a group of at least six lines , all of which were nearly broad as those of hydrogen .
The third line of the group , about , appeared to be the broadest .
The sixth line occurred almost at the limit of the photograph , where the spectrum was very Saint , and it was not possible to determine whether this was the last member of the group .
The wave-lengths of the lines , which were only considered to be roughly approximate , were given as 3338 , 3311 , 3278 , 3254 , 3226 , and 3199 .
In 1915 , a copy of an excellent photograph of the spectrum of Sirius , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 48 , p. 216 ( 1890 ) .

