84 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in , with vations on other Allied Lantern Activities .
By J. E. Gemmill , M.A. , M.D. , D.Sc .
, F.Z.S. , Lecturer in Embryology , Glasgow University , and in Zoology , Training College , Glasgow .
( Communicated by , Ur , E. W. MacBride , F.R.S. Received January 17 , _ Read February 29 , 1912 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I. Locomotion out of Water ... ... ... ... . .
84 II .
Locomotion under Water ... ... ... ... ... .
97 III .
Relation to other Activities ... ... ... .
100 IV .
Summary * ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 107 I. Out of Water .
Thirty years ago , in a paper to the Royal Society of London , * Romanes and Ewart pointed out that a sea-urchin uses its lantern in progression out of water , and gave an account of the manner in which the lantern acts .
This account , however , seems to have been passed over completely , since there is no mention of it in the later book of Romanes , 'Jellyfish , Starfish , and Sea-urchins/ London , 1885 , nor is it referred to in any of the general or special works dealing with Echinoderms that I have come across.f What one gathers from these sources , when they refer to the point at all , is that , out of water , sea-urchins are able to travel for short distances by using their spines as so many stilts , with the help of which they can pole their way along slowly and with difficulty , the motive power coming from the muscular collars at the bases of the spines .
The writer has- to confess that he was entirely ignorant of the account given by Romanes and Ewart in the paper above referred to , until after the whole of the following observations on locomotion had been made .
In view of the circumstance detailed above , and also as I have been able to obtain records of the action by a number of methods and to add much collateral information , it may not be amiss if a full and independent description be here given , all the more since that of the two authors named * .
Observations on the Locomotor System of Echinodermata , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' London , 1881 , pt .
3 , pp. 829\#151 ; 855 .
+ E.g. , Bronn 's ' Klassen u. Ordnungen/ Leipzig , 1904 , vol. 2 , p. 4 ; ' Cambridge Natural History , ' vol. 1 ; ' Treatise of Zoology , ' ed. by E. Bay Lankester , London , 1900 , pt .
3 ; Delage et Herouard 's ' Traits de Zoologie Concrete , ' Paris .
1903 , vol. 3 ; L.M.B.C. Memoir .on Echinus , by H. C. Chadwick , Liverpool , 1900 .
The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
85 requires to be supplemented in one important particular ( p. 91 ) , as well as to be extended under certain conditions to locomotion under water .
In 1910 , Miss Abel , a student attending one of the Nature Study Glasses at the Millport Marine Station , noticed that the specimen I had set her to watch seemed to move by lurches occurring at intervals , and that just prior to each lurch the whole urchin rose up slightly from the table surface .
I have pleasure in acknowledging this observation as the starting point of the following paper .
The fact was verified in Miss Abel 's specimen as well as in several others , and it was seen that the rising , prior to each lurch , was effected by protrusion of the lantern of Aristotle , the tips of the five teeth being brought together at a certain stage in the movement , and forming a powerful central stilt on which the greater part of the weight of the urchin for the time being rested .
It was surmised that , besides lifting up the urchin , the muscular apparatus of the lantern also pushed it forward at each lurch , the place where the teeth rested on the table serving as the fulcrum or fixed point in the movement .
A record of the direction and extent of the movements of the first urchin was then made by setting it to travel over a large sheet of paper , and making a dot on the paper immediately below a marked spine , at the end of every lurch .
This record is reproduced in fig. 1 .
Nothing further could be done at the time , but during last spring and summer I had the opportunity of examining the question further with the help of the plentiful material available from the tanks at the Millport Station .
It is perhaps an indication of the healthy character of these tanks that urchins which had been in them for three weeks or so , travelled just as vigorously as others which had been brought in on the actual day of the experiment .
The observations have reference primarily to Echinus esculentus L. , but apply also in their essentials to Echinus miliaris ( Gmel .
) , allowance being made for differences in size , length of spines , etc. Description of Action.\#151 ; When an urchin is travelling freely ( p. 93 ) out of water , there occurs a rhythmic swinging movement of the lantern in the direction of progression .
The movement is made up of a backward* and a forward stroke .
The former is the pushing or poling stroke and is accompanied by protrusion .
The latter is the return stroke , serving to bring the teeth forward again into position , and it is naturally accompanied by lifting or retraction of the lantern .
In detail , the sequence of events is as follows , for urchins of small or medium size ( .
up to 3f inches in equatorial shell diameter):\#151 ; Just after a lurch has been accomplished the * terms forward , backward , anterior , phave reference here to the direction of progression .
Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , lantern points downwards and backwards , and the tips of the teetli , which are firmly closed and strongly protruded , lie a little behind the centre of gravity of the whole urchin , the posterior edge of which is slightly tilted up .
The lantern is next retracted so that the teeth are lifted from contact with the supporting surface .
The tilting up of the posterior edge now disappears , and the lantern is then moved pendulum-wise till it comes to point downwards and forwards , and the tips of the teeth are slightly in advance of the Fig. 1.\#151 ; Becord of track ( x i| ) obtained by setting urchin on a large sheet of paper , marking a particular spine , and placing a small circle on the paper below this spine at the end of each lurch .
The lines connecting the various dots indicate approximately the path taken by the spine .
The total distance travelled by the central part of the urchin amounted to about 14 inches , the number of lurches was 37 , and the urchin itself measured about inches in equatorial shell diameter .
The track is less regular than the usual type .
( Drawing made by Miss Abel .
) centre of gravity of the whole urchin .
This is what we have called the return swing .
Early in it , the tips of the teeth begin to diverge slowly from one another .
The separation increases up till the end of the swing , and reaches its maximum immediately after the commencement of the second part of the whole movement , i.e. the part which we have called the pushing , or poling stroke .
This part is initiated by protrusion downwards and forwards of the very widely separated tips of the teeth .
The latter begin to 1912.1 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
87 come together , but are still more than half open when they first strike against the supporting surface .
Protrusion now continues , so that perforce the whole urchin begins to be slightly lifted up .
Since at the commencement of the pushing stroke the tips of the teeth are in advance of the centre of gravity of the urchin , one finds that the lifting up chiefly affects the anterior half of the shell , which accordingly becomes distinctly tilted .
Meantime the tips of the teeth have come firmly together and are pressing hard against the supporting surface .
The whole urchin is now pushed slowly forwards , partly by the action of the spines , but chiefly by that of the lantern itself , through its muscles .
The lantern and its muscles act like a lever of the third order , the tips of the teeth being at the fulcrum , and the weight being centred somewhere inside the shell .
In this manner the weight is gradually moved till it comes to lie in front of the fulcrum , and then the urchin tumbles forward under the influence of gravity .
The anterior edge is no longer tilted up , but rather becomes depressed as compared with the posterior one , which in its turn is propped up for a time by the teeth .
The latter are still protruded strongly , but now point backwards , and , by pushing to their furthest limit against the supporting surface , increase the distance travelled by the urchin in its forward lurch .
It is , however , only when the urchins have , so to speak , got " into their stride " that one sees matters proceeding exactly in the above manner .
At first , when the steps are shorter and the direction less definite , the alternate tilting up of the anterior and posterior edges is not well marked .
Gravity accordingly plays a smaller part in the lurches , each of which is rather a push forward over the tips of the spines than a rapid stumble or lurch .
This applies at all times to the movements of the larger sized urchins , i.e. those in which the equatorial shell diameter is greater than 4 inches .
The lantern is here smaller in proportion to the size of the whole shell , and the amplitude of forward or backward swing of which it is capable is not great enough to bring the tips of the teeth very sensibly in front of , or behind , the centre of gravity and thus produce the tilting above referred to .
Plasticene records and other methods of demonstration show , however , that the lantern is still used in exactly the same manner as before , and that the " steps " are still definite , though each is accomplished more slowly and tends to exhibit minor hitches , which depend on the varying amounts of forward movement possible over the particular spines on which the urchin is from time to time supported .
Muscles involved.\#151 ; On the whole , the anterior* and posterior protractor * See note on p. 85 .
Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 and retractor muscles may be described as acting in converse agreement , in order to produce the swinging part of the movements .
That is to say , the anterior protractors and the posterior retractors are associated together alike in relaxation and contraction , while there is a similar harmony in the case of the anterior retractors and the posterior protractors .
However , during the powerful downward push of the lantern , which lifts up the urchin , the whole set of protractors must act together .
Later , during the backward push of the lantern y the posterior retractors will be in action , while , conversely , the posterior protractors are more or less relaxed .
When it is remembered that the protractors tend to close the teeth and the retractors to open them , an explanation will readily suggest itself of the fact that , towards the end of the backward push , the lateral teeth are often seen to be more closely pressed together than the anterior and posterior ones .
This point is brought out in fig. 2 , and is explained in the notice attached .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Sketch of the teeth and oral membrane towards the very end of the phase of protrusion .
As in fig. 3 , the direction of the urchin 's movements was towards the top of the page .
The teeth are strongly protruded and point backwards , their tips being brought closely together .
The lateral teeth are here shown as coming together more closely than those in front and behind .
This condition , like the converse one illustrated in the previous figure , is often seen , and is due to the fact that the posterior retractor muscles alone of the retractor set are now in action , in order to slant the lantern in such a way that the necessary backward push will be given to the tips of the teeth acting against the supporting surface .
Meanwhile all of the protractors , except the posterior ones , are in action .
It will be remembered that the protractor muscles serve to close the teeth .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Sketch of the teeth and oral membrane as they appear a little after the commencement of the phase of protrusion .
The direction of the urchin 's movement was towards the top of the page .
At this time the oesophageal papillae ( not shown in the sketch ) are swollen out so as to fill in great part the space between the teeth .
The ' posterior tooth is here shown as being slightly less divergent than the others .
This , condition is often seen at the particular stage illustrated , It is due to the fact that , in order to permit the forward swing of the teeth which accompanies retraction , the posterior retractor muscle must have been in a state of at least partial relaxation .
It will be remembered that the retractor muscles serve to separate the teeth .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
1912 .
] The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
89 Retraction during the forward swing will be effected chiefly by the joint action of the four anterior pairs of retractor muscles .
The retractor muscles tend to pull apart the tips of the teeth , and this circumstance accounts for the separation of the teeth occurring during the return swing , and also for a feature frequently noted , that the posterior tooth , or pair of teeth , is now less divergent than the others , since the posterior retractor muscles are in a condition of , at least partial , relaxation in order to permit the advance of the tips of the teeth .
Recording Surfaces.\#151 ; The best means I could hit upon for getting an accurate record of the length of each step was to set the urchin to travel over a thin , smooth layer of plasticene , spread on a suitable backing , e.g. wood , glass , or stout paper .
Records are quite easy to obtain by this method , and a photograph ( natural size ) of one such record is given in fig. 4 .
It was made Fig. 4.\#151 ; Photograph ( natural size ) of track left on plasticene out of water by an urchin of 3f inches equatorial shell diameter .
The direction of movement was from left to right along the track .
The pushing action of the teeth is indicated by the slope of the tooth-marks , particularly in the later steps , where the plasticene happened to be more thickly spread .
The time occupied was 7 mins .
by an urchin of 3f inches equatorial shell diameter , and shows not only the marks of the teeth , but also those of the spines .
The best kind of surfaces for urchins to travel over are those which are hard enough to resist the protrusion of the teeth , and at the same time not so smooth as to make the teeth liable to slip during the push .
Glass is accordingly not one of the best ; Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , still , it gives sufficient purchase to enable urchins of large size to progress by short steps , while urchins of the smaller and medium sizes can travel over it almost as quickly as over wood or plasticene .
At the same time , while the longest steps I observed on glass measured about inch , the records on plasticene showed some steps which rather exceeded \ inch .
A certain amount of slipping must accordingly have taken place on the glass , and this is borne out by the facts which are noted at the end of next paragraph and also on p. 97 .
Strength of Effort.\#151 ; Not only are the lantern muscles strong enough to raise and push the urchin intermittently in the manner previously described , but they are able to effect this , even although the shell be loaded with a considerable weight .
Progression by short lurches can still take place in specimens of 3 inches diameter under loads of half a pound and under , while Fig. 5.\#151 ; Photograph ( natural size ) of track left on plasticene by a loaded urchin travelling out of water ( p. 90 ) .
Movement was from right to left .
The heavy dragging of the spines will be noted .
Five steps were taken , and then the urchin could advance no further , but was only able to bite at the plasticene , making a large pit , at the bottom of which is seen the white cardboard backing on which the plasticene was spread .
larger urchins are just able to move along for short distances carrying as much as 15 or 16 ozs .
Under these circumstances the impressions left by the teeth on surfaces prepared to receive them are deep and decided , the length of each step is short , and movement is impossible over smooth hard surfaces , on which the teeth and spines can obtain no purchase .
1912.1 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
91 Climbing.\#151 ; An urchin of small or medium size travelling actively with the help of the lantern can surmount considerable inequalities of surface .
For example , it may be guided by stimulation to hitch itself for some distance up a stair , the successive steps of which , if broad enough , may be as much as a fifth of an inch in height .
Such steps would prove an insuperable obstacle were it not for the powerful aid afforded by the lantern .
Compare climbing uphill on a plasticene surface under water ( p. 97 ) .
Marks of Teeth on Laminaria.\#151 ; Urchins of the medium and larger sizes ( from 2f inches in diameter upwards ) leave the mark of their teeth when travelling over a frond of Laminaria .
Each mark exhibits five dents , some little distance apart , showing ( what is brought out also by the various other methods of observation ) that the teeth are not closed at the time when they first impinge against the supporting surface .
The surface of the frond is not , however , broken through at these dents , still less is any part actually bitten out .
The smaller urchins have not weight enough , unless when artificially loaded , to leave the marks of their teeth on Laminaria , but down to the smallest size investigated ( -\#163 ; inch diameter ) they will leave such marks , even when unloaded , if made to travel over a surface of plasticene .
In the paper already referred to ( p. 84 ) Romanes and Ewart ascribe only a lifting action to the lantern , the push being apparently given by the spines alone .
I am convinced that the lantern also pushes strongly , indeed much more strongly than the spines , in active travelling .
Observation by means of a simple arrangement of mirrors allows one to wratch the action at leisure .
The dents and scratches made by the teeth on plasticene ( fig. 4 ) or paraffin wax always tend to take a backward slope .
Lastly and most convincingly , small and medium-sized urchins , the oral surface of which has been denuded of spines , can move by almost as large and as quickly repeated lurches as other urchins of corresponding size in which the spines are intact .
The observations on urchins travelling under water ( p. 97 ) have also a bearing on this point .
Progression by Spines only.\#151 ; It has just been stated that urchins of small and medium size may travel freely by the action of the lantern alone after all the spines on the oral surface have been removed .
Can the spines alone enable the urchin to travel ?
The difficulty here is to exclude the use of the lantern without causing such injury as would interfere with co-ordination of the spines .
One simple method consists in placing the urchin mouth downwards over a hole in a piece of wood , the hole being just so big that its edges are clear of the tips of the teeth when swinging begins .
Too big a hole puts the spines near the mouth out of use , but if the direction of the lantern swing be first determined by irritation , a long narrow hole can be used .
The Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , general result of this line of experiment and of the plasticene records is to show that urchins travel very slowly , and never further than an inch or two , if their lanterns are not in use .
Urchins not infrequently cast off all but the smallest of their spines , and renewal and re-growth to normal size are probably slow .
At any rate , among equal-sized urchins , one finds extreme differences as regards the number and size of the spinels .
There are , however , no corresponding differences in the rates at which the urchins travel out of water .
Indeed , the average results , as worked out from a large number of instances in which the relative lengths of the spines were noted , showed that the advantage , as regards speed and distance travelled , lay rather with the short and medium-spined urchins than with the long-spined ones , in cases where the lantern of Aristotle had been in use .
Rhythm.\#151 ; The time required for the various movements involved in a single lurch is fairly uniform for the same urchin if travelling undisturbed , but shows some irregularity When changes of direction are adopted .
The rate of swing is only slightly accelerated by stimulation , but becomes retarded as vitality is lost .
The average frequency varies slightly among healthy specimens of similar size , but shows marked variation according to differences in size , the smaller urchins having higher frequencies .
The following data may be quoted from examples actually observed :\#151 ; Equatorial shell-diameter of urchin .
Time in seconds between six successive 41 steps .
" .
Average length of " step .
" in .
1 15 , 16 , 14 , 15 , 15 , 16 v%r of an inch .
lb 20 , 23 , 22 , 22 , 21 , 23 tH \#187 ; .
2b 25 , 27 , 18 , 18 , 26 , 27 To To \#187 ; 3\#151 ; 3 b 36 , 37 , 50 , 50 , 36 , 36 To To \#187 ; 6 8 4 45 , 44 , 46 , 46 , 44 , 45 \ 5 50 , 52 , 65 , 44 , 51 , 49 J TO 10 \#187 ; Length of " Step"\#151 ; As indicated in the last column the length of step varies according to size , the smaller urchins naturally taking the shorter steps .
At the same time , after an equatorial shell diameter of inches has been reached , there is practically no further increase in the length of the steps .
Urchins of 2\\#151 ; inches proved the best for travelling .
The larger urchins are more sluggish than those of medium size , and their weight is probably greater in proportion to the size of the lantern and the strength of its muscles .
Change of Direction.\#151 ; It is well known that urchins will change their line of progression to a direction away from a part irritated .
Out of water , a 1912.1 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern Echinus .
considerable time elapses before the change becomes obvious through actual movement of the whole shell. .
Much earlier , however , as careful watching shows , the lantern of Aristotle has begun to change the direction of its rhythmic swing , and a large part of the delay is due to the fact that the teeth cannot at once get themselves into proper position for the commencement of a lurch .
One or more ineffectual swings have usually to occur before the first step is actually taken .
These swings tend to be intermediate between the old and the new directions , and work round gradually to the latter ( see fig. 8 ) .
Inversion.\#151 ; As was pointed out by Romanes and Ewart , if an urchin be turned upside down out of water , the lantern will exhibit rhythmic swinging movements accompanied by protrusion , retraction , closing and opening of the teeth .
These movements are just those of the locomotor swing .
In vigorous specimens they are even slightly greater in extent , as well as quicker in rhythm , than when actually employed for movement .
A. very interesting point is that the direction of swing of the lantern in an inverted urchin can be made to change by stimulation , and that the new direction adopted is always the one that would lead the urchin away from the stimulus were it free to travel .
As noted for the normal position , in the previous paragraph , the change of swing of the lantern takes some little time to manifest itself , and is usually initiated by one or more short intermediate oscillations .
Equatorial Section.\#151 ; If an urchin shell be divided equatorially , and the lower half , still full of coelomic fluid , be set mouth downwards on a suitable surface , it will still in some instances progress , though never freely or far , both when free of load and when carrying moderate loads .
Under these conditions it is possible to observe from the inside the swinging of the lantern during the course of each lurch , and I have obtained records on plasticene demonstrating the corresponding action of the teeth .
At best , however , no doubt owing to the shock caused by the division of the shell , the movements are very far from being regular or persistent .
General Facts regarding Progression.\#151 ; If a number of apparently healthy urchins be taken at random out of the tanks and placed mouth downwards on a table , about half of them will begin to travel with considerable freedom , the rest remaining sluggish .
It is hard to say what causes the difference in each case .
Small and medium-sized urchins start off more readily than large ones , but the same urchin may go freely at one time , and at another hardly shift its place .
In the latter event the lantern is , either not in use at all , such movement as occurs being caused by the spines , or more rarely the teeth are only knocking or biting up and down against the surface .
In either case irritation , as by scratching one side with a needle , is sometimes , Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , but not always , an effective starter .
It would , seem as if a certain amount of physiological inertia had first to be overcome before the nerve stimuli could be released on which co-ordinated movements of the lantern depend .
Habit also counts for something .
The most persuasive method of starting the movements is to set the urchin upside down and apply irritation to one side .
Once the movements have begun , you may expect with confidence that the urchin will travel freely if it be restored to the mouth-downward position , even though prior to inversion it had refused to budge at all .
Similarly , if it be next immersed in sea water so that it can travel by help of spines and sucker feet alone , it may continue to exhibit an ineffective , but still rhythmic and regular lantern activity .
Inertia has been replaced by momentum .
Urchins which one can recognise as being in an unhealthy condition fail altogether to travel out of water , though under water they may still be able to move about by using their sucker feet .
Distance Travelled and Time Taken.\#151 ; The furthest I have noted urchins to travel out of water is 12 to 16 inches in 20 minutes .
Usually the distances are shorter , and , in over 100 experiments , just45 percent , of the urchins went upwards of 4 inches in the time named .
The direction of progress cannot be predicted .
The same urchins , similarly oriented , in successive experiments at intervals of an hour or so , often started off in quite different directions from those which they had previously adopted , although the greatest care was taken to prevent surface irritation during the experiments , as well as during the intervals when the urchins were replaced in the tanks .
The lines of progression may be divided into three groups , as follows :\#151 ; ( a ) Straight , or showing only slight irregularities , usually wavy in character , from side to side .
( b ) Curving more or less uniformly and quickly to one side .
( c ) Showing one or more distinct changes of direction .
The tracks intervening between the changes fall naturally under a or b. The proportion of instances in which the above lines of progression were adopted in my experiments and the relation to rotation are shown in the table under the next heading ( p. 96 ) .
Rotation.\#151 ; Out of water urchins usually exhibit a certain amount of rotation as well as progression .
The two movements are associated together in the sense that both are caused by the action of the lantern and of the spines , but , so far as I can judge , they do not depend on one another in any intimate or causal sense .
There may be rotation without progression , and progression without rotation , and when they occur together there is no fixed ratio between them .
For example , an urchin may travel 12 inches and yet have practically the same orientation at the end as at the beginning , or it may 1912 .
] The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in .
95 rotate through two or three right angles without shifting its place for more than an inch or so .
Again , if it does travel actively and rotate at the same time , the rotation may be very slight ( 10 ' ) or may amount to a full turn of the circle .
At the same time , rotation and progression probably affect one another in determining the character of most of the tracks which come under group ( b ) as well as of some which fall under group ( ) .
Taking the latter first , we find that there are instances in which each forward step is accompanied by a slight twist to one side or the other , while in the next lurch there occurs a similar twist , but in the opposite direction .
Or several successive twists may be to one side , and these may next be rectified by a ( roughly ) corresponding number in the opposite direction .
The line of progress here shows wavy deviations from side to side , and at the end of the journey little or no rotation has been effected .
Such instances , however , only form a small proportion of group ( a ) .
As will be seen from the accompanying table the average amount of rotation in this group is still distinctly high .
It is in the cases coming under group ( ) that an association between rotation and progression is definitely indicated .
This group is marked by continuous curving of the track to one side or the other .
From the table it will be seen that in the great majority of instances rotation in the same direction also occurs .
The factors that produce rotation seem to be twofold .
First , there occurs a screwing action transmitted through the lantern , and caused by unequal contraction on the part of the single muscles making up each pair of protractors and retractors , or by unequal contraction on the part of the protractors and retractors at opposite sides .
When the teeth are opened and pressed hard against a surface , sufficient power and purchase is thus obtained to produce slight rotation of the whole urchin , and this movement may be aided by pushing on the part of the spines .
No doubt the cases where there was rotation through two right angles or more , without sensible progression , are to be explained by successive small twists of this character .
It is not improbable that the habit may be of use in feeding by enabling the urchin to dig in its teeth with greater effect , and to repeat the bites many times without travelling far away from ground which it may have found to be suitable .
Possibly also the action is reminiscent of a former boring habit , or related to this habit in other urchins ( p. 101 ) .
Should the action occur while the urchin is travelling , the track will tend to curve in the direction of rotation .
There will obviously be no definite limit to the total amount of deflection and rotation thus produced .
The second element in the production of rotation has reference to the spines alone .
These have always to play their part in travelling , chiefly as Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. ; 17 , supports , but also to some extent as active pushing agents .
Should they be defective or inactive or not straightened out over any part of the walking surface of the shell , that part will tend to lag behind at each lurch unless it happens to be already right behind or right in front .
The lagging of one side will produce an apparent rotation of the shell towards that side , and will also cause the line of progression to be deflected in a corresponding direction .
Here the amount of deflection and rotation cannot possibly exceed two right angles , and will usually be much less .
The very marked relation between progression and rotation shown in the tracks which fall under class ( b ) seems capable of satisfactory explanation on the above lines .
If one injures a group of spines on the walking surface , so much irritation seems to be caused that purely passive or mechanical factors are superseded .
At least I found it quite unsafe to predict that a recently injured part would lag behind .
The handicapping effect of the injury seems to be overridden by the screwing action of the lantern and spines , and this action in turn must depend on nerve reflexes , the analysis of which falls outside the scope of this paper .
Ratio of Rotation to Progression.\#151 ; To give an idea of amount of rotation relative to progression , I adopted , in the case of each experiment , the ratio obtained by dividing the total rotation in degrees by the amount of progression in inches .
The average value of this ratio in groups ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) is given below , and it will be noted that the table only includes instances .
in which the amount of progression in 20 minutes was upwards of 4 inches .
From what has been said before , it will be evident that , if all instances be taken into account , the B/ P ratio may vary from nothing to 180 or more .
In a single lurch there may be as much as 20 ' of rotation .
Table showing Direction of Progress and Belation to Kotation in 40 instances in which the Total Amount of Progression exceeded 4 inches ( 100 mm. ) in 20 minutes .
f Without rotation , 2 instances .
( a ) Progression along a line which is straight j With rotation , 12 instances ; average or shows only small variations from side -j E/ P ratio , 16 .
to side ; 14 instances | Dextral* rotation , 6 instances .
^ Sinistral rotation , 6 instances .
( b ) Progression along a line curving more or less uniformly towards one side ; 23 instances ; average E/ P ratio , 11 rCurvature of progression corresponds with direction of rotation , 18 instances .
j Both dextral , 10 instances .
} Both sinistral , 8 instances .
I Curvature of progression does not correspond with direction of rotation , ^ 5 instances .
( c ) Progression along a line showing one or more sudden changes in direction ; 3 instances ; average E/ P ratio , 10\#163 ; .
* In the watch-hand direction as viewed aborally .
1912 .
] The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
9 II .
Under Water .
In ordinary circumstances the lantern of Aristotle is of little importance as regards locomotion under water .
Even large urchins will travel mouth downwards over a smooth plasticene surface without leaving the marks of their teeth .
The sucker feet are now in action and , in addition , the spines are able to play their part not merely as passive supports , but , by means of the muscular collars at their bases , as active agents in pushing the urchin along , now that its weight is so greatly lessened .
Indeed , under water a vigorous urchin can move with no little freedom over a horizontal surface without using anything but its spines .
Accordingly , although a rhythmic swing of the lantern in the direction of progression may still occur , the teeth are not protruded so far or so vigorously at any time as to press hard against the supporting surface .
Again , in ordinary movements on a vertical surface the sucker feet and spines seem to suffice .
But when the urchin is travelling quickly upwards on such a surface it may use its lantern with powerful effect to aid the progress .
If one observes this through the wall of a thin glass vessel , one can hear the grating of the teeth against the glass and see them slipping in the middle of the push , or even twice or thrice in each push , owing to the smoothness of the surface .
I noted this particularly in some urchins brought into sea-water which had first been boiled , to expel the air , and then cooled down to ordinary tank temperature ( p. 106 ) .
No doubt , in nature , the lantern will be of no little use in quick upward progression on any vertical surface which is sufficiently rough to allow the teeth to push without slipping , and yet smooth enough to give attachment to the sucker feet .
However , even on a horizontal , or practically horizontal , surface , I have been able by three methods to compel the use of the lantern for locomotion under water , and by two of these methods to obtain a record on plasticene of the marks left by the teeth , while in using the third I had to be content with ocular observation of the action .
Of the first two methods , one consisted simply in loading the urchin with a weight of half a pound or more and setting it to travel on a horizontal plasticene surface ( fig. 6 ) .
In the second method I left the urchins unloaded , but induced them to travel up an inclined plasticene surface by first setting them on such a surface and then irritating the downward side .
The sucker feet are able to come into action against a smooth plasticene surface , but not so effectively as , for example , against glass , and this circumstance , combined with the fact that the weight of the shell had to be lifted up the slope , apparently made it necessary that the action of the feet and the spines should be reinforced by that of the VOL. LXXXV.--B .
H Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , Fig. 6.\#151 ; Photograph ( natural size ) of track left by a small urchin heavily loaded and travelling under water on a horizontal surface covered with a thin layer of plasticene .
Numerous very short steps were taken .
The slanting of the dents indicates the direction of movement , m , towards the foot of the page .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Photograph ( natural size ) of track left by a larger urchin completely immersed under water and induced to travel up an inclined plane of smooth plasticene in the manner described .
The marks of the teeth are slanting but not deep .
The direction of movement was towards the foot of the page .
No mark at all has been left by the anterior tooth , i.e.j the tooth on the side towards which the urchin is travelling .
1912 .
] The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
99 lantern ( fig. 7 ) .
Too gentle a slope will not give the desired result , and in iny experiments it was only with an incline of 25 ' or over that a record could be obtained .
The third method consisted in setting the urchins to travel over a tightly stretched surface of fine tow-netting silk placed in a glass vessel , the bottom of which was thin and smooth enough to allow observation through it .
One then watched what happened , by means of a simple arrangement of reflecting mirrors .
The meshes of the silk interfere with the action of the suckers at the ends of the podia , and the movements of the spines are , to some extent , hindered through the tips sticking in the meshes , while at the same time the silk is sufficiently transparent to allow the teeth to be distinctly seen when they are protruded and brought up hard against it .
Under these circumstances , both when loaded and unloaded , urchins may be observed to use the lantern freely and with effect .
Partial Immersion.\#151 ; Urchins that are only partially immersed under water will be found to use their lanterns for locomotion even over horizontal surfaces , in a degree varying inversely with the depth to which they are immersed .
One may evoke stronger or weaker efforts on the part of the lantern simply by siphoning water out of , or into , the vessel in which the urchins are contained .
Fig. 8 shows a photograph of the track left on plasticene by an urchin which was just a little more than half immersed ( see explanation appended to the figure ) .
The employment of the lantern , as described above , may at times be of the greatest service to urchins in the lower tidal zones , by enabling them to escape back into deeper water should the outflowing tide threaten to leave them in an unfavourable position .
Under water , unless when heavily loaded , even large urchins will leave no impressions of their teeth when travelling over a frond of Laminaria .
The bearing of this on the question of feeding is referred to later ( p. 101 ) .
The lower half of an urchin placed mouth downwards may travel for short distances under water , but , like the uninjured urchin , it will not , except when loaded , leave impressions of its teeth on a plasticene surface .
In nature , urchins may have to travel under water over horizontal surfaces ( e.g. , sand , mud , rocks , etc. , covered by growths of fine algae , etc. , or powdered with sand or mud ) , where the sucker feet cannot come into action , and where it may be of great advantage that the action of the spines should be reinforced by that of the lantern .
This is the more important since there is evidence that urchins { Echinus esculentus ) , whether normally or pathologically , not infrequently shed all but the smallest of their spines , and as spines are structures of somewhat slow growth , were it not for the lantern Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 such urchins would be comparatively helpless in surroundings where their sucker feet could not take hold .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Photograph ( natural size ) of track left by an urchin ( 3f inches in equatorial shell diameter ) which was travelling over a plasticene surface while only rather more than half covered by sea-water .
All the sucker feet , which are normally used when a completely immersed urchin is travelling mouth downwards , were in action in this instance , but nearly half of the bulk of the urchin did not have its weight neutralised by submergence .
Accordingly , the lantern has been used with effect , and yet has not needed to be protruded in each step with sufficient force to bring the teeth firmly together .
Separate dents are thus left by each of the five teeth in each step .
It will be remembered that powerful action of the protractors causes closure of the teeth ( p. 88 ) .
The direction of the movement was from left to right .
When the urchin reached the lower right-hand corner it was irritated on the side looking towards this corner .
The crowding of the tooth-marks at this part is a record of those .
short and comparatively ineffective swings of the lantern which usually initiate a change of direction due to irritation ( p. 93 ) .
III .
Relation to Other Activities .
( a ) Feeding.\#151 ; No doubt this is by far the most important function of the lantern .
The movements employed will resemble in many respects those which have just been described , the chief difference being that little or no lateral swing will , be required .
However , in feeding , as in locomotion , there must occur:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Commencing protrusion with teeth fully opened ; { 2 ) gradual closure of teeth , accompanied by fuller protrusion , giving firm pressure against the surface which is being bitten or cropped ; ( 3 ) gradual 1912.1 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
101 retraction and swing into new position , accompanied by partial opening of the teeth .
In ( 2 ) the weight of the urchin will not be sufficient to supply counter resistance .
Even out of water the weight alone could only cause the teeth to make slight marks on a frond of Laminaria ( p. 91 ) .
Under water there must be strong fixation by the sucker feet , and the need for fixation will be all the greater when the urchin is grazing on a vertical surface .
As a matter of fact , urchins travelling out of water over the prepared plasticene surfaces often took a small bite out of the plasticene at each step .
The boluses , however , were not properly taken up into the gullet , but tended to remain within the grasp of the lower ends of the teeth .
The screwing action of the lantern referred to on p. 95 will obviously be of use in biting into hard or tough surfaces as well as in separating weeds , barnacles , worm tubes , etc. , from the surfaces to which they are attached .
Boring.\#151 ; In the Clyde area , Echinus and Echinus miliaris are not recognised as having a boring habit , though F. Caillaud* * * S ascribes such a habit to the latter on the coasts of Brittany .
The same author states that Strongylocentrotu and Echinus miliaris excavate cavities by a knocking or striking action of the teeth .
P. Fischerf agrees in general with Caillaud , while M. HesseJ also records Echinus miliaris as having a boring habit .
G- .
JohnS gives a full description of the cavities made by different urchins in the lava rocks of San Miguel , and believes that these cavities are formed chiefly by the action of the teeth , though the spines also play a part , probably by giving the urchin a rotary movement .
If into the knocking action of the teeth spoken of by Caillaud we read just such movements as I have shown to occur in locomotion , viz. : protrusion of the teeth in the open condition , followed by still further protrusion with powerful closure and a sidelong push , we shall get an action which , in course of time , may well excavate cavities in rocks of moderate hardness .
The teeth will play the chief part , as is natural considering the extreme hardness of their tips and the manner in which their length can be maintained by growth from the permanent tooth germs .
It is noteworthy that certain urchins with * " Observations sur les oursins perforants de Bretagne , " ' Rev. et Mag. de Zool. , ' 1856 , ser. 2 , vol. 8 , pp. 158 , 179 ; " Supplement a des pr6cedentes observations , " ' Compt .
Rend .
, ' 1857 , vol. 45 , pp. 474\#151 ; 476 .
+ " Note sur les perforations de l'Echinus lividus Lamk .
, " ' Ann. Sc. Nat. , ' 1864 , s6r .
5 Zool. , vol. 1 , pp. 321\#151 ; 332 .
+ " Note sur les motifs que determinent les oursins a se creuser dans les rochers des reduits dans lesquels ils se logent , " * Ann. Sc. Nat. , ' 1867 , s6r .
5 , Zool. , vol. 7 , pp. 257\#151 ; 263 .
S " TJeber bohrende Seeigel , " 'Arcli .
f. Naturgesch .
, ' 1889 , vol. 55 , pp. 268\#151 ; 302 .
Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , boring habits elsewhere do not exercise these , where there are no tides , as in the Mediterranean.* Gill Besjnration .
In the tanks , urchins that are apparently healthy sometimes have their gills prominent and well filled , while an hour or two later the gills may be by no means conspicuous .
Changes of this kind do not seem to be rhythmic in character .
Probably they depend on such factors as variations in the total quantity of fluid within the lantern coelom .
A necessary condition is relaxation of the muscular tissue of the gill-walls ( see below , p. 103 ) .
The oral membrane also will often be found to be flaccid when the gills are largest .
But , so far as this paper is concerned , the important question as regards respiration is whether the rhythmic movements of the lantern have any influence in causing flux and reflux of the fluid contained in the gills .
This question arises alike in connection with the powerful lantern movements previously described , and with the jninor ones now to be noted .
Under water , urchins which are otherwise motionless may for hours at a time show slow rhythmic movements of the lantern .
These movements correspond with the locomotor ones if one supposes the latter to be greatly reduced .
There is slight protrusion and retraction , with opening and closing of the teeth accompanied by lateral swing .
The rate corresponds exactly with that in actual locomotion .
I have had the opportunity repeatedly of watching the movements in question in specimens which had been left undisturbed for several days in glass-sided tanks provided with a somewhat feeble circulation .
On one occasion at 11 a.m. the positions of several urchins showing the movements were carefully marked , and at 3 p.m. it was found that the urchins had not shifted their position , though the movements of the lantern were still going on .
Careful watching through the glass failed to reveal any corresponding rhythmic swelling or contraction of the gills .
The same thing holds good regarding the major rhythmic movements of the lantern which subserve locomotion .
There is , under ordinary circumstances , no obvious increase or diminution of the size of the gills during protrusion and retraction of the teeth .
If such variations do occur they are too slight to be distinguishable amid the secondary movements imparted to individual portions of the gills by the spines , tube feet , and pedicellarise which are in constant activity all around .
Ordinary Respiration.\#151 ; In considering how renewal of the coelomic fluid inside the gills of Echinus is effected one must not forget two facts , ( 1 ) the * Fischer , loc. tit .
, and de Serres , Marc , " Sir Faction perforante de 1'Eehinus lividus , " 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' 1857 , vol. 44 , p. 72 ; and " Note sir l'Echinus lividus de l'Oc6an , consid6r6 comme un espece perforante , " ibid. , 1856 , vol. 43 , pp. 405\#151 ; 6 .
1912.1 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
103 ciliation of the internal lining of the lantern coelom , of which the gill cavity is a portion , and ( 2 ) the contractile nature of the gill wall .
( 1 ) If a single drop of methylene blue solution be injected by a needle which just penetrates through the mouth membrane into the lantern coelom , parts of the neighbouring gill will show some coloration after an interval of a few seconds .
Here we have a means which in itself seems almost sufficient for ordinary needs .
( 2 ) In Echinus esculentus the gill-walls possess contractility .
Uexkiill* states definitely that in Sphcerechinus granularis the gill-walls are destitute of muscular elements , and accordingly are entirely dependent for their movements on the pressure within the lantern coelom .
Obviously the question is of very great importance as regards the mechanics of respiration .
In Echinus esculentus one may bring forward the following evidence for contractility:\#151 ; ( a ) Direct stimulation of a single gill , e.g. by touching with a needle , will cause retraction of this gill without the others being affected .
In very young urchins , as Macbridef has shown , the lantern coelom is divided into five separate compartments .
However , in specimens measuring 1\ inches and upwards in equatorial shell diameter , I satisfied myself , by injecting methylene blue with all due gentleness , that these compartments communicate freely with one another .
( b ) Under a low power of the microscope in the undisturbed condition individual terminal branches of any part of a gill may be seen occasionally to contract or expand , apart from emptying or filling of the rest of the gill .
( This may be a local reflex depending on the condition as regards oxygen and carbonic acid of the contained ccelomic fluid .
) ( c ) Weak solutions of nicotine and certain other reagents will cause active shrinkage of the gills .
Nicotine is well known as possessing an almost specific power of causing muscular tissue in urchins to contract strongly .
( d ) Nitrite of amyl , on the other hand , has a relaxing action , and , if carefully employed , may be used to remove moderate nicotine contractions .
( e ) The contractile property of the gill may be removed temporarily , but completely , by exposure out of water .
This method is referred to further on p. 104 .
It is the best to employ in experiments regarding the influence of internal pressure on turgescence of the gills .
( / ) Microscopic examination of sections of a gill shows just outside of the * " Uber die function der Polfschen Blasen am Kauapparat d. regularen Seeigel , " ' Mitth .
Zool. Station , Neapol .
, ' 1897 , vol. 12 , pp. 463\#151 ; 476 , taf .
21 .
t " The Development of Echinus esculentus " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1903 , vol. 195 , pp. 285\#151 ; 326 .
Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , ecelomic lining a thin membrane with fine fibrils resembling those of Echinid muscle .
We may take it then as certain that , in Echinus esculentus , the gill walls are contractile .
Further , under normal circumstances , the gill-walls maintain a degree of tonicity sufficient to prevent them from responding readily to moderate rises of internal pressure .
One may press on the teeth and oral membrane in a healthy urchin without affecting the gills .
Less force similarly applied in the case of an urchin treated as under ( ) causes the gills to swell out at once .
Under ordinary circumstances accordingly , in a healthy Echinus esculentus , it seems most probable that the gill circulation depends\#151 ; ( 1 ) chiefly on the ciliation of the ccelomic lining ; ( 2 ) in a minor degree on contraction and relaxation of the musculature of the gill-wall , occurring without rhythm and probably by reflex action ; ( 3 ) also in a very minor degree on other slowly acting causes , e.g. variations in the total quantity of fluid within the lantern coelom .
Forced Respiration.\#151 ; What one might call " forced respiration " can , however , occur .
This is evidenced by swelling and shrinkage of the gills , corresponding with that rhythmic functional activity of the lantern whose application to locomotion it was the first object of this paper to bring out .
Forced respiration of this kind can only take place effectively if the muscular walls of the gills be in a state of relaxation .
Experimentally , exposure to air affords a good means of inducing this condition .
The exposure should be done , as far as possible , without leakage of coelomic fluid and consequent disturbance of internal pressure conditions .
Keeping the urchin inverted for 10 or 15 minutes within a vessel with just enough seawater to leave the gills uncovered will be found to give the result desired .
Subsequent complete immersion , followed , if necessary , by mechanical stimulation , in order to induce or increase the rhythmic lantern movements , allows the effect of these movements on the now flaccid gills to be watched .
Shrinkage of the gills takes place during protrusion of the lantern .
It is best marked towards the extreme of this phase and is followed by turgescence which , occurring with some suddenness at the commencement of retraction , persists throughout the retraction phase , and is even continued for a brief period into the commencement of the succeeding protrusion .
The filling and emptying of the gills is quite regular , and affects all of them alike .
The rationale of the process seems to be as follows:\#151 ; The lantern and the oral membrane act as a diaphragm which rises and falls .
With each descent of the diaphragm ( i.e. during protrusion ) the total space within the shell tends to be 1912 .
] The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
105 enlarged , so that some lowering of pressure is established .
This lowering of pressure also affects the lantern coelom , the walls of which in many parts are thin and highly mobile .
Accordingly , the fluid within the gills flows back into the lantern coelom .
On the other hand , when the diaphragm rises ( i.e. during retraction ) , the internal pressure is heightened throughout , and the gills are refilled by an outflow of fluid from the lantern coelom .
A corresponding tendency to slightly greater fullness of the tube feet and anal plate can also sometimes be observed .
Normally the anus is kept closed .
Uexkiill ( see below ) noted that during retraction of the lantern in when the anus happened to be open , a compensatory outflow of fluid from the last part of the intestine might take place , and suggested that in this way the evacuation of faeces might be aided .
He also rightly pointed out that adjustment of internal to external pressure can take place by the passage of water through the mouth .
But immediate compensatory flux and reflux can hardly be supposed to take place by the mouth when one remembers the usual condition as regards narrowness of the oesophagus , and the manner in which the oesophageal papillae swell out towards the end of retraction and during the first stage of protrusion .
This last circumstance , as Uexkull noted , is an indication that the internal pressure is greatest towards the end of retraction .
It is quite possible , however , that the process of swallowing may be aided by the suction which protrusion of the lantern is capable of exercising , supposing the oesophageal canal to be open .
Paralysis of the gill musculature can also be obtained by rinsing the gill gently with an 8 per cent , solution-of chloral hydrate in salt water , and then washing thoroughly with clean water after an interval of 10 or 15 seconds .
This produces some slight rigidity of the gill wall along with the paralysis , so that for observational purposes the method is not so good as that of exposure to the air , which leaves the gill wall flaccid .
It has , however , the advantage of causing cessation of movement in the surrounding spines , etc. , if these have also been rinsed with the chloral .
If one pierces the shell and the buccal membrane by fine holes into which capillary tubes are inserted , one may sometimes observe in these tubes a slight rise and fall of the fluid level accompanying each retraction and protrusion of the lantern .
This is best seen in urchins out of water .
But it will be found that with fine tubes there is often failure of response to slight variation of pressure .
A very sensitive method , which , however , can only be applied out of water , is to bring the capillary tubes into such a position that drops of escaping ccelomic fluid just begin to form at their outer ends .
The rate of dropping is hastened during retraction of the lantern and lessened or reduced to zero during protrusion .
Dr. J. F. Gemmill .
[ Jan. 17 , The question now arises , does the gill wall under physiological circumstances relax sufficiently to facilitate rhythmic filling and emptying ?
If water is thoroughly boiled to drive off all dissolved air and then cooled , and if urchins , especially those of small or moderate size , be brought into it , they will climb vigorously up to the surface , exhibiting in many cases rhythmic locomotor movements of the lantern and having the gills well expanded .
Not in all , but in about a third of such instances , one can observe some degree of swelling and shrinkage of the gills accompanying retraction and protrusion of the teeth .
As regards " forced respiration , " then , I have shown that in the rhythmic activity of the lantern we have a function capable of emptying and filling the gills when the muscular walls of the latter are relaxed , and that in one particular state of the surrounding water the required degree of relaxation may occur .
TJexkulVs Experiments.\#151 ; An interesting and suggestive set of experiments on the factors which control filling and emptying of the gills in the Mediterranean species , Sphcerechinus granular is , has been made by J. von Uexkull ( loc. cit. ) .
He was able ( by mechanical stimulation of the nerve ring in an opened urchin which had previously been immersed in sea-water saturated with CO2 ) to induce rhythmic retraction and protrusion of the lantern .
These movements were accompanied respectively by filling and emptying of the gills due to rise and fall of the pressure within the lantern coelom .
He states that rise of pressure is caused by compression of the coelom and its sacculations , resulting from contraction of the mouth membrane , the depressor muscles of the radii , and the walls of the dental sacs .
Lowering of pressure , on the other hand , appeared to be caused by contraction of the so-called compass sheet of muscle connecting the five forked radii .
In single instances , he states that he was able to observe respiratory movements going on while the lantern as a whole remained at rest .
Though he mentions the swinging of the lantern to one side or another , he does not recognise its ambulatory functions .
He dismisses with less than due consideration the observation by Romanes and Ewart referred to above ( p. 84 ) , and states that in the normal medium\#151 ; sea-water\#151 ; an urchin never uses its lantern for progression .
He does not ascribe to protrusion or retraction of the lantern , in themselves , any influence on the filling and emptying of the gills .
The chief difference between the kind of respiration induced by Uexkull in Sphserechinus , and the " forced respiration " of Echinus , is that , in the former , the lantern coelom seems to act by itself as a pulsating chamber to the gills .
In contrast I have to emphasise the fact that in Echinus simple protrusion and retraction of the lantern are associated with sufficient rise 1912 .
] The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
107 and fall of pressure within the whole internal cavity of the urchin to cause swelling and shrinkage of the gills when the walls of the latter are relaxed .
I have not yet had the opportunity of repeating Uexidiirs experiments with due care on Echinus esculentus , but certain considerations make it very doubtful whether similar results would be got .
To begin with , in the Mediterranean species , according to Uexkiill , the gill-walls are flaccid , while the walls of the dental sacs are markedly contractile .
In Echinus , on the contrary , the gill-walls have contractility and tonicity , while the dental sacs are very thin and are only weakly contractile .
Lastly , to judge from Uexktiirs figures , the sub-radial sacculations of the lantern coelom ( which are the portions of this cavity that could be most readily compressed or released from pressure ) reach a greater size in Sphaerechinus than in our Clyde species .
On the whole , therefore , from the structural point of view , the lantern coelom in Echinus does not seem well adapted to serve as an actively pulsating chamber for the rhythmic filling and emptying of the gills .
Effect on Water-vascular System.\#151 ; The internal pressure being lessened with every powerful protrusion of the teeth , any elastic-walled internal cavity which communicates with the exterior will have a tendency to expand .
Should the communication be valved against reflux , turgescence of the cavity will be produced or maintained .
It seems to me that we have here a mechanism which may materially assist the ciliation of the stone canal , \amp ; c. , in keeping up within the ampullae that degree of fullness on which perfect action of the sucker feet must depend .
The point is one which would be difficult to verify by experiment , but it is at least in harmony with the fact that no rigidly shelled Echinoderm without a lantern makes effective use of its podia in locomotion .
Summary .
I. Locomotion out of W%ter.\#151 ; When travelling actively ( p. 93 ) the urchin raises itself from time to time on the tips of its teeth in preparation for a forward " step " ( p. 85 ) .
The step is then accomplished by means of ( a ) strong .
pushing or poling on the part of the lantern ( p. 87 ) ; similar but usually weaker action on the part of the spines ( pp. 87 , 91 ) ; ( c ) the influence of gravity acting at a certain stage ( p. 87 ) .
After each " step " the lantern is retracted and swings forward , so that the teeth come into position ior initiating a new " step " ( p. 86 ) .
Plasticene surfaces may be used with advantage for recording the marks of teeth and spines ( pp. 89 , 90 ) .
The length of each step ranges from to inch , according to size and activity of specimen , and the time required from 15 to 55 seconds ( pp. 92 , 93 ) .
The longest distances travelled are from 12 to 16 inches in 20 minutes , but hardly 108 The Locomotor Function of the Lantern in Echinus .
50 per cent , of the specimens went more than 4 inches in that time ( p. 94 ) .
Active progression by the lantern alone , is possible in small and mediumsized urchins ( p. 91 ) .
Progression by the spines alone is very limited indeed ( p. 91 ) .
An urchin can travel with the help of its lantern even when loaded to the extent of half a pound or more ( p. 90 ) .
There is usually some rotation as well as progression , but the two are not associated as cause and effect ( p. 94 ) .
Rotation is caused by ( a ) screwing action on the part of the lantern and of the spines , and ( b ) defect , inactivity , or unfavourable position of a gioup of spines ( p. 9o ) .
An analysis is given of the lines or curves of progression in relation to rotation ( p. 96 ) .
Other points to which attention is directed are\#151 ; Muscles involved ( p. 87 ) , strength of effort ( p. 90 ) , change of direction ( p. 92 ) , inversion ( p. 93 ) , equatorial section ( p. 93 ) , recording surfaces other than plasticene ( p. 91 ) , the inertia and momentum of the rhythmic action ( p. 94 ) .
XI .
Locomotionundcv Wcctcv.\#151 ; Here the lantern is not needed for ordinary locomotion , particularly over more or less horizontal surfaces ( p. 97 ) .
There are , however , various circumstances , normal and experimental , in which it is employed with effect , as , for example , when the urchins are loaded ( p. 97 ) , or travelling up a slope on certain surfaces ( p. 98 ) , or only partially immersed ( p. 99 ) , or mounting rapidly up a vertical surface ( p. 97 ) .
HI- The locomotor action of the lantern in urchins is a particular manifestation of a rhythmic functional activity which can also subserve feeding ( no doubt the chief function , p. 100 ) .
boring ( p. 101 ) , and " forced respiration , " ( p. 104 ) .
In addition , it possibly aids the swallowing of food ( p. 105 ) , the evacuation of faeces ( TJexkiill ) ( p. 105 ) , and the maintenance of physiological turgescence in various internal cavities ( p. 107 ) .
The gill-walls contain contractile elements ( p. 103 ) which maintain tonicity ( p. 104 ) .
Ordinary gill circulation depends chiefly on the ciliation of the ecelomic lining ( p. 103 ) .
" Forced respiration " occurs in connection with the rhythmic lantern movements , when the muscular tonicity of the gill-walls is relaxed from any cause Filling of the gills then takes place during retraction of the lantern and emptying during protrusion ( pp. 104 , 106 ) .
Experiment shows that during protrusion there is a slight lowering of internal pressure within the shell , affecting both the lantern coelom and the peri-visceral coelom , while during retraction a slight corresponding rise occurs ( p. 105 ) .
UexkiiH 's experiments on Sphcerechinus granularis are noticed ( p. 106 ) .
The illustrations include photographs of tracks left on plasticene by urchins travelling actively out of water ( fig. 4 ) , partly immersed in water ( fig. 8 ) , completely immersed and going uphill ( fig. 7 ) , out of water and carrying a load ( fig. 5 ) , completely immersed and carrying a load ( fig. 6 ) .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
My best thanks are due to Prof. E. W. MacBride for criticism and suggestions .
I have also to express indebtedness to Mr. E. Elmhirst , the Superintendent of the Millport Marine Station , for much care in providing me with material .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
XV.#\#151 ; Urease : a Selective Enzyme .
By Henry E. Armstrong , F.E.S. , and Edward Horton .
( Eeceived January 26 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1912 .
) [ International Catalogue of Scientific .
D 1310 Q 8311 D 1814 Q 1240 \ ( Urea ) .
Hydrolysis by urease ( Soja bean ) , j- Urease ( Soja bean ) .
Action on urea .
] The production of urea from the metameric ammonic cyanate by Wohler , in 1828 , was naturally regarded as an achievement of great importance in view of the part the substance plays in the human economy\#151 ; very nearly the whole of the nitrogen secreted being voided as urea ; the synthesis of such a compound was a severe blow to the vitalistic conceptions which had been dominant in organic chemistry and justly excited attention , as it broke down the barriers up to that time held to be existent between the organic and inorganic world .
The attributes of urea are in many ways remarkable and scarcely in correspondence with the simple formula ordinarily assigned to it .
It is generally spoken of in the text-books as carbamide but its properties are more nearly those of the isomeric hydroxy-amino-iminoAexivaXvfe : an explanation may be found in the assumption that the two isodynamic substances are present in an aqueous solution in oscillatory equilibrium:\#151 ; But it is probable that these two compounds , in turn , are in equilibrium with the hydrate common to both , C(NHa)2(OH)2 : as chemical changes are all reciprocal effects , the behaviour of urea is therefore subject to considerable variation and depends on the conditions under which it is placed ; on this * XIY , \#171 ; Annals of Botany , ' 1911 , vol. 25 , pp. 507\#151 ; 519 .
I\#151 ; XIII , these ' Proceedings , ' Series B.

