Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism .
No. VII , By Lieut. Colonel Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. From the discovery which was made of the non-coincidence of the locality of the maximum magnetic intensity , within the Arctic circle , with that in which the magnetic direction is vertical , it followed that the generally prevailing opinions respecting the distribution of magnetic force at the surface of the earth were erroneous , and that even the broad outline of the picture of ' terrestrial magnetism required to be recast .
For the purpose of obtaining sufficiently copious and accurate materials , by means of which so desirable an object could be accomplished , the British Association for the Advancement of Science requested , in the year 1835 , a report to be prepared , in which the state of our knowledge , collected from a great variety of sources , with regard to the variations of the magnetic force at different parts of the earth 's surface , should be reviewed , and properly discussed , and suggestions offered as to the best neans of extending the inquiry .
In the report so obtained , it was recommended that magnetic surveys of that portion of the North American Continent , which is coniprised within certain isodynamic lines , should be procured .
The present paper contains the results of an expedition towards the accomplishment of this object , recommended by the President and Council of the Royal Society to be undertaken under the auspices and with the assistance of the ; Iudson 's Bay Company .
Lieutenant Lefroy , of the Royal Artillery , who had received an appointment to the Toronto Observatory , with a special view to this survey , was entrusted with the conduct of an expedition in conformity with that recommendation .
The author gives a circumstantial narrative of the expedition , together with minute details of the instruments employed , and the methods of observation adopted ; and extensive tables of the observations themselves , both as regards intensity and inclination , at the different stations where they were made , occupying altogether about 120 folio pages of manuscript .
It results from the calculations founded on the data furnished by these observations , that the geographical position of ' the point of maximum intensity , where its amount is 1'88 , is 52ยง 19'"3 north latitude , and 268 ?
01 ' longitude .
The angle which the major axis of the ellipse makes with the parallel of geographical latitude is 57ยง 495 ; and the values of the semi-axes of the ellipse of ' 1'875 are 290 and 110 geographical miles respectively .

