546 Letter to the President .
[ Feb. 15 , III .
" Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun.\#151 ; No. V " By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received January 10 , 1877 .
The author submits to the Royal Society the first portion of a new map of the solar spectrum , w.l. 39-40 ten millionths , constructed after the manner described in a previous " Preliminary Note .
" Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for We have the honour to inform you of the establishment of a Scientific Club , under the presidency of His Excellency Dr. A. Ritter von Schmer-ling , and to request you to do us the favour of communicating the fact to the Fellows of the Royal Society . .
We beg to invite the Fellows of the Royal Society to make use of this Club during their occasional stay in Vienna , either as guests or as foreign members .
We have the honour to subscribe ourselves , on behalf of the Club , ( Abstract .
) February 15 , 1877 .
them .
The President read the following letter To the President of the Royal Society , London .
Tours obediently , The Vice-Presidents Vienna , Feb. 1877 .
Club and Office : 1 .
Eschenbach-Grasse , No. 9 , 1st floor .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1877 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
1 .
" On Stratified Discharges.\#151 ; III .
On a Rapid Contact-Breaker , and the Phenomena of the Flow .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 9 , 1877 .
In a paper published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xxiii .
p. 455 , I have described a form of contact-breaker designed for great rapidity and steadiness of action .
It consisted of a steel rod which vibrated under the action of an electromagnet .
As regards sharpness of break and steadiness of definition in the striae , this instrument left little or nothing to be desired .
But , as explained in the paper above quoted , an alteration in the current not only affected the steadiness directly , but also reacted on the break itself .
The effects due to an alteration of the current alone thereby became masked , and the study of the laws relating to such changes was rendered more difficult , or altogether impracticable .
In order to obviate this inconvenience I devised another form of contact-breaker , in which the vibrating rod and electromagnet were replaced by an arrangement purely mechanical in its action , and therefore entirely under control .
This instrument consists essentially of a wheel platinized at the edge , on which a platinum spring rests .
In the circumference of the wheel a number ( 40 in the first instance ) of slots were cut , and filled " with ebonite plugs so as to interrupt the current .
The breadth of the slots was about *04 inch , and that of the teeth about *5 inch .
The wheel was connected with suitable driving gear , so as to give from 250 to 2000 currents from the coil in each direction per second .
A 4-inch coil was found sufficient to produce the effects ; but the 18-inch coil by Apps , mentioned in former communications , was preferable .
With the wheel , as with the electromagnetic break , a very slight strength of current was required ; but , on the other hand , high tension in the primary was found necessary .
In many of the experiments accordingly from 10 to 20 of the smallest Leclanche cells usually made were employed with the small , and from 20 to 50 with the large coil .
But these were afterwards replaced by a double fluid battery suggested by my assistant , Mr. P. Ward , and described at the end of this communication .
For some time the experiments were conducted with the ' platinum spring resting on the wheel ; and the effects were varied by altering either the pressure of the spring or the velocity of the wheel ; but the gradual abrasion of the platinum through friction proved to be a fruitful source of irregular results .
This irregularity of action , at all times difficult to compensate , and sometimes insuperable , was fortunately removed by a simple although delicate adjustment .
It was , in fact , found that actual metallic contact between the spring and wheel was not necessary , provided that a layer or cushion of conducting material were interposed .
Such a layer was formed by a thin film of liquid drawn out by a thread leading from a reservoir and resting on the wheel .
Various fluids were vol. xxv .
2 R 548 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ Feb. 15 , tried ; but the simplest , and on the whole the best , proved to be dilute sulphuric acid , in the proportion of 1 drop of acid to 6 drams of water .
Generally speaking the better conductor the fluid is , the better are the results obtained ; but , owing to th# insulating slots being very narrow in this instance , a comparatively weak mixture of acid and water was necessary .
In one wheel , where the insulating slots are \ in .
wide , a mixture 36 times as strong may as advantageously be used .
The spring , which under these circumstances became unnecessary , was replaced by a point , the adjustment of whose distance from the wheel was simpler and more accurate .
This arrangement gave excellent results , even when the number of currents per second was reduced in some cases to 250 ; added to which the unpleasant and disturbing noise of the friction was entirely avoided .
Wheels having different numbers of teeth were also constructed , and ( what was perhaps of more importance ) having teeth of different breadths , so as to give with the same velocity of rotation contacts of different duration .
The breadth of the ebonite plugs , or length of interruption of the current , was immaterial , so long as the current was efficiently broken .
It did not appear , however , that with the same tube more could be obtained with wheels having different numbers of teeth , than with the same wheel at different speeds .
But it was found that for different tubes different wheels occasionally gave better results .
With the contact-breaker here described effects similar to those produced by the rapidly vibrating break were obtained .
The striae were formed in a regular manner , and advanced or receded , or remained at rest , in a column usually unbroken , so long as the velocity of the wheel was maintained without change ; and even in the longer tubes , where the striae , of the double discharge , advanced or receded towards both ends at the same time , and appeared sometimes compressed and at others dilated , the phenomena always maintained their characteristic features .
The condition of the striae here described , whether flowing or stationary , may be comprised under the general term " steadyand when there is no motion in either direction , they may be specifically denominated as ** stationary .
" Two questions here presented themselves :\#151 ; -First , what are the conditions necessary for the production of steady striae ?
Secondly , what are the conditions and circumstances of the advance and retreat , in other words , of the flow of steady striae ?
With a view of ascertaining the nature of the distinction between the ordinary and the steady striae , careful observations were made with the revolving mirror .
It having been noticed that when the wheel break moved slowly ordinary or irregular striae were produced , and that when it moved rapidly steady striae resulted , it seemed probable that the latter effect might be due to the short time of contact , and to the consequent absence of many of the features described in Part II .
of these researches .
1877 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified .
549 This is , in fact , identical with the suggestion there made , that the fluttering appearance was due to the unequal duration of the striae themselves , and to the irregular positions of the points at which they were renewed at successive discharges of the coil .
And such , in fact , proved to be the case ; for as the speed of the wheel was increased the duration of the discharges diminished ; the image as seen in the mirror became narrower and simpler in its configuration , until , when the steady effect was produced , each discharge showed only a single column of striae of a width proportional to the apparent width of the slit .
The proper motion , implied by the inclination of the individual striae to the vertical , was still perceptible , and was directed , as usual , towards the negative pole .
Erom a comparison of the number of striae as seen by the eye with those seen in the revolving mirror , it was found that the striae so formed were of the kind called " simple " in former communications .
And the phenomena of the flow may therefore be considered to be due to the different positions taken up by the striae in successive discharges .
If in each discharge the striae occupy positions in advance of those occupied in a previous discharge , the column will appear to advance ; if the reverse be the case , they will appear to recede .
If the positions remain unchanged , the column will appear stationary .
The following consequence of this explanation of the flow will leadily occur to the reader , viz. that the rapidity of the flow will increase with the extent of advance made by the striae in each successive discharge , until that advance amounts to half the distance between two contiguous striae .
Before this is attained the flow will have become too rapid to be followed by the unassisted eye , and can only be observed by the aid of the mirror .
When this rate of advance has been exceeded , the flow will appear to be reversed .
If the rate of advance still continues to increase , the rapidity in the reverse direction will appear to decrease until the advance amounts to the entire distance between two contiguous striae , when it will apparently be reduced to zero ; the striae will then again appear stationary .
Experiments appear to confirm this view of the case .
Experiments were next instituted with a view of ascertaining the connexion between the flow and resistance .
Starting from a condition of current and break for which the striae were stationary , it was found that an increase of resistance , introduced generally in the primary circuit , produced a forward flow , i. e.from the positive towards the negative terminal , while under similar circumstances a decrease of resistance produced a backward flow .
Furthermore , if after producing a forward flow the resistance be continually increased , the flow after increasing in rapidity so as to become indistinguishable by the unassisted eye , gradually appears to become slower , and ultimately to reverse itself , in accordance with the law suggested above .
Another form of contact-breaker was also occasionally used .
The principle upon which it was based was the sudden disruption of a thin 2 b 2 550 Lymphatics and their Origin in Muscular Tissues .
[ Feb. 15 , film of conducting liquid by a discharge between the electrodes of a circuit .
The mode of effecting this was to make one electrode terminate in a platinum plate fixed in a horizontal position , and supplied with a uniform film of dilute sulphuric acid ; the other in a platinum point , the distance of which from the plate is capable of delicate adjustment by means of a screw .
Electromotive force required for this break is not less than that of 5 cells of Grove .
As soon as the current passes , the fluid between the plate and point will be decomposed and electrical continuity broken .
This done , the fluid flows back again , and continuity is restored .
By a proper adjustment of the supply of fluid and of the distance of the electrodes ( the latter varying from '05 inch to *001 inch ) , the number of disruptions may be made to attain 1000 per second .
The currents delivered by this form of break are exceedingly uniform , and the effects produced are quite equal in delicacy to those produced by the electromagnetic or by the wheel break .
The elements used in the battery to which allusion was made in the early part of this paper are zinc and carbon .
The zinc is immersed in dilute sulphuric acid in the proportions of .
1 volume of acid to 7 of water ; and the carbon in a saturated solution of bichromate of potash With 1 volume of sulphuric acid to 7 of the solution .
The carbon and bichromate solution are held in a porous cell .
The absence of nitric acid permits this battery to be used in a room ; while the fact that the zinc is attacked only when the circuit is complete , renders it unnecessary to lift the plates out of the fluid when not in use , as in the bichromate battery .
The only limit to the time during which this battery may be left untouched , appears to be the period when the bichromate salt finds its way into the outer cell , so as to attack the zinc independently of electrical action .
But this does not take place to an extent materially to affect the action for some months .
II .
" Lymphatics and their Origin in Muscular Tissues .
" By George Hoggan , M.B. , and Frances Elizabeth Hoggan , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Billing , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1877 .
The authors announce that they have discovered the long-looked-for lymphatics of striated muscle , and describe them as radicles , valveless reservoirs , and waived efferent vessels .
While describing their structure and relations , they point out that the reservoirs are found on one plane or side of a muscle ; the valved efferents are found on the other side , as , for example , in the case of the diaphragm , transversalis abdominis , and triangularis sterni muscles .
In connexion with this , they have discovered

