]\gt ; [ 365 ] XI .
New of the Equivalent of Heat .
JAMES PRESCOTT JOULE , D. C.L. , LL. D. , F.R. .
L. ) \amp ; .
, President of the Literary and Society of Received November 15 , 1877 , \mdash ; Read January 24 , 1878 .
[ PLATH : 26 .
] THE Committee of the British Association on Standards of Electrical Resistance having judged it desirable that a fresh determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat should be made , by observing the thermal effects due to the transmission of electrical currents through resistan measured by the unit they had issued , I undertook experiments with that view , resulting in a larger figure ) than that which I had obtained from the friction of fluids The only way to account for this discrepancy was to admit the existence of error , either in my thermal experiments or in the unit of resistance .
A committee , consisting of Sir WM .
THOMSON , Professor P. G. TAIT , Professor CLECRK MAXWELL , Professor B. STEWART , and myself , were appointed at the meeting of the British Association in 1870 ; and with the funds thus placed at my disposal I was charged with the present investigation , for the purpose of giving greater accuracy to the results of the direct method .
The plan I adopted was , in regard to the measurement of work , similar ( as I afterwards found ) to that used by HIRN , who has laboured so earnestly and successfully on this subject .
He has described it as follows:\mdash ; " " qui m'a servi pour cette etude consiste : , en un cylindre en laiton de de diametre , de 1m de longeur , poli a sa peripherie externe , monte sir un axe solide en rapport avec un moteur d'un mouvement tres regulier , et pouvant recevoir u1le vitesse variant a volonte de 60 a par minute ; , en un cylindre fix , poli a son interieur , concentrique au premier , eloigne partout de de celui-ci .
Les disques ou plateaux formant les extremites de la cylindre etaient munis , a leur party centrale , de boites a etoupes par ou sortait l'axe du cylindre intern .
Tout ] ' entre les deux cylindres pouvait etre rempli ainsi d'un liquid quelconque que les boites etoupes echaient de s'ecouler par les centres .
" " Lorsque le cylindre interieur tournait , le frottement que sa surface externe exercait sir le liquid , et que le liquid , mis ainsi en mouvement -meme , exerqait * Brit. Assoc. Report , Dundee , 186 ) Phil. Trans. , , p. 82 .
son tour sir la surface intern du cylindre externe , tendait a fair tourner celui-ci .
Deux leviers parfaitement paralleles , adaptes aux deux extremites , et portant des de balance , permettaient echer la rotation a l'aide de poids qui indiquaient ainsi la valeur du frottement .
La tare des leviers , la valeur du frottement des boites a etoupes , etc. , etaient determinees aisement en faisant tourner tres lentement le cylindre intern dans les deux sens alternativement .
Deux tuyaux verticaux , soudes aux deux disques de fermeture , et aussi pres que possible des boites a etoupes , permettaient d'etablir dans l'appareil un courant continu et parfaitement regulier d'un liquid voulu .
temperature de ce liquid etait prise a l'entree et a la sortie .
Autant que possible , la temperature a l'entree etait tenue a autant de degres audessous de celle de l'appartement que celle du liquid sortant etait superieure .
Du rest , la loi de refroidissement de l'appareil etait soigneusement determinee de maniere a ce qu'il fut facile de fair les corrections necessaires .
" " Cet appareil , qui dans son ensemble constitue un veritable balance a frottement des liquides , pouvait tres aisement servir a fair connaitre , d'une part , le travail depense pour tel ou tel liquid , pour tell ou tell vitesse , et d'autre part , a l'aide des corrections convenables , a fair comlaitre le nombre de calories produit par ce frottement dans un liquid dont la capacite calorifique etait connue .
" " Les resultats obtenus ont ete en general d'une regularite satisfaisante .
Six experiences consecutives faites sir l'eau , et avec differentes vitesses , avec des quantites diverses de liquid introduites par second entre les deux tambours , m'ont donne pour le travail produisant un calorie , et par suite pour la valeur de l'equivalent.\ldquo ; The method I adopted was to evolve a paddle in a suspended vessel of water , to find the heat thereby produced , measuring the work by the force required to hold the vessel from turning , and the distance run as referred to the point at which the force was applied .
Fig. 1 represents the apparatus drawn one-eighteenth the actual size .
A massive wooden framework , , resting on the asphalted floor of a cellar , is still further strenghened by means of timber abutting against the walls on every side .
The shaft is supported by a conical collar turned on it at .
It is revolved , along with the fly-wheel , weighing about 1 , by means of the doubling hand wheels , .
A counterS is placed at , for the purpose of reading off the number of revolutions .
The calorimeter has an accurately turned groove , from which silk threads pass over the light , accurately-turned pulleys jj , to the scales .
The * This in the measures I have adopted , viz. , British feet , and degrees Fahr. 'Theoxie Mecanique de la Chaleur , ' p. 55 .
Maxwell has independently , in 1875 , devised an apparatus of a similar description .
He employs channelled cones , the revolution on a vertical axis .
Its surface , though only half a square inch , was found amply sufficient when castor-oil was employed as the lubricator .
Other oils failed on S In most of the experunents a second counter of my own construction was used to check the indications of the other .
They were found in every instance to agree exactly .
OF THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT hydraulic supporter , , was not employed in the first two series of experiments , and will be described further on .
Three sides of the frame are boxed in ently ; the fourth , or front , has shutters with windows which can be removed at pleasure .
delicate thermometer , suspended within the frame , is observed through a telescope , as is also the thermometer employed in reading the temperature of the calorimeter .
Fig. 2 represents the section of the calorimeter , with its paddle , all of stout sheet brass ; and fig. 3 gives a plan of the same .
The dotted lines in the latter show the position of the fans in the upper part .
The axle of the paddle works easily in the collar , and is screwed into the boxwood piece .
There is another boxwood piece , , fig. 1 , placed to prevent any considerable quantity of heat arising from the friction of the shaft being conducted downwards .
This friction was , however , so small that the precaution was afterwards found to be needless .
It will be seen in figs. 2 and that there are four stationary vanes in the meter , and two sets of rotating vanes , each of five arms , the upper set being fixed on the axis behind the lower set .
Hence no two vanes pass the fixed ones at the same moment , and inasmuch as the momentary alteration of resistance at crossing takes place 40 times in each revolution the ance may be considered as practically uniform .
The circumference of the groove of the calorimeter was found by measuring its diameter in various places , and also by measuring it directly with a fine wire , allowing for the thickness of the latter .
The results , obtained with a rule verified by the Warden of Standards , are\mdash ; Diameter in inches .
Circumference .
Measured by wlire in .
meter Average . . . . . .
inches ) feet .
The diameter of the silk cord , which was the finest that could be used with safety , was exactly inch .
Hence the distance to be considered as run against the weights of the scales was , for each revolution , feet .
When a silk thread with a weight of 11,000 graius at each extremity was thrown over the small pulleys , 30 added to one of the weights was sufficient to keep both in motion .
This friction , which includes the rigidity of the silk cord , taken with the distance traversed by the weights in their slight upward and downward motions during an experimenr , gives the loss of work on the calorimeter from cause .
It did not amount to more than oo subtractive from the equivalent , and could therefore be neglected .
The thermometer used to indicate the temperature of the calorimeter was the same which I employed my ) rmer experiments .
Those designated and were calibrated with reat- care .
I have recently compared them together at 50 different temperatures between and Fahr. , the result being that if the less sensitive was assumed to be correct , the other , or , nowhere appeared more than in error ; but taking the averages for each consecutive this error amounted to no more than .
I was anxious to compare these instruments with an air-pressure thermometer , and with that view have constructed an apparatus in which the height of the mercurial column is measured by a plummet hung over the axis of a graduated wheel , a method which I find capable of extreme accuracy , and which I purpose to apply to the construction of a new barometer .
But owing to the use of caoutchouc in the connexion between the receiver and the rest of the apparatus , I fear that the zero point was subject to a slight displacement .
The figures at which , after much labour , I have hitherto arrived , could not therefore be accepted as any improyement on REGNAULT'S determinations of the expansion of air by heat .
The freezing-point of the standard had risen from divisions of its scale in 1844 to in 1877 .
I think it probable that the boiling-point of this thermo- meter , if kept constantly at this temperature , would in the course of time fall as much .
The five careful determinations of this boiling-point referred to 30 bar .
and are respectively 706 , , 706 , , and ) \mdash ; mean .
Subtracting will be the probable ultimate reading , from which if we take we shall have as the range between the fixed points cleared from the effects of imperfect of the glass .
Mr. E. HODGKINSON has pointed out that the " " set\ldquo ; of imperfectly elastic bodies is proportional to the square of the force applied .
Therefore the effect of imperfect elasticity in the glass of the thermometers will be insensible for the small ranges used in the experiments , and the factor for reducing the indications of to those of A may be confidently relied on .
We have therefore as the most probable value of one division of A. In my former papers the number was taken as , which is so near that I shall continue to use it , trusting by long-continued observations of the fixed points to give it ultimately greater accuracy , and also by experiments above indicated to state it in terms of the absolute interval between these points .
The elevation of the mercurial column in A caused by the atmospheric pressure is five divisions , but inasmuch as in the limited time of an experiment the barometer never altered inch , error from this cause was neglected .
The depression occasioned by capillarity was of a division .
A delicate calibrated thermometer , each division of which indicated , was first used for taking the temperature of the air ; but in consequence of a slight hitch * Phil. Trans. , 1850 , p. 64 . .
Assoc. Report , 1848 , p. OF THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT .
in the motion of the mercury , an instrument called was afterwards employed , each of whose was equal to In registering the temperature of the air surrounding the calorimeter it was necessary to make allowance for the time which a thermometer takes in altering its temperature .
I found that in a regularly rising or falling temperature was behind time , and .
This lagging of the thermometers was always carefully allowed for .
The capacity for heat of the calorimeter , calculated from the specific heat of brass given by REGNAULT , was equal to that of 5002 of water .
But REGNAULT has shown how considerably the specific heat of metals of the same chemical composition is altered by changes in their hardness , and moreover there were the stoppers and other adjuncts to be taken into account .
I erefore constructed the special apparatus represented by fig. 4 , where is a wooden box containing the calorimeter ; the projecting rim of the latter being supported by bits of string fastened at the top of three wooden legs , one of which is shown in fig. 5 .
In the lid of the box are three holes which the tubulures of the calorimeter just enter without touching .
The paddle of the calorimeter can be agitated by means of the boxwood piece is a copper vessel covered with a non-conducting substance : its lid is perforated to admit a stirrer , a thermometer , and a rod furnished with a caoutchouc stopper .
In experimenting with this apparatus , the calorimeter was first weighed after the water which it might have contained was shaken out .
It was then placed on its three supports , and left for three or more hours in an apartment of uniform temperature , until its thermometer ceased to show alteration .
The vessel , containing an adjusted quantity of hot distilled water , and placed at some distance , had its gradually descending temperature noted from minute to minute .
At a given moment it was rapidly transferred to the position shown in the figure ; and then on pulling the plug out , was filled in a few seconds .
was then quickly removed , and the caoutchouc stopper belonging to the tubulure through which the water had entered having been replaced , the temperature of the water was noted again from minute to minute while was constantly moved .
These observations afforded the means of eliminating the effects of radiation .
Finally the calorimeter , as filled with the water , was weighed .
In the first half of the following Table , A was employed in determining the temperature of the water introduced into the calorimeter , ?
was the thermometer plunged into the calorimeter .
In the latter half their positions were reversed .
The temperatures are all given in divisions of A. includes the estimated value of the air displaced , reckoned at 8 grains of water .
EXPERIMENTS on Capacity for Heat of Calorimeter .
read.ritins opoured i poured in .
rlhe average temperatures and are and .
Hence in order to express the foregoing result in terms of the capacity of a grain of water at , we have , the of .
Two further corrections were needed , one amounting , as was ascertained by means of experiments devlsed for the purpose , to , on account of the time allowed before the final reading of limited to , not being sufficient to enable the caoutchouc stoppers and boxwood to receive yhat would be their ultimate thermad distribution ; the other , OF THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT .
amounting to , arose from the thermal effect of the fall of water from one vessel to the other .
Hence the final result for the capacity of the calorimeter , appendages , and thermometer , is I thought it desirable to test this result by obtaining he sum of the capacities of the materials which composed the calorimeter .
I had in my possession cuttings from the same sheets of brass that were used in the manufacture of the vessel and its paddle .
These were formed into a compact bundle .
A copper vessel , ( fig. 6 ) , filled with water , had a narrower vessel , , immersed in it , to the bottom of which the material experimented on was let down by a fine wire .
A Bunsen burner , , kept the water at a constant temperature for not less than three hours , a continual itation being given by revolving the stirrer , formed on the principle of a screw propeller .
The temperature having been noted , the material was rapidly lifted by the thin wire , and transferred to a small copper vessel , , filled with distilled water , and furnished with a thermometer and stirrer .
, which time was required for the equal distribution of temperature , the immersed thermometer was read off , and its observation was repeated each succeeding minute for some time , in order to obtain the cooling effect of the atmosphere .
The following is a table of the results .
The weight of the bundle of brass was grains .
method first employed was the opposite one of the material at tlJe a temperature into a small vessel filled with hot water , and observing the temperature of mixture .
The following specific heats were obtained by that method with brass and copper:\mdash ; Brass .
Copper .
Averages 09197 The wide discrepancy between the several results is owing to the great effect of the atmosphcre the small vessel , an absolute uniformity of stirring in order to give temperatures .
Average { From the above we may estimate the correction arising from the time of transfer in the first seven experiments at 00023 , which , added to 09024 , gives 09047 for the specific heat of brass at compared with water at RHjGNAULT , in two trials , arrived at 0939 , but this appears to be in leference to water taken as .
When reduced to water taken as unity it becomes09315 , which still differs considerably from my result .
The method of cooling used by REGNAULT in this instance does not appear to me to be capable of as great accuracy as the method of mixtures used by the same physicist for other substances .
The interest I felt in this part of my subject induced me to try some experiments of a similar nature with copper sheet .
It was tied in a bundle like the brass .
Its weight was grains .
OF THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT .
In the seven average time of transfer is and the proximate specific heat 0.091497 .
In the ] three we have and .
From these the specific heat of the sheet copper at is determined at The boxwood piece / , had a brass nut in its centre by which it was screwed on the axle of the brass stirrer .
Bein a bad conductor , and having nearly the whole of its surface in contact with the air , only a small portion of its capacity for heat could be counted in the whole capacity of the calorimeter .
I determined this portion by ascertaining the heat communicated to a can of water when the boxwood piece was immersed in it after having been screwed on the calorimeter filled with hot water , for different periods of time .
Calling the rence between the temperatures of the air and the calorimeter , the gain of temperature in the small can the capacity of this can of water , and the modified or virtual capacity of the boxwood piece , we have .
The following results were obtained showing the gradual approach of this virtual capacity to a certain limit:\mdash ; Time that the boxwood Virtual screwed on the calorimeter .
capacity . . . . .
45.6 . . . . .
57.5 . . . . .
63.9 . . . . . . . . . .
76.0 The virtual capacity of the caoutchouc stoppers was determined in the same manner\mdash ; Time .
Capacity .
15.35 . . . . .
21.8 . . . .
27.45 The several capacities making up that of the calorimeter are therefore summed as follows Brass , 51979 grains Caoutchouc stoppers . . .
Boxwood piece . . . . .
7600 Thermometer . . . . .
Total . . . .
I had , therefore , great confidence in employing the value , obtained , as already described , from experiments with the calorimeter itself *The specific heat of boxw.ood , which I obtained by immersion in mercury , of the caoutchouc , In making an experiment for the equivalent the weight of the calorimeter fitled with distilled water was first carefully ascertained .
It was then screwed on to the axis , and the fine silk cords attached to the scales , , fig. 1 , were adjusted .
Thermometer A was then introduced into one of the tubulures , and after sufficient agitation of the water by means of the paddle itself , its indication was observed through a telescope .
The thermometer was then removed and a caoutchouc stopper placed in the tubulure .
The axle was then brought rapidly up to the velocity which produced friction sufficient to raise the weights about a foot from the ground .
My son , Mr. B. A. JOULE , who turned the wheel , could , by observing the position of the scales in a mirror , keep them very steadily at a constant height during the whole time of revolution .
The wheel having been rapidly brought to a standstill , the temperature of the calorimeter was again ascertained .
In the experiments in Table I. the number of revolutions of the axis when the weights were off the ground was added to half the number occupied in the acts of starting from rest and returning to rest .
Previously to , and subsequently to , every such experiment others were made under similar conditions as to the observation of temperatures , \amp ; c. , in order to ascertain the effect of the atmosphere on the temperature of the calorimeter .
The indications of the thermometer for temperature of air are always reduced to the graduation of thermometer A. Experience had already shown me that the thermal effect of the air on the calorimeter was not exactly proportional to the difference of their temperatures .
This might arise from variations in the radiating powers of brass and glass from day to day .
By making experiments for the air-effect immediately before and after one for the equivalent , I sought to neutralize any error arising from this circumstance .
The last column but one of the first part of the following Tables gives the amount of correction required to be applied to the temperature of the air so as to make the effect proportional to the difference of temperatures .
The figures in the last two columns are then used for calculating the corrected rise of temperature in the last but one of Part 2 of the Tables .
OF THIC CHANICAL hQUIVALENT OF HEAT .
TABLE I. , Part l.\mdash ; Experiments to ascertain the Effect of tion , \amp ; c. Time occupied by each of the first fifteen , ; by the last two , and orimeter.mperature.etem.rence o CCCLXXVlII .
DR. J. P. ON A DETERMINATION TABLE I. , Part 2 .
\mdash ; Experiments with Friction of Water and Brass . .
Weight , , lifted in the first fifteen , grains ; in the last two , grains .
Average proportion of metallic to total friction , .
Time occupied by each of the first ffiteen , ; by the last two , and .
Value , or V , of one division of the .
Circumference of groove of calorimeter , feet .
The mean temperature of the atmosphere was derived from observations taken from minute to minute , but there were only two readings of the temperature of the calorimeter , viz. , at the commencement and termination of an experiment , from which to determine its average temperature .
oSuppose , fig. 7 , to represent the line of air temperatures during an experiment lasting : the temperatures of the calorimeter will be epresented by a line similar to .
The wheel was set in motion after the first reading was taken .
The temperature then rose until , at , the wheel was stopped .
The temperature then declined slightly , until , at , the last reading was taken .
The line is slightly curved ; a few seconds are occupied in starting and stopping the wheel , and the thermometer reads a little backwards .
Taking all these circumstances mto account , I found that the average temperature for the whole time was very accurately represented by .
The mean temperature of the calorimeter for other times of experiment was estimated in a similar manner .
To obtain the co1Tected rise of temperature in the last column but one , the correction to the air temperature indicated in the first part of the Table was supplied .
instance , in the first experiment the temperatul .
of the air OF THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT .
virtuaHy lower than that of the calorimeter .
Hence , which , added to , gives the value for TABLE II .
, Part l.\mdash ; Experiments to ascertain the Effect of Radiation , \amp ; c. Time occupied by each experiment , .
Weight raised for an instant , grains .
Difference .
5 160\mdash ; cameter , effec .
.3 :378 DR. J. P. JOULE ON A RMTNATION TABLE II .
, Part 2.\mdash ; Experiments with Friction of Water and Brass .
Weight , lifted , grains .
Average proportion of metallic to total friction , .
Time occupied by each experiment , ; Instead of reckoning one-half of the revolutions .
which took place in the acts of starting and stopping the wheel , as was done in the case of Table I. , I have eliminated them in the last and subsequent Tables by starting the wheel till the scales were raised for an instant and then immediately stopped it at some period in each experiment for determining radiation .
The tions called in the iirst part of the Table being subtracted from the revolutions called in the second part , give the numbers used in calculating equivalent .
This latter plan obviated some slight error to which the former method was possibly liable .
The irregularities in the values of arise from the variations from time to time in the friction of the bearing which supports the calorimeter on the axis .
In the subsequent experiments I adopted a method which removed nearly the whole of the metallic friction .
In fig. 1 , and ' represent two concentric vessels .
The inner one has a lid surmounted by three uprights , such as that represented by fig. 5 .
When water is poured into the space between the vessels , the uprights are raised so as to press against the bottom rim of the calorimeter , thus relieving its weight on the axis .
The arrangement was eminently successful in producing an almost absolute uniformity of motion .
OF THE OF AT .
TABLII IIT .
, Part l.\mdash ; Experiments to ascertain the Effect of , \amp ; c. Tinue occupied by each experiment , .
Weight raised for an instant , \ldquo ; III .
, Part 2.\mdash ; Experiments with almost solely Friction of Water .
Weight , lifted , grains .
Average proportion of metallic to total friction , .
Time occupied by each experiment , An error of four or five seconds in the time at which the wheel was started and stopped will account for the divergence of the revolubions in Nos. 1 and 7 from the average .
For the rest , it will be seen with what great constancy the resistance of the paddle was kept up .
The weights were also so steady that the total distance run by them in their risings and fallings only amounted to about 30 feet in each experiment .
This , taken with the friction of the pulleys grains , gives a quantity to be subtracted from the equivalent too small to require estimation .
OF THE MECHANICAL OF TABLE IV .
, Part 1.\mdash ; Experiments to ascertain the Effect of Radiation , \amp ; c. Time occupied by each experiment , .
Weight raised for an instant , grains .
TABLE IV .
, Part 2.\mdash ; Experiments with almost solely Friction of Water .
Weight , lifted , grains .
Average proportion of metallic to total friction , .
Time occupied by each experiment , ; It will be obvious that , in the experiments of the above Table , where the heat evolved was able to raise the temperature of the calorimeter little more than , great accuracy could not be expected without taking the average of a very large number of observations .
In fact , the degree of accuracy will increase nearly with the square of the rise of temperature per unit of time , and the square root of the number of observations .
*I.e .
, supposiug tho " " Dilfereuce{ ting the air with the of TABLE V. , Part 1.\mdash ; Experiments to ascertain the Effect of Radiation , \amp ; c. Time occupied by each experiment , .
Weight raised an instant , grains .
ABLE y , Part Experiments with almost solely Friction of Water .
Weight , lifted , grains .
Average proportion of to total friction , Time occupied by each experiment , Numb.fAverage .
The average number of revolutions per minute in the last two tables were 1014 and .
The flnid resistances , 76302 and 21548.5 , were therefore almost exactly proportional to the squares of the velocities .
OF THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT .
S8.3 The foregoing results are collected in the following Table:\mdash ; The average of the ffist two gives as the equivalent at a temperature of the calorimeter ; but inasmuch as the metallic friction is as much as of the whole , I prefer to use the last three , and to give each its due weight I will multiply the squares of the rise by the square root of the number of determinations:\mdash ; For the series For the series For the series Then\mdash ; is the equivalent at ; or , using REGNAULT'S law of the increase of the specific heat of water with its temperature , at The latitude of the part of Higher Broughton , Manchester , where the experiments were made , is , N. ; its elevation bout 1 feet above the sea level .
The equivalent at the sea level and the latitude at Greenwich will therefore be foot lbs. , defining the unit of heat to be that which a lb. of water , weighed by brass weights when the barometer stands at 30 , receives in passing from to Fah .
With water weighed in vacuo the equivalent is finally reduced to

