]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
TOWNSBND , John S.\mdash ; The Diffusion of Ions produced in Air by the Action of a Radio-active Substance , Ultra-Violet Light , and Point Discharges .
Phil. , vol. 195 , , pp. 259-278 .
Diffusion of fons , produced by Radio.active Substance , Ultra 7iolet Li ht Point Discharges .
owNSBND , John S. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 195 , 1900 , pp. 259-278 .
Ione , Effect of Pressure on Rate of Diifusion of .
TOWNSIIND , John S. Phil. Trans. , vol. , pp. VII .
of Ions produced in by Action of Radio-active ) stance , Ultriolet Light and Point Disch ; JOHN S. , M. A. , -flIax prdl Stndent , Fellow of Trinity by J. J. THOMSON , F. nllc 1 , 1900 .
ethod of finding of ions into been ribed in a previous ) account was there give of the results obtained with produced by ltontge ] .
The present gives the esults obtained with ions ) odnced by radio-active substal , by point by violet light .
) inciple the method consists in ting the rate of diftusiol1 from tions on the loss of conductivity of gras it sses c , metal tubing .
The experiments were anged so that the loss due to should be much greater than the loss due to other uses .
In order to ensure this , two eflects which must be considered in ( , the dimensions of the bination which occurs when there are botb positive and negative ionS present in the ; and the effect due to the mutual repulsion of the ions which takes place when most of the ions with electricity of .
It is therefore necessa1y either to correct for these sources of error or to the ) nditiol l ) the experiments so that the loss of conductivity due to these uses i ; negligible .
The present paper is divided into five sections .
section contains investigation of the relative importance of the Psion , tion , nutual r causingr loss of co1lductivity .
The descriptions of ) ) and the results of experiments made on ions } radio-active substance , ultra-violet light , by point , are given in Sections II .
, Ill. , and IV .
respectively .
The conclusions to be drawn the eriments clre discussed in Section V. SECTION I. In the previous paper we have shown that when a number of ions , , are distributed throughout a gas , , which is elltering metal tubing , the ratio It , of the iJoIlN i , ' Phil. , vol. 19 1899 , 1 ) .
8 .
1 NSEND O THE DIFFUSION OF IONS PRODUChD number of ions which come the tube without the sides to the uulnber which enter is\mdash ; .
( 1 ) , is coefficient of diffusion of the ions into the gas , the length of tube , its radius , the mean velocity of the gas , , along the tube .
; value of 11 is ined on the supposition that the velocity , , of the gas , , at a distance the axis of the tube is given by the formula Let and be the values of equation ( 1 ) corresponding to lengths and then is the ratio of the number of ions which come through tubes of lengths and the same ibution entering each .
The ratio can be easily determined experimentally , the value of can be found from the formula\mdash ; . . . . .
if the loss of conductivity arises principally from diHusion .
Before we proceed to estimate the loss due to recombination or mutual repulsion , may here point out the advantages of having a small density of ionisation , and of using tubing of small bore .
The ratio , equation ( 2 ) , is independent of the number of ions used .
It shows that the proportion of ions which are lost in passing through the tube is the same for and small conductivities .
When reduction in conductivity is caused tion o mutual epulsion , this law no longer holds .
In both these cases the bsolute loss is proportional to the square of the nunlber present , so that portion of ions lost is proportional to the density of ionisation .
The ratio , , is a function of , when ) is Let be a value of which gives the yalue of ?
between 3 and 6 that can be found accurately by .
If the mean time , which the gas is in the longer tube be given , the radius call be selected so as to make C. In dealing the COl.rections to be applied to ?
/ , we need only to consider the effect of recombination or mutual ) nlsion in the longer ) .
In the apparatus which was used , centim. The processes which give rise to errors take place during the time , and the rate at which they destroy the conductivity is independent of the radius of tubing .
The errors therefore arising from either of the lich we are considering can be reduced to any extent by reducing the density of ionisation , or reducing the bore of the tubing .
combine Among the methods of pl'oducing conductivity with which we are deaJing , it is only in the case of ionis tion by the radio-active substance that both BY ACTION A ) IO-ACTIV ] positive negative ions ) simultaneously in the .
From the results of expel.ilnents on diflusion , we } led to conclude the ions thus ) esemble very closely those produced by Rontgen , and the same .
We will therefore assume that the laws governing the will not be much in the two cases .
The method of finding the correction ) ) explained in the ) revious It was there shown that for tivitieH the loss due to inatio was bout 4 per cent. of the losf$ due to diflnsion to sides .
The time , , in the nents made with Rontgen was ) second , the dius of the tubing being millims. A new appar tus was made with finel tubing millim so that without , the value of is to .
The number , , of ions which recombine is similarly educed f to The radio-active substance was contained in a sealed glass tube , which cut down radiation proceeding from it so as to produce densities of tion less than the smallest that was used iu the experiments made with Rontgen .
We sHume that in present expel.iments the of ) tion does ( ffect the value of to the extent of ) cent. When a gas contains ionls of one sigll ( as in the case of ions produced by the action of ultra-violet light on a metal plate , or by a point discbarge ) , the field al.ising from the electric density is sometimes sufficient to exert a considel.able force .
It would be difficult to find the exact amount that this effect contributes to the loss of ions in a tube while diffusion is ) , but it is easy to find an limit to the error it introduces .
Let us consider the se of a gas in a tube , its owing to the motion of the ions along lines of force the axis to the .
If we suppose that no diffusion is taking place , it is easy to show that the density of electrification at any point is given by the being the initial density , posed uniform , the velocity of an ) when acted on by unit force , the lime which the densi to The of ions 1 ) , is practically lIen th loss is *Lor .
( it .
, , p. 144 .
, ' Phil. ' Juno , lS98 .
MR. J. S. TOWNS NI ) ON THE ) FUSION OF IONS PRODUCED IN AIR If electrostatic unit , and .
per second , then becomes 006 .
This fraction is bigger than the correction to be applied to as can ) seen by taking a simple example .
Consider a case where 50 per cent. of ions lost in of a second when diffusion is taking place in a gas having a meall electric density electrostatic unit .
There are less ions per cub. centim. in the gas near the surface than in the gas near the centre , so that the effect of mutual epulsion must be much less than the above estimate , which is made on the supposition that the distribution is uniform .
We may safely consider that when is less than , the effect of the charge does not introduce an error of 1 per cent. .\mdash ; Ions produced by a Substance .
The atus which used for experiments with a radio-active substance is in fig. 1 .
It consists of a )rass tube , centims. long , centims. in diameter ) , and two smallel tubes , and ( centims. long ) , which fitted lightly into A. The tubes had brass electrodes , , supported by brass rods , , which ssed through ebonite , in the tubes B. Fig. 1 .
The fine tubes in which the diffusion takes place consisted of two sets of twenty-four each .
The longer set ( 4 centims. long diameter ) passed holes discs , which fitted ctly into the large tube A. The tubes , two of which are represented in the figure , projected 2 millims. from the discs at either end .
The set of short tubes T. , were passed through holes in a disc , and projected 2 millims. on each side of the disc , so that the conducting air should enter each set under exactly the same conditions .
The holes in the discs which the tubcs passed were rranged on a circle of 2 .
diameter , BY THE ACTION OF A CTIVE SUBSTANCE , concentric with the boundary of the disc .
When either set of tubes wasr pushed into , a stream of air down the large tube divides itself equally among the twentyfour channels provided by the tubes T. The disc was soldered to the front of the tube , and the disc .
to the front of the tube When working with air at atmospheric pressure the stream of air was obtained by putting weights on the movable cylinder of a gasometer .
For experiments with dry air the delivery tube of the gasometer was connected to wide tubes of calcium chloride , and a tube tightly packed with glass-wool was put between the drying tubes and the tube leading to , so that particles of dust should not be carried into the diffusion apparatus .
When it was desired to make experiments with moist air , the calcium chloride tubes were removed , and long tubes half filled with water were substituted .
The velocity of the air along the tubes could be varied by changing the weights on the gasometer .
The radio-active substance was obtained from E. de ( Chemische Fabrik , List for Hannover ) , and the preparation labelled " " Radio-active Substance \ldquo ; was used .
A tube , , of thin glass , containing some of the radio-active substance , was held by means of wire supports inside the tube A as shown in the figure .
The radiation given out by the active substance was much more intense than uranium rays , and after passing through the glass tube was strong enough to ionize the surrounding air .
The tube was sealed in order to prevent any moisture from coming into contact with the radio-active substance , which was deliquescent .
The tube A was fixed rigidly by ebonite supports , , to the top of a heavy box , so that the tube should not get shaken when the tubes and are fixed in position .
The tube A was colmected to one terminal of a battery of forty lead cells , the other terminal being to earth .
The rod was connected to one pair of quadrants of an electrometer , the other pair of quadrants and the case of the electrometer being connected to earth .
The rod and the wire connecting it to the electrometer were surrounded by metal screens , so that external electric charges should not giye any deflection on the electrometer scale .
Since the tube A is in metallic connection with all the arts of the diffusion apparatus except , there is no electric force acting on a stream of gas until it comes out of the tubes into the space between and B. The .
takes about one second to pass the electrode , and a difference of potential of a few volts between and would , under ordinary conditions , suffice to collect all the ions of one on , but owing to the turbulent motion of the gas as it escapes from the tubes , a ) greater potential difference ( S0 volts ) was used .
The potential of the electrode during an experiment never exceeded 1 or 2 yolts .
It was found under similar conditions of ionisation and velocity of air that the electrometer deflection was not altered by charging A to 40 volts instead of 80 .
We therefore conclude that all the ions of one sigll are collected on , so that the electrometer deflection is proportional to the number of ions that come through the tubes J. .
TOWNSFND ON THE DIFFUSION OF IONS IN AIR Methods of Conducting the Lxperiment , with Air Atmospheric Pressure .
The tube was moved into A until the disc came up to a small screw that projected into , and the rod was connected to the insulated quadrants of the electrometer .
The tube was connected to the end of by means of a piece of tubing the same size as A. Before any observations were made the stream of air was allowed to pass for one minute through the apparatus in order to blow out the ions that accumulate in the air in A. The quadrants ( connected to ) were then insulated , and the air , being ionised as it passes the tube , carries some of the ions with it the tube .
The electrometer deflection , divisions per minute , was then observed .
The positions of the two tubes and were then interchanged .
The resistance to the passage of the air through the apparatus was unaltered , so that the stream of gas that passed through was the same as when the deflection was being observed .
The rod was connected to the quadrants of the electrometer and the same observations were made , the electrometer deflections being divisions per minute .
experiments were repeated several times , and it was found that the numbers were constant , showing that the rays emanating from the tube did not vary with time to any appreciable extent .
When the quadrants were insulated and the air inside A at rest , a small deflection ( usually one division per minute ) was obtained arising from the imperfect insulation of the plug .
This deflection has to be subtracted from the deflections obtained when the stream of air is passing along A. The leak across gives rise to no inaccuracy , as it is perfectly constant and was easily determined .
In the tables of observations the corrected values of and are given .
When the tube A is chargsd positively the deflections and refer to positive ions ; similar numbers for ative ions were obtained by changing the of the otential of A. Pressures .
In order to make experiments with air at pressures lower than the atmospheric pressure , it was found necessary to make a slight change in the diffusion apparatus .
The experiments were made with the ions produced by the radio-active substance , as it is a source of very constant radiation .
A flat ring was soldered to the end of the tube , and similar rings were soldered outside the tubes and .
The ring on the tube was 8 centims. from the disc , and the ring on the tube centims. from the disc .
The diffusion apparatus was made sufficiently air-tight by greasing the ring on , and pressing the ring on against it .
The arrangement of the apparatus for obtaining a stream of air at low pressure is shown in fig. 2 .
Rubber stoppers with glass tubes leading from them we-re fitted into THE ACTtON OF A open ends of the tubes and .
A short brass tube was soldered near the end of the tube , and was connected to the manometer , so that the pressure of the air in A could be found .
The air from the room was admitted to the apparatus through capillary tubes K. having first passed through a tube of glass-wool , to prevent the admission of any dust which might alter the resistance of the tubing .
The capillary tubin was connected to the drying tubes , and the rest of the connections were made with wide tubing .
The tube leading from was connected to two large vessels and which were exhausted by means of a water-pump .
In order to obtain a stream of air through A at a given pressure , and with a velocity between uitable limits , the stopcock was closed and the whole apparatus was exhausted until the pressure was a few millims. below the pressure P. The tube was connected to the delivery tube of a gasometer , the movable cylinder of which was adjusted so as to be on the point of moving downwards when the gasometer was open to the air .
The vessel was then connected with the water-pump , and was turned on for a few minutes .
The velocities V ( through the tubing T ) which were desirable necessitated a larger supply through the apparatus than could be taken out by the water-pump , so that the pressure , as shown by the manometer , gradually rose at the rate of about 3 miUims .
per minute .
The stopcock was turned off when the pressure was as much above as it was below at the beginning of the experiment .
The velocity V in the tubes can be accurately found by observing the volume of air that escaped from the gasometer and the time during which the VOL CXCV .
266 MR. J. S. TOWNSEND ON DIFFUSiON IONS PRODUCED IN AIR cock was open .
If the velocity so found was too big or too small , the length of the capillary tubing was changed so as to bring the velocity V within the required limits .
Any alteration in the tubing leading into the diffusion apparatus necessitates a fresh determination of before experiments on the conductivity are made .
The tube is connected to the gasometer only for the purpose of determining V. Since the pressure inside the gasometer is the same as the atmospheric pressure , the air from the room may be allowed to enter directly during experiments on the conductivity .
The electrical arrangements were the same as have been already described .
Method of Conducting the Experiments with Air at Low Pressures .
The apparatus is arranged as shown in fig. 2 , and the pressure is reduced until it is a little lower than the pressure at which the experiment is to be made .
The stopcock is turned on and the air is allowed to run through the apparatus for about a minute before the quadrants , to which is connected , are insulated .
When the manometer shows that the pressure is about 2 millims. lower than , the quadrants are insulated and the deflection divisions per minute on the electrometer scale is observed .
The observations are continued until the pressure is about 2 millims. above , and the mean taken .
The difference between the deflections in the first and last half minute was scarcely perceptible .
Having determined , the stopcock was closed , and the air is admittted into the diffusion apparatus through , the tube was then removed and put in its place .
Before making observations with connected to the electrometer , it is necessary to test whether the joint between the two discs is air-tight .
For this purpose was closed and opened so as to let some of the air from the diffusion apparatus into .
The stopcock was then closed and the manometer was observed .
It was found that the ; did not get into the apparatus at one-thousandth the at which it entered when was open .
The determination of is then made in the same way as .
Particular care was taken in all cases to make the observations over the same part of the electrometer scale .
Generally the deflection was obtained from two half-minute observations .
Since is much smaller than , its value was taken as the mean of a number of observations made while the spot of light was passing the same part of the scale as was used for the determination of The following tables give the results of experiments at different pressures .
Tables I. and II .
refer to positive and negative ions respectively in dry air .
Tables III .
and IV .
are the corresponding observations for moist air .
The numbers in the oolumns and are the deflections obtained per minute ; is the pressure of the BY THE ACTION OF A RADIO-ACTIVE SUBSTANCE , ETC .
air in A in millims. of mercury ; V is the mean velocity in the tubing in centims. per second ; is the temperature of the air during the experiment:\mdash ; TABLE I.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE III.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Moist Air .
TABLE II.\mdash ; Negative Ions in Dry Air .
TABLE IV .
\mdash ; Negative Ions in Moist Air .
The connection between the ratio and the coefficient of diffusion can be shown graphically by means of a curve representing equation 2 , Section I. The accompanying curve has for co-ordinates and , and from it we can deduce the values of corresponding to the different pressures .
These values are given in the following tables:\mdash ; TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE V.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE VII.\mdash ; Positive Ions , Moist Air .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Negative Ions , Dry Air .
TABLE VIIL \mdash ; Negative Ions , Moist Air .
These tables show that in each case the rate of diffusion of ions into a gas is inversely proportional to the pressure of the gas .
The coefficients of diffusion at 772 millims. show a discrepancy from this law which is somewhat greater than the probable error of the experiments , but we should not expect closer agreement between the products unless the temperature of the air was the same in each case .
It will be noticed that the experiments at 772 millims. pressure were made when the temperature of the air was higher than the temperature during the other experiments .
SECTION III.\mdash ; Ions produced by the Action of -violet on Snrface .
The apparatus which is described in Section II .
can , with slight alterations , be used for ions produced by various methods .
In order to distribute ions produced by ultra-violet light in the stream of air passing along the tube , the changes shown in fig. 3 were made .
The windows and were cut in the long tube- , and two By THE ACTION OF A RADIO-ACTIVE SUBSTANCE , ETC .
short pieces , and were saddled on to it , each of them one of the windows .
A quartz-plate , , was fixed to the end of by means of sealing wax , which made the joint air-tight , and a piece of wire gauze , havin the same curvature as , was placed in the window , completely fillin it .
A piece of zinc , , of the same shape and size as the piece of brass which was cut out of the window , was fixed to a brass rod , , which passed through the ebonite disc D. The disc fitted tightly into the end of ) , and the joint was made air-tight .
The zinc did not touch the tube , so that its potential relative to A could be varied as desired .
When ultra- violet light passes through the quartz and the gauze , it falls on the zinc , and negative ions are produced at the surface of the metal .
Some of these ions can be sent into a stream of air passing along A by lowering the potential of the zinc relative to A. For this purpose a small battery , , was insulated and its positive terminal connected to A and its negative terminal to R. A spark between two aluminium wires was used as the source of ultra-violet light .
The apparatus for producing the spark was contained inside a box covered with lead , with a small opening at through which the light from the spark fell on the quartzQ .
One of the terminals of the secondary of a Ruhmkorff coil was connected to the outer coating of a Leyden jar , and the other terminal to the inner coating .
The jar was charged by the coil , and the discharge took place across the spark-gap formed by the two aluminium wires .
The air in the neighbourhood of the spark becomes positively electrified , so that it was found necessary to pack wool round the tube to prevent the electrified air from coming into the neighbourhood of the rod and the wire connecting it to the electrometer .
When this precaution was taken it was found that the electrometer gave no deflection when the coil was turned on for several minutes .
Method of Experiments with Ultra-Violet Light .
The small battery of Clark cells was insulated , and its terminals were connected to and A so as to make the potential of about 6 volts less than A. The tube A was connected to the negative terminal of a battery of 40 lead cells , the other terminal being to earth .
The tubes and the electrometer connections were arranged in the same way as when experimenting with the radio-active substance .
The observations were made in a slightly different manner .
The quadrants connected to were insulated and the stream of air allowed to run through the apparatus .
About fifteen seconds were allowed for the stream of air to become constant ; the coil working the spark gap was then turned on for a fixed time ( twenty seconds generally ) .
The electrometer deflection can be read when the spot of light becomes steady , which is an advantage of this method .
When the coil was not working the electrometer reading did not vary more than division per minute , and was not affected by letting the stream of air pass through the apparatus .
The deflections ( obtained in a similar manner when the ionized air passes through the short tubes ) were about twice as big as the deflections so that the latter observations were made twice in order to cover the same part of the scale .
The deflections obtained when the rod was connected directly to A were about of the deflection obtained when the zinc plate was 6 volts negative compared with A. The potential of A was changed to 80 volts positive , and the zinc plate made positive with respect to , and no deflection was obtained on allowing the coil to run for two minutes .
The following tables give the deflections obtained with different velocities through the tubes T. The numbers and are deflections per minute , and the coefficients of diffusion were deduced from the curve , Section II .
The air in these experiments was at atmospheric pressure H. The temperature only varied from to during the experiments , so that the rates of diffusion may be taken as corresponding to a temperature of centigrade:\mdash ; TABLE IX .
\mdash ; Dry Air .
TABLE X. \mdash ; Moist Air .
BY THE ACTION OF A -ACTIVE The density of ionization depends greatly on the state of the zinc surface , which has to be polished from time to time in order that the ionization should not be too small .
In the above experiments the greatest density of electrification occurs in the third experiment with dry gas .
The mean time , , spent by any portion of the gas in the tubes is second .
The total volume of gas that passed through the apparatus per minute was 4260 On standardising the electrometer , it was found that each scale division corresponded to a charge of 0044 electrostatic unit .
The mean density of the electrification was therefore electrostatic unit per .
We have shown in Section I. that the product must be less than in order that the loss of ions due to self-repulsion should be less than 1 per cent. of the loss due to diffusion to the sides .
In the present case the product is , so that no correction need be made for the loss due to self-repulsion .
SEOTION IV .
produced by Point In order to make the apparatus suitable for experimenting with the point discharge , the changes shown in fig. 4 were made .
Two circular holes centims. in diameter ) were made in the tube , and two tubes , and , of the same diameter as 272 MR. J. S. TOWNSEND ON THE DIFPUSION iONS PRODUCED the holes were soldered to A in the positions shown in the figure .
Ebonite were fitted tightly into and so that no air should escape by the side tubes .
The brass rods and passed through holes in the plugs , and could be moved up and down so as to bring the metal points which were soldered to their ends to any desired position in the tubes .
The point at the end of was a steel needle , and the point was a short platinum wire .
The potential of the point was raised by means of a Wimshurst machine driven at a constant speed by an electric motor .
One of the conductors of the machine was connected to earth and the other to the wire V , which terminated in a point at a distance of about 5 millims. from the metal disc D. The disc was connected to one of the rods or by the insulated wire W. When the Wimshurst machine was working no discharge took place from the point inside the diffusion apparatus while the earth-connected wire X rested on W. When the earth-connected wire was raised off , a discharge immediately took place from the point at the end of the rod F. constant discharge could therefore be obtained inside the tube for any desired time , independent of the imtial and final variations of the machine .
Most of the electricity discharged from the point inside A goes to earth through the battery , and only a small fraction is carried by the stream of air along the tube A. Owing to the charges carried about in the air of the room ( emanating partly from and partly from points of the machine ) , it was found that gauze screens were not sufficient protection for the wire leading from to the insulated quadrants ; it was found necessary to cover the screens with tinfoil .
When this precaution was taken the electrometer showed no deflection when the Wimshurst had been working for several minutes .
The experiments were conducted practically in the same manner as the experiments on ultra-violet light .
The following tables give the results of the experiments , the numbers in the columns and having the same signification as in the preyious tables:\mdash ; TABLE XI.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Dry Air .
BY TH1 ACTION OF A SUBSTANCE , periment 1.\mdash ; Made with steel poin in the tube , the point being at the aperture in the tube A. and 3.\mdash ; Made under same conditions iment 1 ) that the tube was used in order that the should have a smaller when it reaches the Experiment 4.\mdash ; Same as and 3 , tinum point sub tituted for the steel point .
Experiment 5.\mdash ; The point was held in the tube A in the position shown in .\mdash ; Same as experiment 1 , except that the point was ) the side tube centims. the aperture in A. iments 1 and 5 clre the only ones in which the self-repulsion ibute cppreciably to the loss of ions in tube T , so that values of deduced these be a little too difference of about 5 per cent. which occurs between the values ined in iments 1 and 5 and the values obtained in experiments 2 , , is due to this not to any difference in the ions .
The ions which get into the stream of air in A from a poin some distance ) the side larger the others , as Experiment 6 shows that they diHusemol.b slowly .
TABLE XII .
Negative Ions in Dry Air .
riment 1.\mdash ; Made with a steel } ) oint i the tube , the point being at the aperture in the ) A. .\mdash ; Same , with substituted steel needle .
point was held in tube in fig. 5 .
xperilnent 1 except that ( was drawn ) tube centinls .
from the perture in A. The first three xperiments give practically the values for the ient ) diffusion , but the fourth experiment shows that ions oduced 1 ] } point discharge takes place in the narrow tube Q. VOL. CXCV . .
2 TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Positive Ions in Moist Air .
Experiment 1.\mdash ; Made with a steel in the tube , the point being at the aperture in A. Experiment 2.\mdash ; Made with a platinum poin in the tube ( in order to get larger deflections ) .
eriment 3.\mdash ; Steel poin in tube centims. from the aperture in A. The effect of drawing the point up the tube has not so much effect this citse as when the is dry .
TABLE XIV .
Negative Ions in Moist Air .
These three ints were made with the discharge from the wire in the side tube Q. In Experiments 1 and 2 the point was at the centre of the aperture in steel and platinum points being used in the two cases respectively .
The third experiment was made with a steel point drawn up the tube .
from the aperture in the tube A. Considering the experiments made with the point at the junction of and , it will be seen that the electrification ( in arbitrary units ) is greatest for those ions which move the slowest .
This SJ:ises partly on account of the loss of charge in the tube A before the gas reaches the tubes T. If equal electrifications were produced at the source , we would expect less of the small ions than of the large ions to reach the tubes with the gas .
BY ACTION OF A RADIO-ACTIV SUBSTANCE , SECTION V. \mdash ; Effect of Pressure .
The theory of the interdiffusion of gases shows that the coefficient of diflusion is inversely proportional to the total pressure of the two diffusing gases .
This law has been confirmed by the experiments of LOSCHMrDT and others .
* The results given in Section II .
show that the law can be extended to the case where one of the gases consists of ions .
The pressure that the ions exert is so small that it does not contribute to the total pressure by an amount which could be measured .
The total pressure in this case is the pressure of the gas into which the ions are diffusin , and we see that between the pressures 772 and 200 ( millims. of mercury ) the rate of diffusion is inversely proportional to the pressure .
We conclude from this that the size of an ion does not change when the pressure varies between these limits .
Ions produced by Methods .
The experiments on diffusion show that the ions produced by Rontgen rays , radioactive substances , and ultra-violet light are nearly of the same size , and subject to the same changes arising from the presence of moisture .
The following table of coefficients of diffusion of ions into air shows that there are differences in the various cases which are greater than what might arise from experimental errors .
The ions produced by the point discharge are larger than those produced by the other methods , since their rate of diffusion is much slower , except in the case of negative ions in moist air .
COEFFICIENTS of Diffusion of Ions produced in Air by different Methods .
*MEYER , ' The Kinetic Theory of Gases , ' Chap. VIII .
J. S. TOWNSEND ON THE DIFFUSION OF IONS IN AIR We first exatnine the relative values of the charges on the ions in the different cnses .
For this purpose a knowledge of the velocities of the ions through , when ncted on by a known electric force , is required .
If is the numbel of molecules per .
of a gas at atmospheric pressure dynes square centim the charge on the ion of the gas in electrostatic units , the velocity of the ion in a field of 1 .
yolt .
per centim. , and the coefficient of diffusion of ions into the gas ; then\mdash ; If is the charge on a hydrogen ion in a liquid electrolyte , then being expressed in electrostatic lmits .
From these formulae we see that when and are , we find in terlns of It has already been in this manner , in the case of Rontgen rays , that the charge carried by the positive and negative ions is in all cases very nearly the same as the charge , the differences not being greater than possible experimental errors .
In order to make a similar investigation for ions produced by other methods , complete knowledge of the velocities would be necessary , but it is only in a few cases that these velocities have been found .
The value of for ions produced by ultra-violet light given by Professor RUTHERF0RD is centims. per second in air at atmospheric pressure .
* If we take the mean of the two values of which we have found for dry and moist air , we find that in this case No .
The effect of moistur1 on the velocity under electric force has not been examined , so that we cannot expect to obtain a nearer rreement with the electrolytic value of NO .
The velocities of the ions produced by point discharges have been investigated by Professor CHATTOCK .
The values given for the positive and negative ions are ) ( centinls .
per second in a field of 1 volt per centim. ) respectively .
Other values were also obtained smaller than these , which would agree better with the observed coefficients of diffusion , but Professor CHATTOCK is of opinion that the lo values he obtained for the velocities are less reliable , owing to experimental errors .
The arrangement of the apparatus for the determination of the velocities was such that the point was not surrounded by a narrow tube , so that the larger values obtained for the coefficient of diffusion may be taken in conjunction with the above values of the velocities .
The numbers so obtained for No are and for the positive and negative ions respectively .
These results would seem to show that some of the ions carried a double charge , but we cannot attach much importance to the above numbers , since the coefficients of RFOTtD , ' idge Philosophical Society Proc vol. 9 , Part VIII .
, 1898 .
TTOCK , 'Phil .
lIag Nov. , 1899 .
By THE ACTION OF A RADIO-ACTIVE SUBSTANCE , diffusion show plainly that the sizes of the ions produced by point discharges vary with the arrangement of the apparatus in the neighbourhood of the point .
What is necessary in order to come to a definite conclusion with regard to the is to examine the coefficients of diffusion and the velocities of ions produced under similar circumstances .
This would be possible with the apparatus I ] lave used for the detertion of the coefficients of diffusion , and I hope to be able to make observations on the velocities which ] lead to an accurate deterlnination of This method of obtaining the charge on all ion in a in terms of the charge on an ion in a liquid electrolyte is of some , as it enables us to obtain evidence of the atomic nature of electricity .
The results show that there is a similarity minimum divisions of electric charge in liquids and in gases .
The methods hitherto used for the deterlnination of the charge in absolute units apply to ions produced in moist gases , and since all the determiJlations depend upon the rate at which a cloud falls , great accnracy be expected .
The results show that the charge on the cal.rier is of the same order for ions by various methods .
The charges have been obtained by Professor J. J. for ions produced by Rontgen rays , ae and by ultra-violet the values are nearly the same , being between and unit .
These values do not diffel ' very much from the value which I tained for charge on the carrier in the charged gases given off by electrolysis .
If we consider that the charge is the same in cases , we assume that the mass surrounding the ion val.ies in order to account for the differences observed in the coefficients of diffusion .
MCCLELLAND , S by exanining the velocities of the ions produced by an arc and by glowing wires , found that the lnass attached to the ion depends to a great measure on circumstances connected with the ionization .
The velocities undergo large changes for small diffel.ences of ) erature of the wire , showing that the mass which collects round an ion is variable .
We would not expect that Rontgen rays or radio-active substances wonld have an effect upon the air , which would alter its tendency to collect round a ion , but it is possible that ionization is produced in different ways by different kinds of rays , so that the masses are not identical .
With point discharges in air there are actions taking lace which would tend to make the carrier increase in size .
Thus the oxides of nitrogen which are formed might condense round the charge and lower the rate of diffusion by increasing the mass of the ion .
It is uncertain whether ultra-yiolet light has any effect on , but * J. J. , ' Phil. Mag Dec. , 1898 .
J. J. THOMSON , ' Phil. Mag Dec. , 1899 .
J. S. TOWNSEND , ' Phil. Mag Feb. , 1898 .
S J. A. LAND , ' Camb .
Phil. [ Soc. Proc vol. 10 , Pnrt C. T. R. WILSON , ' Phil. Trans ) , 1899 . .
J. S. TOWNSENI ) ON DIFFUSION OF IONS PRODUCED IN AIR .
has shown that if the light acts on moist air for some minutes , a cloud begins to .
This effect must be very small in the present experiments , but it may account for the difference between the rates of diffusion of ions produced by Rontgen -violet light .
In , I must express my thanks to Professor THOMSON for many valuable suggestions in connection with this research .

