XVIIT .
Observation of the great Eclipse of the Sun of Sept , r793 .
By John Jerome Schroeter , Esq. Communicated by George Best , Esq. F. R. S , Read May z$ , 179+ .
ALTHOUGH the weather , owing to temporary clouds atid flying showers , have at times been somewhat ullfavourablen it was yet upon the whole sufficiently clear to admit of a good observation , to which the slll ?
eriority of my islstruments was not a little conducive .
Having prepared my hand telescope , being a 7-feet reflector , with a power magnifying ^o times with great distinctrsLess , and mrith a field that took in rllore than the disk of the SUI1 I watclled atterlfively for the first contact , but was preyenteel by some intervening clouds : the firstglitnpse , however , I had was immediately after the immersion , which tooli place at the northwest edge of the sun ; and it was as yet so very trifling , that had it not been for the excellence of my instru:nents I should hardly have perceive(l it ; and I am well assured that the first contact did 11X3t take place above 4 seconds before this instant of time .
This observation was , according to true time , ( corrected by g equal altitudes on the 4th and 6th ) on the th Sept. at lOh 26/ s9tt , 3 ; SO that the first Gentact must have been at loh 26 ' S ' Tlle distance of the cusps I could not observe .
The end of the eclipse was , on the other hand ) observed with much more accuracy ; for although the sun was at this time frequently coveied by clouds of diSerent densities , yet by means of a variety of glasses , which I appiied occasionally to the eyeglass of my telescopen I sas enabled to see distinctly the decreasing obscuration which q]vlrixlg the &gt; 3 last seconds was scarcely perceptible , although certaily stil1 existing , the orb of the sun not being perfectly coluplete till after the expiration of the last-mentioned interval , svhicll eilded at lh 32t 54J true time .
A11 tisese observations were made sith the abovemen tioned 7-feet telescope , made by professor SCHEADER , magni fying 5o times .
; Duingthe intermediate period of the eclipsen the atmosphere being tolerabltr sereneg I was enabled by the excellence of this teleseope , and a large 1 g-feet reflector , to make a very interesting observation , which led to some importalat illferences .
1 .
All my telescopes , evell the g-feet achromaticn applied to my quadrant , showed the globular body of the ttloon like -a dusky grey orb floating before the sun , its faint light becorn ing somewhat brighter towards the riln .
e. Botll mys\#163 ; \Ti ; and several other persons who were then with me , percei ; ed soon af-ter the beginning of the eclipse three high ridges of nzountaitzs on the south-east border of the moon projecting sensibly into the disk of the sun S one of them-appearing to be a lolzg and considerable mountainous range , and the two others to the westward being more in the shape of .
prominent points .
rrhis was seen with the 7-feet reflector magnify ing only $o times , but this verydistirtctly* : I apply :ecl a power of z60 , together with the projection machine , and found that the two last-mentiolled points were from e4 to 28 seconds asunder , that the long eastern range was somewhat more distant from the zearest of the former , and that all of them projected , if nts)t 4 , at least 3 seconds beyond the rim of the moon ; so that their height from the saicl rim could not be less than three-qvlarters of a Ger^man mile .
It occurred to me that these probably were parts of the very high motlntainous region Doerfel ( v. Selen .
Fragm .
Tab. IV .
) ; I delineated them , and compared them with my cllarts , and found that , thougl according to the present libration of the lnoc)n their projection ought not to be precisely as here representeelg the coincidence was yet sufficielltly striking .
Soon after , when the south-Nvestern limb of the moon had advanced a little further on the disk of the sun , I discovered on this part another e6lually prominent mountainous range , which I also measured and delineated .
It consisted of a ridge one millute and from go to 40 seconds , and therefore not less than 23 or 24 geographical miles , in length ; and four insulated mountains to the westward , all projecting from 2 to g seconds beyond the rim of the moon ; these I hrld litt ; le doubt mtlst be parts of the very 1(3fty mountainous regiotl Lelbnitz , which a particular libration now presented in such a projection to our sight .
About noon , the eclipse being then at its greateQit obscuration , I vetltured to direct my excellent:3-ieet reflector to the dim light of the sun ; and now the dark orb of.9ze moon , and its lofty moulatainous rim to the southsrard , appeared with such uncommon , and in a manner palpable distinctness ) that the impression of it c an never be eXaced from my imgination .
I at the same time distirlguished bet ; * , veen these high ridges , other less ones , which however were { fi-uaizy u !
ell defiXled , but which I had not perceived with the 7-feet reflector ; and the contrast between several lofty ridges , and the smooth almost regular rim of the moon to the westward , was here sllfficiently striking. .
Not having for several days before , and likewise on the very day of the eclipse , noticed any spots on the disk of the sun , three small ones only excepted , which were perceived on the egth of August ; and it appearing very remarkable to me that , with this particular modification of the atmosphere of the sun , none of its blazing spots should be perceptible ; I confess I was not a little surprised on viewing the sun 's disk with my large reflector , to find that no , either dark or blazing , spots appeared on the luminous part , but that the whole visible disk was in a mallner marbled , or covered over with whitish , more or less faint , nebulosities ; as I had indeed seen it some years ago with my 7-feet HERSCHELIAN telescope , but by far not ir so striking a degree .
I at the same time discovered , westward towards the ritn of the sunf a very small but distinct blackish spot , which other observers with illferior telescopes may well 1lot have noticed , since I myself could not see 2t with my 7-feet SCHRADERIAN reflector .
Some other observations I have made I shall reserve for the present .
Lilienthal , Sept. 8 , s793 Mm MDbCXC 1Y .

