XIV .
EXPERIMENT S , by way of Analysis , upon the Water of the Dead Sea ; upon the Hot Spring near Tiberiades ; and upon the Hammam Pharoan Water ; by Charles Perry , M. D. made on his Journey through the Holy Land , &amp;c. EXPERIMENTS ( by way of Analysis ) upon the Water of Asphaltis , commonly called the Dead Sea .
EXPERIMENT I. UPON steeping or infusing some Scrapings of Gall in it , ( after standing a long time ) it turned of a bright purple Colour .
Read Feb. 25 .
1741-2 .
EXPERIMENT II .
Upon the Instillation of Ol .
Tartari per Deliq .
it immediately became troubled or muddy , and seemed as if Goblets of Fat were fluctuating in it .
This unctuous Matter , upon long standing in Repose , came gradually into closer Contact , and at last subsided .
EXPERIMENT III .
Upon the Instillation of Spirit of Vitriol , it deposited a Milk-white greasy Sediment ; which , after 12 Hours Repose , occupied one-fifth Part of the Vehicle or Liquor .
EXPERIMENT IV .
Being mixed with a Solution of Saccharum Saturni , it let fall a small Quantity of a greyish Powder .
EXPERIMENT V. Being severally and separately mixed with Solution of Sublimate , with Sp. Sal .
Armoniac .
and with Sugar of Violets ; it neither fermented , deposited any Sediment , grew turbid , nor changed Colour ; except only from the Sugar of Violets , which turned it of a dark Green .
OBSERVATION S. This Water is highly saturated with Salt , insomuch that any Measure of it preponderates fresh Water under equal Surfaces , in the Ratio of Five to Four .
It has also a wonderful Acrity , insomuch that being held in the Mouth for a short time , it constringes it in like manner as Alum does .
I cannot ( from the above Experiments , and the Appearances which resulted from them ) conclude , that this Water is impregnated with any thing more than mere Salt , which is of a very acrid , alkaline Nature ; and something else , which may be of a compound Nature , partly sulphureous , and partly bitumiG nous .
nous .
But , to speak negatively , it may be presumed , I think , that it neither partakes of Steel , Alum , nor Vitriol , nor yet of a pure , genuine Sulphur : And , consequently , as I take it , can afford no other , nor better Effects , to such as may bathe in it , than other Sea-water ; except only , that its greater Degree of Salt , and superior Weight , may somewhat heighten the same Effects .
EXPERIMENTS ( by way of Analysis ) upon the hot Spring Water near Tiberiades .
EXPERIMENT I. Oil of Tartar .
per Deliq .
3ss .
being mixed with ~ iss of the Water , it became troubled and muddy ; and after standing 12 Hours in Repose , Three-quarters of the Whole , from the Bottom upwards , appeared like white Wool : But this woolly Water , being separated by Filtration , and left to dry , seemed no other than a yellowish Oker .
EXPERIMENT II .
I mixed 3 ss Sp. Vitriol with ~ iss of the Water , and , after 12 Hours standing still , I found a large Sediment of a white unctuous Matter .
EXPERIMENT III .
Solution of Sublimate 3ss being mixed with ~ iss of the Water , it became turbid and yellowish , and yielded an earthy Sediment in small Quantity ; whence I conclude it contains a Sal murale .
EXPERIMENT IV .
One Ounce and half of the Water , mixed with 3ss of a Solution of Sacch .
Saturni , deposited a greyish Sediment of a lateritious Matter , in small Quantity .
EXPERIMENT V. One Ounce and half of the Water , mixed with 3ss Sp. Sal .
Armoniac , turned turbid , of a Colour betwixt Green andBlue ; and after 12 Hours Repose , yielded a woolly Sediment of four Digits deep .
EXPERIMENT VI .
One Ounce and half of the Water , mixed with 3ss Sacch .
Violar .
became troubled , and of a dark-yellowish Colour .
EXPERIMENT VII .
One Ounce and half mixed with 3ss of Scrapings of Gall , became of a fine violet Colour ; but when shook , was as deep as Ink .
OBSERVATION S. This Water ( as appears to my Judgment ) contains a good deal of a gross fixed Vitriol , some Alum , and a mural Salt of a limy Quality .
It is too salt and nauseous for internal Use ; but by batheing in it , must be good for all cutaneous Distempers , and especially for the Scurvy and Leprosy : For it will powerfully deterge , scour , and clean the excretory Pores ; and it may , by its Weight and Stimulus , restore them to their natural State , Strength , and Elasticity .
It may , by the same Means , restore the lost or impaired Tone of the Solids in general : In Consequence of which , it may thin the Blood , help its Circulation , and promote the natural Digestions and Secretions ; and thus , finally , it may be useful in Rheumatisms , Dropsies , Jaundices , and nephritic Diseases .
Analysis of the Hammam Pharoan Water , near Corromondel , on the way to Mount Sinai .
EXPERIMENT I. This Water being mixed with the Scrapings of Gall , manifested no sensible Change at first ; but after long standing it grew somewhat greenish .
EXPERIMENT II .
Upon the Instillation of Sp. Sal .
Armoniac .
it became turbid ; and on standing some time in Repose , deposited a dark-greyish Powder , in small Quantity .
EXPERIMENT III .
Four Ounces of the Water , being mixed with 3iss Sacc .
Violar .
manifested no Change , except what would necessarily result from the Tincture of Violets .
EXPERIMENT IV .
Being mixed with a Solution of Sacch .
Saturni , it became immediately very turbid ; but on standing some time in Repose , it deposited a large darkbrown Sediment , leaving the Vehicle troubled and whitish .
EXPERIMENT V. I mixed a Solution of Sublimate with it , upon which it became immediately yellow ; but , after standing at Rest , it deposited a woolly unctuous Matter , in small Quantity .
EXPERIMENT VI .
Being mixed with Ol .
Tartari per Deliq .
it became of a chyly Colour and Substance , or of a turbid pearly Colour .
EXPERIMENT VII .
Being mixed with Spirit of Vitriol , it manifested no Change , either of Colour or Transparency .
OBSERVATIO N. I conclude from the Phenomenon which appeared upon Analysation , that this Water is impregnated with a good deal of a gross earthy Sulphur , a neutral Salt , a small Quantity of Alum , but no Proportionof Vitriol .
This cannot be used inwardly , it being nauseous beyond Expression : It smells somewhat like rotten Eggs , but much worse .
But , used by way of Bath , it may cleanse the Skin of all Foulnesses , purge and deterge the cutaneous Glands from all foul noxious Humours : It may reinforce the natural Heat and Vigour , ( where they are decayed ) and may restore the impaired Digestions : And hence , finally , it may promote Virility in Men , and Fecundity in Women .
It may likewise be useful in the Gout ; as also in Epilepsies , and other Diseases of the nervous Class .

