1888.1 Teeth in the young Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
353 the equations can be solved ; some special examples are given .
For the sake of greater intelligibility , I have included an historical account of previous theories of plane plates and shells , a description of the method of the present paper , and a summary recapitulating the chief physical results .
XI .
" True Teeth in the young Ornithorhynchus By Edward B. Poulton , M.A. , F.L.S. , of Jesus and Keble Colleges , Oxford .
Communicated by W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 26,1888 .
For the purpose of continuing some recent work upon various epidermic structures in Ornithorhynchus , Dr. Parker very kindly placed his most valuable material at my disposal .
Among other things was a series of consecutive vertical transverse sections through the head of a young individual , about 8*3 decimetres long , when in the curled-up attitude in which it had been received , and which was fixed by the spirit .
In this specimen only the larger hairs had appeared above the surface of the skin .
The sections had been prepared for Dr. Parker by his son , Professor W. Newton Parker , of Cardiff , and although intended for the investigation of morphological points in connexion with the development and structure of the skull , many of them were in every way adapted for minute histological investigation .
Examining these sections I found that large and apparently typical mammalian teeth were developing in the subepithelial tissues on each side of the roof of the mouth .
I at once communicated with Dr. Parker , telling him of the discovery , and enquiring whether he had any objection to the publication of the fact .
Dr. Parker replied , and urged me to at once communicate the discovery to the Royal Society , at the same time offering me material in the most free and generous manner for the further investigation of the dental structures in Ornithorhynchus and in Echidna ( if present in the latter ) .
When it is remembered that Dr. Parker had put the sections aside for a time in consequence of the press of other work , intending soon to make use of them for the investigation of the skull , it will be seen at once that my association with this discovery is purely accidental , and that I have been treated in an extremely generous spirit .
As the lower jaw was not included in the sections , I cannot- yet state that teeth are present in it , but there is little doubt that this is the case.* Teeth were present in the upper jaw , in thirty sections through the head , and of these all , except the nine anterior sections , included some part of the eye .
The teeth probably represent some * I have since found that teeth are present in the lower jaw.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
Mr. E. B. Poulton .
in [ Feb. 9r part of the molar series in the higher mammals .
Examining the sections from the front backwards , the first tooth appeared a little behind the anterior margin of the epithelial elevation , which appears to represent the developing horny plate which in the adult is the functional representative of true teeth .
The teeth seem to form a tolerably straight line , extending internally to the horny plates , and passing considerably further backwards than the latter.* * * S Owing to imperfections in this part of some of the sections , I could not determine the exact number of teeth with accuracy , but they appear to be five or six in number on each side.f The most anterior of these is of a different character from the others , and is apparently separated from them by an interval which is longer than in other cases .
This anterior tooth is the most developed , and its apex extends so far towards the surface that it nearly touches the epithelium .
It is a pointed cylindrical tooth , directed vertically downwards .
The fourf or five posterior teeth are of uniform shape .
Their structure , appearance , and relation to the surface are shown in fig. 1 ( X 40 ) .
The two chief cusps of each of these broad teeth arise from the inner side of the surface .
J The structure of the enamel-cap is entirely normal , except that capillaries are certainly present in the middle membrane , intruding from without .
The inner layer of long enamel cells is very distinct ( see figure ) .
No enamel is formed from them at this stage , except probably in the case of the anterior tooth .
S The dentine is quite normal in appearance and formation in the posterior teeth , except that the striation due to dentinal tubules can only be made out beneath the apex , but this may be due to the condition of the specimen or to method of preparation .
] ] The inner part of the dentine stains faintly in carmine , and shows the striation ; the outer part does not stain , and appears homogeneous .
The dentine of the anterior teeth is much thicker , and is not of normal character|| in its inner part , its outer part resembling that of the other teeth .
* In the lower jaw the teeth appear to lie exactly beneath the developing plate .
This may be the case in the upper jaw also , for the epithelium was in a damaged condition , and I may have been mistaken in my first identification of the undeveloped horny plate .
Comparison with a skull of the same age strongly supports this conclusion.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
f I have since found that the teeth are fewer in number , probably three being present upon each side of each jaw .
The two posterior teeth have many cusps , and the two largest of these looked like separate teeth in sections .
The true shape has been shown by a dissected preparation of the lower jaw.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
X In the lower jaw the two chief cusps arise from the outer side of the teeth.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
S Eecently prepared sections , made in order to decide this point , have shown that enamel is certainly present.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
i| Eecently prepared sections have shown that the dentine is of the usual struc1888 .
] the young Ornitkorhynchus paradoxus .
s.e. There can be no doubt that these structures are characteristic Mammalian teeth , and their appearance harmonises well with the results of Hertwig 's researches on the structure and development of Placoid scales .
His researches indicate that the Mammalian teeth are probably in a more ancestral condition than any other organ possessed by the adult .
They must have been derived at one time from Proto-therian ancestors , and yet existing Prototheria were not known to possess them .
Their occurrence in Ornithorhynchus , therefore , supplies the step just where it is wanted , and the fact that they are practically identical with the teeth of higher mammals is a further indication of the ancestral nature of these structures , for other higher mammalian features represented in the Prototheria are profoundly modified in the latter .
Dr. Parker has very kindly placed his material at my disposal , so that I propose to at once investigate , and shall shortly publish a paper upon , the nature of the teeth in the lower jaw of Ornithorhynchus and in Echidna ( for it is in every way probable that they will be found in this genus also ) .
I also intend to work at the mature organism , ture , although in some sections it has been rendered apparently homogeneous , probably by some method of preparation.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
, VOL. XLIII .
2 D 356 Lord Rayleigh .
On relative [ Feb. 9 , for it seems probable that such large tooth-rudiments may be traceable in later stages .
In this investigation , the few points of uncertainty as to the minute structure of some of the tissues will in all probability be settled satisfactorily.* DESCRIPTION OF FIGURE .
x40 .
The arrow points towards the middle line of the mouth .
M. Mouth .
s , e. Superficial epithelium of oral cavity .
m. Sub-epithelial tissues forming tooth-sac immediately outside enamel-cap .
a. Outer membrane of enamel-cap .
b. Middle membrane of enamel-cap .
c. Inner membrane of enamel-cap ; the enamel cells .
The dark layer just external to the enamel cells represents the stratum intermedium of Hannover .
d. The dentine , of which the inner part stains faintly and shows the delicate dentinal tubes .
s. Space caused by shrinkage between enamel cells and the outer part of the tooth rudiment .
p. Tooth papilla .
o. The odontoblasts forming the superficial layer of the papilla .
HI .
" On the Relative Densities of Hydrogen and Oxygen .
Preliminary Notice .
" By Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received February 2 , 1888 .
The appearance of Professor Cooke 's important memoir upon the atomic weights of hydrogen and oxygen } induces me to communicate to the Royal Society a notice of the results that I have obtained with respect to the relative densities of these gases .
My motive for undertaking this investigation , planned in 1882 , } was the same as that which animated Professor Cooke , namely , the desire to examine whether the relative atomic weights of the two bodies really deviated from the simple ratio 1 : 16 , demanded by Prout 's Law .
For this purpose a knowledge of the densities is not of itself sufficient ; but it appeared to me that the other factor involved , viz. , the relative atomic volumes of the two gases , could be measured with great accuracy by eudiometric methods , and I was aware that Mr. Scott had in view a redetermination of this number , since in great part carried out .
S If both investigations are * This appears to have been already the case.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
f " The Relative Values of the Atomic Weights of Hydrogen and Oxygen , " by J. P. Cooke and T. W. Richards , ' Amer .
Acad. Pi'oc .
, ' vol. 23 , 1887 .
+ Address to Section A , British Association ' Report , ' 1882 .
S " On the Composition of Water by Volume , " by A. Scott , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 16 , 1887 ( vol. 42 , p. 396 ) .

