]\gt ; Mr. E. H. Glaisher .
the effect per of the former being greater than the latter .
The shortest latency for the heated frog muscle occurs at , and closely precedes rigor .
maintained for a considerable time at a given elevation or depression of temperature , preserve a constant latency .
Up to the present the gastrocnemius of the frog has been the only muscle upon which we have experimented , and our chief object in making this communication is to call attention to the changes in the duration of the latency brought about by varying conditions of stimulation .
We hope to continue our observation by making similar experiments on different mnscles of various animals , and in a future paper to enter more fully upon the changes occurring in the other phases of the contractio1l , for which purpose further use will be made of the tables we have the honour of laying before the Royal Society .
" " Formulae for , dn8 , in terms of sn By ERNEST H. GLAISHER , B.A. , rinity College , mbridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received and Read June 16 , 1881 .
S 1 .
In Grunert 's " " Archiv der Mathematik und Physik vol. xxxvi ( 1861 ) , pp. 125-176 , Baehr has given the formulae for sn , cn dn , in terms of sn for the cases , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 .
These ex- pressions are reproduced by Cayley in a tabular form in his " " eatise on Ellipic Functions Art .
109 ( pp. 80-85 ) .
The object of the present paper is to give the corresponding formulae in the case of .
These were deduced from the formulae the case in the following manner .
We have sn cn dn and therefore , denoting the numerators of su , cn , dn , and their common denominator by respectively , so that sn , cn , dn Formutoe for , in terms of we find sn cn dn .
S 2 .
The numerators of sn , cn , dn8 , and their common denominator , may therefore be deduced by .
linearly the four expressions PQRS , , where and denotes , as hout this paper , sn The values of PQRS , were calculated iu the followin ) manner : The squares and the lucts PS and , were first formed .
Then were multiplied ether , and the square of PS formed : the agreement of these two results verified the values of .
The expressions for and were the obtained by squaring and ; these calculations being performed in duplicate .
To obtain PQRS the expressions for PS and QR were multiplied together ; and as verification the product PQ was formed , and was multiplied successively by and R. S 3 .
The resulting formulae are shown in the following tables , which the mode of arrangement is almost obvious : thus , for example , the numerator of { 8 .
Hi .
H. Glaisher .
S4 .
If be equal to unity the cn and dn become identical , and the formulae , as is well known , assume the simple forms , .
Putting in these formulae , we have cn When is put equal to 1 the in S3 reduce to these expressions : and we obtain an imortant verification of their accuracy .
Since the denominator of sn , cn Su , dn is of the order 64 in it is evident that a factor of the order 56 is common to the numerator and denominator of these expressions when is put equal to urnity .
By putting in the formulae of S and dividing the resulting expression for the numerator of sn by is found that this factor is it should be .
And it was verified by division that the expressions for the numerator of cn and the common denominator were equal to this factor muItiplied by and respectively .
S 5 .
The expressions are respectively the numerators and denominators of and of , and it seems worth while to place on record their values , which are as follows :

