]\gt ; INDEX STANTON , T. E.\mdash ; On the of Heat between Metal ftCCh a ] Liquids in contact with ) Phil. Trans. .
, vol. 190 , pp. 67-88 .
Heat , transmission of : to water flowing in : effect of velocity of Ji Stanton , T. E. Phil. Trans. , , 1897 , vol. 190 , pp. 67-88 .
[ 67 ] the of between Metal Surfaces Liquids in contact with them .
T. E. STANTON , M.Sc .
, Assistant Lecturer in Engineering University College , Liverpool .
by Professor OSBORNE REYNOLDS , F.R. ceived April 7\mdash ; Read May 13 , 1897 .
Introduction .
THE determination of the rate of transmission of heat from the surface of a heated metal to water in contact with it , or from hot water to a colder surface , is a problern of some difficulty , but is of such great importance in the theory of boilers and surface condensers , that further investigation would seem to be justified , especially as , although the theory of the subject has been much studied , yet owing to practical difficulties , the constants involved , so far as the author is aware , have not been definitely determined for cases which occur in practice .
* PECLET'S experiments on the rate of transmission of heat from to water across a metal plate , throw much light on the question .
His experiments were made to determine the thermal conductivities of various metals by measuring the heat passed through a metal plate , one side of which was exposed to steam and the other to water which was kept agitated by a stirrer .
In these experiments , PECLET found thab the heat transmitted was sensibly independent of the nature and thickness of the metal used , the conclusion being that on each side of the plate there was a film of water through which the heat was transmitted by conduction , and that compared to whese , the thermal resistance of the plate was small .
This difficulty was overcome by an arrangement consisting of revolving brushes in ccntact with each side of the plate , so as to prevent the formation of a film the surfaces , and by keeping the water in a violent state of agitation .
In this way it was possible to keep the surfaces of the plate at the same temperature as the water in contact with them , and the conductivities of metals determined by this method agree with carefully determined conductivities obtained by other methods .
PECLET further pointed out , that before the brushes were used to prevent the * RANKINE'S ' Steam Engine , ' p. 266 .
'Traite de la Chaleur , ' p. 388 .
1 J. 97 nlabio of filtn , rapidity of the agitation of the water by the stirrer had a effect on the amount of heat transmitted .
This fact has been often observed in iments steam boilers , in which the rate of evaporation has been shown to upon the rapidity of the convection of the water in the boiler .
, in to determine the rate of transmission for the case of the ordinary ting surfaces of boilers , it would be necessary to first determine the rate of convection of the water to and from the surface .
The difficulty of measuring the convectio in such a case is very great , and seemed an effectual bar to all experiment .
means , however , of measuring the rate of convection appeared in the case of flowing through metal pipes , at fairly high velocities , which could be mined , and it is to this case that the experiments described are confined .
theory of the transfer of heat under these conditions has been stated by Professor OSBORNE REYNOLDS .
* According to this theory , the heat off by fluid from a surface is proportional to the internal diffusion of the fluid at or near the surface , that is , for a given difference of temperature between the fluid and the surface .
ofessor l Iurther points out that the rate of this diffusion will depend on\mdash ; ( 1 .
) natural internal diffusion of the fluid when at rest .
( 2 .
) The eddies caused by visible lnotio which mix the fluid up and continually bring fresh particles into contact with the surface , and that combined effect of these two causes may be expressed as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) , where t is the difference of temperature between the surface and the fluid , is the density of the fluid , its velocity , A and constants depending on the nature of the fluid ; being the heat transmitted per unit of surface in unit time .
In the paper experiments were described giving evidence in favour of the truth of the above theory .
The chief diiiiculty in any experimental determination of the rate of transmission in metal pi pes , lies in the fact that the temperature of the surface of the pipe varies point to point along the pipe , and again tends to adjust itself by lateral conduction along the pipe .
Hence , in order that any definite results may be obtained , it is necessary that the temperature of the pipe shall be constant throughout its length .
It oc , curl.ed to the .
that this result might be obtained in the following In fig. 1 , AB represents a tube placed vertically , and surrounded by a second tube , the annular space betweelt them being used as a water-jacket .
Now , if hot water at a temperature initially , flow down the water-jacket , , and cold water , at ature t flow down the pipe , then heat will be transmitted through the * Proceedings , Manchosbcl Lit. and Phil. Soc 1874 , p. 9 .
METAL SURFACES AND DS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
walls of the pipe to the cold water , and if the ntities of ter be the same in each case , the fall ofnperature of the jacket water will be equal to the rise of temperature of the water flowing tbrough the pipe , if means Fig. 1 .
are taken to prevent the escape of heat from the jacket water to the outer walls .
In this way , although the range of temperature from water to diminisbing , the mean value of is the same at all sections .
Now the temperature of the wall of the pipe at any cross section will not necessalily be a between values of and at that seciio but if the total fall of temperature from one end of the pipe to the other is small , say not more than C. , then under certain .ondition of flow which will be , we may fairly assume that the ratio of the differences of temperature between ( jacket ber and wall ) and between ( wall and water flowing through pipe ) is constant for the whole length of the pipe , and hence that the temperature of the pipe is constant throughout its length .
As regards the conditions of flow it is necessary to point out that if the motion in the pipe or the jacket is " " steady i.e. , the water flows in stream-lines parallel to the axis of the pipe , then the temperature of the water cannot be considered as uniform across any section of the pipe , and might vary considerably .
In order to avoid this condition of flow , all the experiments were made at velocities considerably higher than .
the critical velocity of water for the pipe in question ; this " " critical\ldquo ; velocity , as determined by Professor REyNOLDS ' experiments , *being given by the expression . . . . .
( 2 ) , where diameter of pipe in metres , temperature of the water , critical velocity in metres per second .
Equation ( 2 ) gives the critical velocity for the smooth lead pipes used in those experiments , and it may be assumed that the critical value of the velocity for smooth copper pipes does not vary greatly from this .
Under these conditions , and using an apparatus as described above , it seemed possible to study experimentally the transmission of heat from metal to and water to metal , at varying velocities and ranges of temperature , by careful observations of the initial and final temperatures of the water and the temperate , ures of the surface .
* ' Phil. , p. 976 .
The apparatus being made , before more complicated experiments were tried , it was necessary to test the truth of the above assumption that , at velocities greater than the critical value for the pipe , the temperature at any cross section was constant at all points in the section , not immediately adjacent to the surface of the hot pipe .
test this , the ) jacket were fixed vertically , with hot water at about C. flowing up the jacket , and water at initially flowing up the pipe .
A cap was fitted to the end of the pipe , having a small pipe , of ) the diameter of the outer one , projecting about 1 .
into it , as shown in fig. 2 .
In this way the the section AB was divided , the inner tion passing into the chamber the outer portion into the chamber , in which the temperatures were taken by thermometers .
It was found impossible to detect any difference in temperature between the ater taken from the centre of the pipe and that from the outside , and this even in cases when the velocity was considerably below the critical value , thus showing that when the temperature of water flowing through a pipe is continually changing motion is unsteady , even although the velocity is below the critical value .
Fig. 3 .
This may be trated by ] lowing experiment .
A glass jar , filled with , and having a glass pipe fixed to it , as shown in fig. 3 , and through which water may be drained , is , allowed to stand until the eddies in the water have died out .
tap is then opened at the bottom , and the water allowed to flow down the pipe .
If now a st , reak of highly-coloured water be allowed to pass into the pipe from the METAL SURFACES AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
tank , then , if the velocity is sufficiently low , this extends in a straight line down the tube , .
( This method of showing the stream-lines was used by Professor REYNOLDS in his experiments , has been fully described .
) If now the flame of a Bunsen be applied to the outside of the glass pipe , it will be noticed that the streak of colour soon begins to flicker , and finally up into eddies , and this for a very small rise of temperature of the water .
This experiment seems to explain the equality of temperatures observed in { , he case of the water taken from the heated copper tubes .
It was found , howeyer , that experiments made at velocities below the critical value were unreliable , owing to the rapid alter1lations between steady and unsteady motion which went on in the pipe .
was shown in the following way .
When the velocity was above the critical value , then for the criven temperature of the surface , the final temperature of the water was perfectly steady .
If now the velocity was reduced until near its critical value , it was observed that the mercury in the thermometer stem suddenly began to oscillate rapidly through a range of one , or sometimes two degrees , and that the time of these oscillations was about two seconds .
The table shows at velocity the unsteadiness comes in .
of ratureof w Now assuming that the critical velocity for the pipe used is given by metres per second , then for a temperature of so that the unsteadiness observed from the thermometer readings becomes marked at about a velocity of to 1 .
* ' Phil. Trans 1883 , p. 942 .
This result agrees remarkably with the results of Professor REYNOLDS ' experiments on the change of the law of resistance in pipes , in which he found a range of unsteadiin the pres , sure lying between and Description of the For the purpose of the experiments , three drawn copper tubes were obtained , the ickness of the metal being centim. , the length 48 centims. , and the internal meters b , , and 736 centims. respectively .
As it was necessary that the velocity of the jacket water should be as high as sibIe , in order that the motion in the jacket might be " " eddying\ldquo ; ( the critical velocity for such a case not having been yet determined ) , the distances between the outer surfaces of the pipe and the inner surface of the jacket was made as small as possible , consistent with the possibility of the required amount of water to flow through under the available pressure .
The jacket pipes were of brass , the width of the , iacketsf ) being 165 , 065 , 16 oentim .
for the three cases .
To sure a uniform density of the water at any cross section , it necessary to place the pipes in a vertical position , and , to make the ion of the water as unstable as possible , the water flowed downwards in each case .
The water used was obtained from a large tank in bhe tower of the College buildings , the head available being about 100 feet , which remained practicaIIy constant throughout the experiments .
It was found that the supply from the Town 's main was useless , owing to the varying pressure in the mains causing the flow to be unsteady .
Measurement of the To estimate the quantities of water passing through the pipe and jacket , two meters were required which would give correct values of the amount of water passing through them at any instant , and which should be sensitive , i.e. , would indicate once , the change in the flow due to an adjustment of the water valves .
In the early experiments , the water ran into cylindrical vessels with open tops , and thin lipped orifices , through which the water was discharged ; the discharge being estimated from the head of water in the vessel .
The objection to this form of meter is that the change in the " " head due to an alteration of the valve , takes place slowly , in some cases nearly a minute elapsing before the head of water in the vessel attains its new position .
Consequently the METAL SURFACES AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
adjustment of the valves to obtain exactly equal amounts of the ) and jacket became very and tedious .
To remedy this defect , two meters were made according to suggestions made by Mr. Foster of Owens College , and these proved successful .
form of the meter is shown in fig. 5 , and consists of a cylindrical tin box , 14 centims. diameter by 7 centims. deep .
The water enters at the centre , and over the flat plate , then radially guided by the radial to the central orificc , which is re-entrant .
When in use the meter is always full , and the motion is very steady .
The head is measured by the column of water the small ] tube , and flow read off on the scale , which is ibrated at intervals by eriment .
It was found that on re-adjustment of the water valves , the level of the water in OF almost instantly took up its proper position for the altered flow , so that it became an easy matter to set the two valves to give an equal flow of the desired amount .
circular orifices were made of the thinnest sheet brass procurable , soldered to brass plugs , which could be screwed into the bottom plate of the meter .
A set of three pairs of orifices was made , and the scale calibrated for each by experiment .
Method of Heating the As it was necessary to be able to adjust the initial ture of the and pipe water to any required value , two copper coils were made , out of tubing , the length being about 8 feet for each coil .
These contained in cast iron cylinders , which were connected to a ueam boiler , and were provided with suitable cocks and drains .
During every experiment it was found necessary to maintain the pressure in the boiler constant , as a variation of two pounds on the square inch in the boiler pressure had a considerable effect on the fin al temperature of the water through the coils .
By using steam in the cylinders surrounding the coils at 60 lbs. square inch pressure , it was possible to raise as much as 25 lbs. of water per minute through range of C. The arrangement of the heating coils is shown in fig. 4 .
surement of thw of the Pipes .
In the preliminary experiments it was attempted to measure the ture of the surface by meanus of a thermo-electric couple .
As the wire , had to be taken through the hot water in the jackets , considerable difficulty experienced insulating them , and although several attempts were made , consistent results could not be obtained , so that the method was abandoned .
A satisfactory means of measuring the surface temperature was fOund in the following way .
Since the of the metal was only centim. , and the heat , transmitted per square centim. per second was not in any case gl.eater than 10 thermal units , and in the rity of the } ) eriments was less than 5 thermal units , then , from the known conductivity of copper , the fall of temperature one side of the wall to would in most cases be less than and would never exceed .
Thus , if the mean temperature of the determined , then by applying a small correction to this , depending on the amount of heat transmitted , the surface temperature can be found .
The mean temperature of the pipe was found by obsel.ving the actual elongation of the copper pipe by of an extensometer , the arrangement being shown in fig. 5 .
A is a cast-iron standard , the upper face of which is planed , and into which the copper tube is screwed , the conn exion being as thin as possible , in order to prevent loss of heat from the pipe to the metal of the standard .
At a distance of inches METAL SURFACES AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH from the copper pipe a wrought-iron pipe surrounded by a water-jacket as shown .
During a set of experiments , water at a constant temperature is circulated up through the inner pipe passing into the jacket through the holes shown at the ) , and then down the jacket .
In this way , ) length of -iron pipe remain ] the upper end of bhis pipe a steel plate is attached , on the lower side of which ) the knife-edge of the ) someter bears , and which also carries the scale .
The extensometer consists of a lever working in a small bearing , at the of the ) ) , the short end carrying a thin , el knife-edge , and the long end to the , by means of which the extension of the copper pipe could be measured .
The extension was magnified by this means , so a movement of 1 millim. of the pointer represented in the temperatul.e of the pipe of with the esult that the temperature of the pipe could be estimated to of a degree .
and after any experiment , temperature to the given scale eating was determined by actual trial .
All the pipes and the exposed parts of the apparatus carefully lagged with cotton wool and sheet cork to prevent loss or reception of heat .
suremeni of T.Jmperature of the Water .
For carefully thermometers were used , of such a scale that within of a could be estimated .
These were fixed in small brass chambers which the water ssed on entering and leaving the pipes , the chalnbels being carefully lagged and placed as near the pipe as possible .
The were fitted lvith small stuffing boxes and screw ends to prevent are in section in fig. 5 .
As the difference in pressure between the water entering the pipe and leaving it small , no correction was found necessary for the observed readings .
In the experiments , at a pressure of about two atmospheres , it found the pressure had a small effect on the thermometer readings , due to compression of the bulb , but this not more C. To measure the pressure , Tee\ldquo ; joint connected to top of the copper , as shown in .
This " " tee\ldquo ; carried the extensometer lever in the centre , otle anch b connected to the water supply , and the other branch being connected to a mercury pressure gauge in the of a -tube .
To regulate the pressure to any desired amount , brass cocks were attached to the waste pipes leading from the pipe and jacket , which could be adjusted to produce the The joint between the copper -tlbe and the jacket pipe at the upper end was made -rubbcr ) and screwed , so as to allow free expansion of the pipe .
At the lower ends , where the pipe was fixed to the standard , the jacket pipe and inner pipe were oldered together .
Method cf fctking an xperiment .
In first , the inside of pipe cleaned by a small brusb , then the valves were set so that the lnount of .
was through the pipe METAL AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH and the jackets .
The water in each coil being to the same temperature , say , the ] reading taken .
The initial temperature of the water flowing through the pipe was then set to a given value , the temperature of the jacket water being so that the scale reading remained the same as before .
When the final temperature of the water flowing through the pipe became steady , its value was taken .
The temperatures of the pipe and jacket water were then again brought to the common value they had initially , and the scale reading again taken .
If this reed with the firsb reading , the experiment was taken as correct ; if not , ib rejected and another made .
The observations would be as follows:\mdash ; .\mdash ; Water , 148 grms. per second .
Mcasurement of Surface Te :\mdash ; Temperature of jacket water Sc reading , centims. pipe , , Measuremenf of Heat fted:\mdash ; lnitial temperature of water in pipe iackct Finad , , pipe jacket Checking Surface : \mdash ; Temperature of jacket water Scale leading , centims. pipo , Results of the Experiments .
Let temperature of the inner surface of the pipe in degrees Centigrade .
mean temperature of tho water in the pipe at any cross section .
velocity of the water through the pipe in centims. per second .
pressure of the water .
radius of the pipe in centims. of the pipe in centims. Then , for a small element of the internal of the pipe , we may write , for the case of transmission of heat from metal to Heat transmitted .
where and the function are to be determined by experiment .
From the description of the apparatus giyen above , it will be seen that the effec each of the quantities and , on the rate of can studied ] tely .
Thus , effcct of the velocity of the water , a of experiments were ) ryin ( yelociticsb , which values and constant .
I. Pressures of the Water , , , and constant .
Th following gives the CSlllts obtained : fcmpcraturoofwatcrFinal .
ocity .
of Pressure icrcurycentims .
Bise of of temper ( t ) Thesc1 llltl that for the given of p one to two , the , transmission is independent of the pressure .
II .
of Variation of Velocity , , , and constant .
About 50 nents of this kind were made .
As an example of the results the following table may be nlts of the water for the given of , \amp ; c. , is dependent of the velocity .
Thus , for an in the velocity of 80 ) cent. , ) rise of arure is only per cent. less , or in .
words , smitted for given range of temperature is nearly ) .
to the veloci } of the water .
hose experiments were repeated , then tried rent v of the , , but with the same results , the of ture varying from to METAL SURFAC 1 AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH III .
of Ranges of constant .
example , set of results may be quoted:\mdash ; Now if the heat transmitted under these conditions varied simply in the range of temperature , we should have had for the whole surface of pipe or , where whole surface of the pipe , nt , weight of water flowing through the pipe per second .
Now the values of for the experiments quoted are 222 , 218 , 213 respectively , which show that the heat transmitted is to ) multiplied by a function of the temperature IV .
of Varying the Initial Temperature , the range and 1oeing constant .
A set of experiments at centims. per second gave : turc .
These results show a considerable increase in the heat transmitted for the same range and velocity ; this increase , as will be seen by comparing Experiments III .
Iy .
, being greater than would be accounted for by the difference in the value of Other experiments made gave similar results .
Tbus , for a pipe of given diameter these.experiments indicate that the transmission of heat from the surface of the pipe to water flowing through it , at velocities above the critical value for the pipe used , is given by an expression of the form . . .
( 1 ) .
It is also seen that the values of do not vary very much from umity , and may probably be put in the form where and are constants to be determined by experiment .
, from Experiments II .
, it is seen that the heat transmitted is nearly proportional to the velocity , thus indicating the probable form of the velocity function , as where ?
is a number a little less unity , and to be by experiments at varying velocity .
It may be noticed that in equation ( 1 ) the value of may depend on the diameter of the and the nature of the surface .
The experiments made on the three drawn copper pipes , of diameter and 736 centim. , did , clearly indicate what the relation between and was , beyond showing that the effect of the variation in diameter of these pipes was not great , the supply of hot water from the heating coils not being sufficient to enable experiments to be made on pipes of larger diameter .
It is shown in the theory that the heat transmitted is proportional to the value of where has the value approximately .
This would make the heat transmitted across unit area of the surface of the smallest pipe ( centim. diameter ) about 10 per cent. greater than that transmitted through unit area of the surface of the ] pipe ( centim. diameter ) under the same conditions of flow and temperature .
The experiments described in this paper were originally made in order to determine , if possible , an expression for the rate of transmission of heat from metal surfaces to METAL SURFACES AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
water , without reference to the theory , and which expression has been shown to be of the form given in equation ( 1 ) .
The Author is indebted to Professor OSBORNE REYNOLDS , who kindly offered to look through the paper before publication , for the ] owing theory of the subject .
The outline of this theory , as has been previously stated , was published in 1874 .
The discov.ery of the law of resistance in parallel nnels , made by Professor REYNOLDS , in 1.883 enables this tbeory to be definitely stated .
this t , heory , the motion of heat of the pipe follows the same laws as the motion of momentum to the surface , whether by conduction or convection ( though not by radiation and absorption , the material , which unquestionably pIays an important part in the so-called conduction of tyater ) .
Taking as the direction of motion , radius of pipe , temperature of the water , temperature of surface of pipe , weight of volume of water , pressure of water per unit area , weight of water discharged per second , velocity of the water the pipe , , and constants depending on the nature of the surface .
Then , ) the velocity , the los of pressure is given by the equation ' Writing this in the form .
( 1 ) , then , in ( 1 ) , is the loss of momentum due to diffusion and convection , so , according to the above theory , substituting for and for * ' Proc. Manches{er Lit. and Phil. Society , ' 1874 , p. 8 .
'Phil .
Trans 1883 , p. 976 .
Phil. ' 188.3 , p. 976 , the equation for the passage of heat will be ( 2 ) , or writing the slope of temperature along the pipe is given by .
( 3 ) .
This is .
that the conductivity of the water , as compared with the viscosity , does not enter ; but as it probably does , for ultimately it is conductivity by which the heat passes from the wadls of the pipe to the water , there will probably be a coefficient , the form of which can be determined by experiment .
Application of ofessor REYNOLDS ' to the Experiments .
Assuming the variation in the alue of to be small , say , not greater than in the whole length of the pipe , then , integrating equation ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , where initial temperature of the water in the pipe , final , length of the pipe , mean value of , for the water in the pipe .
Now , from equation ( 4 ) value of be debermined by a set of experiments , in which the same value in each .
This was done by the logarithmic homologues of and when it was found that the points plotted all lay approximately on a straight line , there bein no systematic deviation .
METAL SURFACES AND LTQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
For the three pipes used in the experiments the slopes of the logarithmic homologues were found to be:\mdash ; For pipe No. 1 , centim. diameter ; slope , or No. 2 , , , , , , , , or No. 3 , 736 , , , , , , , or In pipe No. 1 , the velocities of the water had values between and centims. per second .
In pipe No. 3 , the velocities of the water had values between 60 and centims. per second .
It will be seen that the values of given above correspond with the values we should expect to find for smooth copper pipes from the law of the resistances , the value for glass being about , and for smooth metal rather higher , rising to a value of 2 for rough metal surfaces .
Effect of Viscosity Conductivity .
If the conductivity of the water at the bounding be neglected , then for experiments at constant velocity equation ( 4 ) gives the , value of constant for different values of Referring to the results given in the tables , it is seen the vadue of this expression rises with the value of the mean temperature of the water , which seems to show that the conductivity of the water at the boundaly has an effect .
It was also seen , in the experiments quoted above , p. 79 , that the heat transmitted depended on the values of and , and that this effect would be represented by coefficients of the form and .
From experiments at constant values of and , the value of is found to be and that of is The of temperature of the water in the pipe is then given by ( 5 ) .
Now for smooth metal pipes the value of may be assumed constant , so for a pipe of given } , and diameter in which the surface temperature is constant , ( 6 ) where is a consbant depending on the nature the surface of the pipe .
For the ranges of temperature obtained in these experiments no sensible error is introduced by taking the value of and for the experiment and them in equation ( 6 ) .
When the variation in is considerable , equation ( 5 ) must be integrated more exactly .
Applying equation ( 6 ) to the results of the experiments on the three copper pipes used , the values of are found to If weight of water flowing through the pipe in grammes per second , equation ( 5 ) may be written ( 7 ) , which gives for the transmission of heat from to per square centim. of the surface of the pipe ( 8 ) , gramme-degrees per second .
METAL SURFACES AND LTQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
Case of Transmission of Heat from to The theory for this case is the same as in the transmission of heat from the surface to the water , so far as the convection of the heat is concerned .
It seemed probable that the conductivity coefficients would also be the same , but on experiment this was found not to be so , the viscosity in this case having a much greater effect , the results of the experiments being that the heat transmitted was nearly inversely proportional to the mean viscosity of the film of liquid the surface , so that the conductivity coefficient can be put in the form where is the mean value of for the experiment , and For this case equation ( 5 ) now takes the form ( 9 ) .
The results of experiments made under these conditions are given in Table V. , and the of calculated .
These values do not show quite such a high degree of consistency as the values of deduced the other experiments , but this is probably due to the difficulty of working un der the given conditions .
Other experiments in which ] heat flowed from water to metal were ade , but always with the result that the transmitted was sensibly inversely proportional to the mean viscosity of the film at the sul.face , the deviation being never greater than 7 per cent. The nission of Heat from the Jacket Water to the External of the Fipe .
During all the experiments the temperatures of the jacket water were taken , so that the rate of heat transmission from the jacket water to the surface of the pipe could be calculated .
It was found in this case also that the transmission of heat was sensibly inversely proportional to the mean viscosity of film of water at the surface of the pipe , the value of the conductivity coefficient being always slightly less than the mean value of for the film of water .
This is shown in Table VT .
, in which the product in the last term is calculated on assumption that the effect of velocity and range of temperature is the same as in the previous cases .
It was found from these experiments on the jacket water that the ] of ) is practically the same as in the case of the pipe , the value for thejacket of No. 1 pipe being The results stated in Tables V. and VI .
would , therefore , seem to show that the conductivity coefficients in the passage of heat between a metal surface and water in contact with it , will depend , in their value , on the direction of the flow of heat , the viscosity of the film of water at the surface much less effect when the heat flows from metal to water than when the flow is in the opposite direction .
The experiments were made in the Whitworth Engineering Laboratory , Owens College , in 1895 and 1896 , the author being at that time Demonstrator in Engineering in Owens College .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Copper Pipe , No. I. centims. long , centim. diameter .
Value of TABLE II.\mdash ; Copper Pipe , No. I. centims. long , centim. diameter .
Value of METAL SURFACES AND LIQUIDS IN CONTACT WITH THEM .
TABLE III .
Pipe , No. II .
centims. long , centims. diameter .
Value of TABLE IV.\mdash ; Copper Pipe , No. III .
46 centims. long , centim. diameter .
Values of TABLE V. smission of Heali from Water to Metal .
Copper Pipe No. II .
centims. long , centims. diameter .
Value of TABLE VI.\mdash ; Experiments on Jacket Water of No. I. Pipe .
Area of Jacket sq .
centim. Value of * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 9.75 * * Values of

