On a Periscopic Camera Obscura and Microscope .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read June 11 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 370 .
] The same views which the author originally had of the periscopic construction of spectacles , naturally suggested to him a corresponding improvement in the camera obscura .
But though it is evident that enlargement of the field of view , and some improvement in the distinctness of images obliquely situated , might be made by causing each part of a lens to be as nearly as may be at right angles to each pencil of rays that are to be collected to a focus , it was not clear to what extent this principle could be carried where the portion of lens is necessarily large , and consequently includes parts that may require a different form for preserving distinctness of other pencils of rays .
He has , accordingly , made trial of different forms of meniscus for this purpose , and describes the construction which appears to possess the greatest advantage with least detriment to the brilliancy and distinctness of objects centrally situated .
TIhe radii of curvature here preferred are in the proportion of 2 to 1 .
A meniscus so formed is placed with its convex surface towards the plane of representation , and with its concavity toward the objects .
The aperture of the lens itself is made as large as the tools will conveniently admit , but the pencil of rays admitted to it in each direction is limited by a diaphragm , placed between it and the objects at about one eighth of its focal length from the lens , and having an opening about one tenth or one eleventh of the focal length in diameter .
By means of a camera thus constructed , the author observes , that objects as far as 30 ?
removed from its centre are represented with considerable distinctness on the same plane as objects centrally situated .
The author also describes a microscope which he terms periscopic , because it is formed on the same principle of endeavouring to place all portions of a lens at right angles to the pencils transmitted through it in different directions .
In the microscope this is effected by placing two plane convex lenses on opposite sides of the same aperture in a piece of thin metal interposed between their plane surfaces .
The central opening being by that means nearly in the centre of curvature , no rays are suffered to pass to the eye but what are at right angles to both surfaces ; and a field of view of at least 20 ?
is obtained with a greater degree of illumination than can be admitted in the usual construction .
The paper is accompanied by a diagram for determining , by inspection , the various combinations of radii that will give to a meniscus any required focal length .

