XVIII .
" On the Development of Carcinus M &amp; enas .
" By SPENCE BATE , Esq. , F.L.S. Communicated by Sir W. SNOW HARRIS , F.R.S. Received May 1st 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after noticing the history of the subject , and the opposition which the assertion , " that the Zoe of naturalists is the larva of a common crab , " received , traces the progress of the development of the animal from the Zoea to the adult , and endeavours to demonstrate , that from the youngest to the most perfect form , the changes are the result of no sudden transformation , but produced hy a gradual series of alterations contemporary with every succeeding moult ; that the Zcea is connected with the AlMealopa , and the latter with the adult by many intermediate gradations , each in itself scarcely appreciable , and progressively approximating nearer and nearer the more perfect stages .
The author asserts that the development is earliest and most complete anteriorly ; that when first born , the seventh or posterior segment of the head , one or more of the posterior segments of the pereion ( thorax ) , and the penultimate of the pleon ( abdomen ) are wanting in the brachyurous Decapods ; but that this general law loses somewhat of its force in the descending scale of development ; and as it becomes less persistent , the animal approximates in the larval condition nearer to the form of the adult type ; while on the other hand , the same appears to be a constant law of the depreciation in adult forms , as exhibited in the more or less aberrant Amphipoda , such as Cyrtophium , Dulichia , &amp;c. The author likewise shows that the appendages , which act the principal parts in the larvae , become the secondary parts of the same organs in the perfect animal .
For instance , the lower antenna is represented in the larva by the comnplementary appendage of the adult form ; the true antenna is developed from the base of the embryonic organ , which represents the squamiform and spinous appendages , more or less constant in the mucrourous Decapods , but lost in the short-tailed genera , and the organ itself is gradually increased with every successive moult .
This is true , more or less perfectly , of all the other appendages present in the larvae of all Decapoda ; and no change of form , as understood in the term metamlorphosis as applied to insects , takes place in the development of Carcinus .
That the distance between the old and young forms is the result of an exaggeration of parts in the larva as compared with the relative proportion of the same in adult animals , together with the absence of others , which are gradually produced , and assume the permanent condition of the adult type .
The author has observed the rudiments of the future legs shortly after birth .
He has dissected and figured eight or nine of the more important stages , and shown the relative alteration of each part consecutively , commencing with the Zoea taken from the egg , and pursued the observations through the older forms to that of the adult Carcinus .
The paper is carefully illustrated by drawings made by the author .

