504 On a Meteoric Stone .
Operators in Mathematics .
[ Feb. 2 , II .
" On a Meteoric Stone found at Makariwa , near Invercargill , New Zealand .
" By G. H. F. Ulrich , F.G.S. , Professor of Mining and Mineralogy in the University of Dunedin , N.Z. Communicated by Professor J. W. Judd , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The specimen described in this memoir was found in the year 1879 in a bed of clay which was cut through in making a railway at Invercargill , near the southern end of the Middle Island of New Zealand .
Originally this meteorite appears to have been about the size of a man 's fist , and to have weighed 4 or 5 lbs. , but it was broken up , and only a few small fragments have been preserved .
The stone evidently consisted originally of an intimate admixture of metallic matter ( nickel iron ) and of stony material , but much of the metallic portion has undergone oxidation .
Microscopic examination of thin sections shows that the stony portion , which is beautifully chondritic in structure , contains olivine , enstatite , a glass , and probably also magnetite , and through these stony materials the nickel iron and troilite are distributed .
The specific gravity of portions of the stone was found to vary between 3*31 and 3'54 , owing to the unequal distribution of the metallic particles .
A partial chemical examination of this meteorite was made by the author and Mr. James Allen , but the complete analysis has been undertaken by Mr. L. Fletcher , F.R.S. , of the British Museum .
The analysis , which when finished will be communicated to this Society , has gone so far as to show that the percentage mineral composition of the Makariwa meteorite may be expressed approximately by the following numbers r nickel iron 1 , oxides of nickel and iron 10 , troilite 6 , enstatite 39 , -olivine 44 .
III .
" On Operators in Physical Mathematics .
Part I. " By Oliver Heaviside , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1892 .
Connexion between a Flux and a Force through an Operator .
1 .
In the investigation of physical questions we often have to answer such a question as this : Given a force / , a function of the time , acting at one place in a connected system , find the effect F , of some given type , produced by the force at its own or some other place .
Or it may be that it is not an impressed force that is given , hut displacement of some kind .
Or , in order to produce mathe-

