1873 .
] On a new Formula fo a Microscope Object-ylass .
11 ] ._A_ H , and 3jNH " + _\gt ; v_ N and 3N03HNH^( : :3N03+4NH3 ) .
Positive electrodes of silver , lead , copper , zinc , and magnesium are dissolved by the liquid as ( ammoniated ) nitrates .
A positive electrode of mercury is converted into a compound almost insoluble in the liquid .
When the electrode is acted upon , the generation of nitrogen does not take place .
January 16 , 1873 .
T. ARCHER HIRST , Ph. D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , Mr. Spottiswoode proposed and Admiral Richards seconded the Right Hon. Hugh Culling Eardley Childers , Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , for election and immediate ballot .
The ballot having been taken , Mr. Childers was declared duly elected .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " A new Formula for a Microscope Object-glassBy F. H. Wenham .
Communicated by W. B. Carpenter , M.D. , F.R.S. Received October 31 , 1872 .
A pencil of rays exceeding an angle of 40 ' from a luminous point cannot be secured with less than three superposed lenses of increasing focus and diameter , by the use of which combination rays beyond this angle are transmitted , with successive refractions in their course , towards the posterior conjugate focus : until quite recently , each of these separate lenses has been partly achromatized by its own concave lens of flint glass , the surfaces in contact with the crown glass being of the same radius , united with Canada balsam ; the front lens has been made a triple , the middle a double , and the back again a triple achromatic .
This combination therefore consists of eight lenses , and the rays in their passage are subject to errors arising from sixteen surfaces of glass .
In the new form there are but ten surfaces , and only one concave lens of dense flint is employed for correcting four convex lenses of crown glass : as this might at first sight be considered inconsistent with theory , a brief retrospect of the early improvements of the microscope object-glass will help to define the conditions .
The knowledge of its construction has been entirely in the hands of working opticians ; and the information published on the subject being scanty , this has probably prevented the scientific analyst from giving that aid which might have been expected .
Previous to the year 1829 a few microscopic object-glasses were made , composed of three superposed achromatic lenses ; but this combination Mr. F. H. Wenham a new Formula [ Jan. 16 , appears to have been used merely with the intention of gaining an increase of power , in ignorance of any principle , and without even a knowledge of the value of angular aperture .
At this time the late J. J. Lister tried a number of experiments , and discovered the law of the aplanatic focus , and proved that , by separating lenses suitably corrected , there were one or two positions in which the spherical aberration was balanced .
This was explained in a paper read before the Eoyal Society in 1829 .
In the year 1831 Mr. Eoss was employed to construct the first achromatic object-glass in accordance with this principle , which performed with " a degree of success never anticipated .
" Mr. Eoss then discovered that , after he had adjusted the interval of his lenses for the aplanatic focus , that position would no longer be correct if a plate of thin glass was placed above the object ; this focus had then to be sought in a different plane , and the lenses brought closer together , in order to neutralize the negative aberration caused by covering-glass of various thickness .
From this period the " adjustment " with which all our best object-glasses are now provided became established .
Fig. 1 is the form of object-glass used at this time , consisting of three planoconcave achromatics , whose foci were nearly in the proportion of 1,2,3 .
No greater angle than 60 ' could be obtained with this system in a g-inch objective ( the highest power then made ) , for reasons apparent in the diagram .
The excessive depth of curvature of the contact-surfaces of the front pair is unfavourable for the passage of the marginal rays ; the softness of the flint glass forming the first plane was also objectionable .
In the year 1837 Mr. Lister gave Mr. Eoss a diagram for an improved " eighth , " having a triple front lens in the form shown in fig. 2 .
By this the passage of extreme rays was facilitated ; and in order to diminish the depth of curvature , a very dense glass was used , having a specific gravity of 4*351 .
Faraday 's glass , having a density of 6*4 , had been previously tried , but was abandoned on account of a difficulty in working it .
The polished surfaces of both these qualities of dense glass speedily became tarnished by exposure to the air ; and thus the dense flint concave could only be employed in a triple combination , that is , when cemented between two lenses of crown glass : this form of front was kept a trade secret , and was not published in any work treating of the optics of the microscope .
The front incident surface of the flint of the middle pair was made concave , in order to reduce the depth of the contact ; and for this reason only , as that surface has but little influence in correcting the oblique pencils , or in producing flatness of field , and may be a plane with an equally good or better result .
" Eighths " of this form with angles of 80 ' were made , and remained unaltered till the year 1850 , when larger apertures were called for , and Mr. Lister introduced the triple back lens .
The necessity for this will be seen by the diagram ( fig. 2 ) , which shows for a Microscope Object-glass .
1873 .
] that the contact-surfaces of the back achromatic are too deep , thus giving great thickness to the lens and limiting its diameter : dense flint would have remedied this to some extent ; but its liability to tarnish Mr. F. H. Wenham on a new Formula [ Jan. 16 , rendered its use in a pair objectionable .
The highest density at this time known , quite free from this defect , was 3-686 .
By means of the triple back , the final corrections were rendered less abrupt , a greater portion of the marginal rays could be collected , and the aperture of an " eighth " was at once brought up to 130 ' or more .
At this time the author had been making some experiments in the construction of an object-glass in the form of fig. 2 .
Mr. Lister having favoured his " eighth " with an examination , was good enough to communicate his late improvement of the triple back .
No time was lost in giving this a trial , the result of which proved that excessive negative aberration or over-correction could readily be commanded with lenses of shallow contact-curves .
During these trials all chromatic correction was obtained by alterations in the triple ; for it was found that the colour-correction could not be controlled by a change in the concave surface of the triple front , as the negative power of the flint here appeared to be feeble , requiring a great difference in radius to give a trifling result .
For this reason the front concaves were formed of very dense and highly dispersive flint ; the cause of this was analyzed by a large diagram , with the passage of the rays projected through the combination , starting from the longest conjugate focus at the back .
This proved that the rays from that focus passed through the concave flint of the front nearly as a radius from its centre , or in such a direction that its negative influence was almost neutralized .
It is well known that a lens may be achromatic for parallel rays , and under-corrected for divergent ones .
The utmost extent of this condition was apparent in the object-glass under consideration .
This led the author to the idea of the single front lens of crown glass , which gave a fine result at the first attempt , as the back combinations to which it was applied happened to have a suitable excess of negative or over-correction existing in the triple back alone , the middle being neutral or nearly achromatic .
Still there was a defect remaining as positive spherical aberration ; and this was afterwards cured by giving additional thickness to the front lens , which is now recognized as a most essential element of correction .
In a " fifteenth , " for instance , a difference of thickness of only -002 of an inch will determine the quality between a good and an indifferent glass .
Fig. 3 represents a front lens suitable for bringing the back rays to a focus .
The dotted lines indicate the effect of this difference , showing that with a lens of less thickness the marginal rays fall within the central , producing positive aberration as the result .
The single front introduced by the author is now used by every maker ; for several years he could not induce the leading opticians to change their system , though challenged by a series of high powers constructed on this formula , for the purpose of proving its superiority .
Fig. 4 represents the curves of the first successful " eighth " on this system , having an aperture of 130 ' , enlarged ten times .
On tracing the passage of 1873 .
] for a Microscope Object-glass .
115 the marginal rays through the combination , it will be seen that , though the successive refractions are nearly equalised , the contact-surfaces of the middle pair are somewhat deep , though no over-correction existed or was needed here , for this would have required a shorter radius still ( the density of the flint in this was 3-686 ) .
If this pair of lenses were not cemented with Canada balsam , total reflection would take place near the circumference of the contact flint surface , cutting off the marginal rays at a , and limiting the aperture .
It might be argued that practically this would be no disadvantage , as these surfaces are united with Canada balsam , whose refraction is higher than the crown ; so that the rays in this case must proceed with very little deviation .
But incidences beyond the angle of total reflection may be considered detrimental , as they imply excessive depth of curvature ; this can be discovered by looking through the front of an object-glass held close to the eye , any air-films in the balsam near the edge of the lens appearing as opaque black spots .
At the commencement of the present year the author caused a few object-glasses to be made , with a middle of the form of fig. 5 , the performance of which was very satisfactory .
In this the extreme rays pass at more favourable incidences , and within the angle of total reflection .
The upper lens is of dense flint .
When the experiments on the single front were concluded , and the remarkable corrective power of the triple back in conjunction therewith had been proved , the next attempt was to make the middle also a single lens , leaving the entire colour-correction to be performed by the one biconcave flint in the back .
After numerous trials it was found that though something like over-correction or negative aberration could be obtained with the back , in the degree requisite for balancing the under-correction of the single middle and front when set at the prescribed distance of the aplanatic focus , yet by trial on the mercury globule all the results invariably displayed two separated colour-rings : these could not be combined by any alteration in the radius of the lenses .
By projecting the blue and red , or visible rays of greatest and least refrangibility through the system , the cause became apparent .
The left-hand section of this object-glass is shown in fig. 6 .
The rays from the focus are slightly divided by the first front surface .
On emerging from the back the separation is increased ; the red ray ( r ) is outwards , and the more refrangible or blue ray ( b ) inwards .
Next , the divergence of these two rays is extended by the middle single lens .
The following crown lens extend .
' the angle of divergence so far that the flint lens of the back triple canno .
recombine them ; and they emerge at two distinct zones , shown by the practical test of the " artificial star " or light-spot reflected from a mercury globule , viewed within and without the focus .
It might be supposed that these rays at their final emergence can be so refracted as to project the blue outwards .
A crossing point would then occur at a fixed conjugate focus in the body of the microscope , at Mr. F. H. Wenham a new Formula [ Jan. 16 , which all rays would be combined ; and if this focus was adjusted to that of the eyepiece , achromatism and final correction would be the result .
But to meet the various conditions occurring in the use of the microscope , the conjugate focus constantly alters in position , this 1873 .
] for a Microscope Object-glass .
being affected by every change of eyepiece , length of tube , or adjustment for thickness of cover ; therefore a correction for a fixed point cannot be maintained .
Achromatism in the microscopic object-glass , like that of other perfectly corrected optical combinations , must be the reunion of the rays of the spectrum close to the final emergent surface of the system .
The remedy suggested by these experiments appeared to be in a transposition , that is , in placing the over-corrected triple in the middle of the entire object-glass ; this would at once cause a convergence of the blue and red rays .
A single lens of longer focus at the back would then bring these rays parallel at the point of final emergence .
By projection in a diagram this condition was apparently realized .
The dispersive power of the flint ( density 3'686 ) was taken by the refractive index 1-76 of line H in the blue ray of the spectrum , and 1/ 70 of line B in the red ray .
The refraction of the corresponding rays in the crown ( density 2-44 ) was 1/ 53 H and 1/ 51 B. With these indices the rays are traced in fig. 6 .
The radii in the right-hand half section are those of an " eighth " of the new form drawn twenty times the size of the original .
The single front is of the usual form , as this is much alike in all cases .
The radius or focus of the single plano-convex back is about four and a half times that of the front , and the focus of the middle ( triple ) three times .
The passage of the blue and red rays at the extreme of the pencil is shown in contrast with the preceding , the separation from the same front being alike .
The inner and outer , or blue and red rays , after passing the first surface of the triple middle , meet the concaves of the flint , which refract the blue rays to a greater extent than the red , and cause them to converge ( instead of diverging , as in the opposing half diagram ) , so that at their exit from the triple they meet and would cross , effecting what is known as " over-correctionbut this is so balanced and readjusted by the single back of crown glass , that the rays are finally united , and emerge in a state of parallelism .
This form of object-glass is suitable for the high powers , or such as have a cover adjustment , viz. from the " 4-inch " upwards ; perfect colour-correction is equally to be obtained in all of them .
It may be asked by some who have devoted their attention to the higher branches of optical mathematics , why the above result should have been worked out entirely by diagrams .
But it has been found such a difficult task to calculate the passage of the two rays of greatest and least refrangibility through a combination having sixteen surfaces of glass of three different densities and refractions , that even first-class mathematicians have hitherto shrunk from the attempt .
Diagrams , however , are surprisingly accurate in their capability of indicating causes and results in the microscope and object-glass ; for these lenses are minute , with deep curves and abrupt refractions ; so that if the projection is worked out some fifty times the size of the original , 118 On a new Formula for a Microscope Object-glass .
[ Jan. 16 , small errors can be detected .
The work should be commenced at the back from a long conjugate focus , which , not being a constant distance , may be taken as very near to parallelism .
The high powers all have the means of correction within this distance , and perform better with a long posterior focus than with a very short one .
The relative indices for the two or more rays should be marked on a large pair of proportional compasses , the long limb representing the sine of the angle of incidence , and the short one that of refraction .
Both the sines ought to be set off in the diagram behind , and neither of them in front of the ray in course of projection ; this leaves the way clear , with the least confusion of lines .
At the same time a second or counterpart diagram should be at hand , to which the rays only are transferred as soon as their direction is ascertained ; with these precautions a mistake is scarcely possible .
Now it is hoped that some improvements may be effected by this investigation , on account of the simplicity attained in the combination , in which we have two single lenses of crown , whose foci bear a definite proportion to each other ; while all the corrections are performed by one concave of dense flint , the acting condition of which is not altered by the influence of any other concaves acting in the combination , and hitherto taking a share of the duty .
This one flint is now to be considered singly as the heart and centre of the system in reference to the correction of the rays entering and leaving .
This memoir is of necessity incomplete , for want of definite information concerning the optical properties of various kinds of glass .
Data obtained from working them into small lenses furnish only a rough approximation to the mean dispersive power of the combined flint and crown having the best apparent effect .
Of the intermediate rays , little can be known beyond the mere appearance of more or less of a secondary spectrum .
Nothing of importance has been published since Fraunhofer 's Table , containing the refractive indices for each of the seven primary colourlines of the spectrum for ten kinds of glass : great advance has been effected since that date in the manufacture of optical glass , a most complete collection of which of every variety has been made by the Bosses up to the present date .
Selected specimens from this will be worked into prisms , and the relative spectra mapped out by the Fraunhofer lines , leading , it is hoped , to the discovery of a combination of crown and flint glass which shall be free from secondary spectrum or absolutely achromatic .
The result of this investigation will be the subject of a future communication .

