PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1833-J834 .
No. 15 .
December 5 , 1833 .
JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Esq. , M.A. , V.P. and Treasurer , in the Chair .
James Copland , M.D. ; Edwin Pearson , Esq. , M.A. ; and Charles Terry , Esq. , were elected Fellows of the Society .
December 12 , 1833 .
FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Reports received by the Secretaries , from Sir John Herschel , Professor Airy , and Captain Smyth , on the Fluid-lens Telescope constructed for the Royal Society on Mr. Barlow 's principles , were , by direction of His Royal Highness the President and Council , read to the Society at this meeting .
Sir John Herschel 's Report .
I have seen Mr. Barlow 's telescope at Cambridge , and examined it on several objects , in a very fine night , the 25th ( if I remember ) of June .
As I have now no time to give it any further trial at Slough , ( where 1 have no longer , either , any achromatic telescope of sufficient power to compare it with , all my apparatus being dismounted and in course of packing , ) I will here state in few words , as my report on it , all I could then collect velative to its action .
1 .
Achromaticity . ?
Mr. Barlow 's telescope is remarkably free from the dispersion of colour , very much more so than I could have expected from the nature of the correcting medium , and nearly or quite as much as could be desired .
2 .
Light . ?
The great aperture is very efficient under moderate powers on faint objects ; and it concentrates the smaller stars well , and would , I have no doubt , show the larger nebulae , &amp; c , and be well available as a sweeping telescope .
3 .
Distinctness . ?
Very good with powers under 100 or 150 ; but on the occasion on which I tried it , it seemed to break down under high powers , and there was evidently a considerable want of correc ?
tion of spherical aberration .
As I had no opportunity of trying it in different temperatures , I cannot say whether this want of correction might not disappear in a different temperature , ?
it was about 65 ?
when I looked through it , ?
neither could I ascertain whether this 246 ' arose from the glasses not being at the right distances , there being no means , or the means not having been explained to me , by which the correcting lens could be got at , to shift it .
4 .
A very troublesome degree of colour out of the centre of the field .
This report is of course too meagre and imperfect to conclude much from , but as both Capt. Smyth and Prof. Airy have examined it in much detail , I the less regret that my present circumstances will not allow of my going further into the subject .
J. F.W.Herschkl .
July &lt; 23 , 1833 .
Professor Airy 's Report .
From the pressure of business I have had fewer opportunities of trying the telescope than I could have desired .
The absence of bright planets also has prevented me from attending so much as I wished to what I regard as the most important point in this construction , namely , the correction of colour .
1 have , however , had one excellent opportunity of observing the moon , and have observed several stars , single and double , and do not think that my opinion could have been altered by a greater number of observations .
The correction of colour is not complete , but it is much more nearly complete than I expected , and very much more so than in a smaller telescope of Mr. Barlow 's construction which I tried several years since .
The colour is so far removed that it is not oflensive till a power of 300 is used .
But with regard to this colour , there is one point of great importance to be noticed by any person who shall try the telescope in future .
It is that , in consequence of the separation of the object lenses , the only part of the field which can possibly be free from colour with a common eyepiece is in the line passing through the centres of the two object lenses ; and that from the present imperfect centering , this line falls actually outof the field of the highest power ( or quite on the edge ) .
An eyepiece of a different construction and adjusted with greater care is necessary before any positive decision can be given .
With regard to the de ?
finition of a star , it is not at present good , and the telescope is decidedly incompetent to separate any close star ; but I regard this as a fault in the making of the surfaces , to which any telescope is liable , and which does not interfere at all in my estimation of the value of the new principle of construction .
I know not how far a circumstance mentioned by Mr. Dollond ( the alteration of spherical aberration with an alteration of temperature ) may account for this ?
but so much of the irregularities are cut off by cutting off the external ring of the object glass , that 1 have no doubt of its being due principally to the figure .
My opinion is , therefore , that a larger telescope , as good of its kind as the present , would be very useful for nebulse , &amp;c. ; and that if freed from defects , which do not appear to belong to the construction , it might be equal to any astronomical work except the examination of bright planets .
I have had the advantage of trying the telescope once in company with Sir John Herschel , Sir David Brewster , Mr. Cooper , Dr. Robinson , and Professor Hamilton , and their opinion upon the whole coincided nearly with mine .
I beg to suggest the propriety of attaching a finder to the telescope , as much time is lost in seeking for any object .
G ?
B. Airy .
June 20 , 1833 .
Captain Smylh 's Report .
I beg you will inform His Royal Highness the President , and the Council of the Royal Society , that I have this day packed up the fluid refracting telescope of which they have done me the honour of asking my opinion , and that it will be forwarded to Professor Airy without delay .
It might indeed have been sent to Cambridge sooner , but that I waited for the first quarter of the present moon , to test the light and the performance of the instrument ; but I regret that though I was constantly upon the spot , the weather has prevented my having an opportunity of catching her , till she was past her dichotomy , and consequently too glaring for the purpose .
On the arrival of the telescope , it was carefully unpacked , and immediately mounted , for the moment , on the lower slab of the revolving roof of my polar-axis room .
It was fitted by its two pivots to the iron crutch which was sent with it , the upper parts of which were cut into Y 's : the inner end was supported by Mr. Dollond 's ingenious " eyeend stand .
" The instrument , however , was liable to tremor , both from the motion of the roof and the floor ; but it enabled me to ex ?
amine a few objects while poles were being prepared to form a better stage outside the observatory .
And I should remark , that it was arranged with Professor Airy , who favoured me with a visit on the occasion , that my experiments were to be entirely confined to the performance of the telescope , while he would investigate its principle .
My portion was to be governed by direct comparisons with my refractor , as a standard from which to assume the relative merits of the two .
That instrument has a double object-glass of 5~ , Vhs inches clear aperture , and 8-Jfeet focal length ; a space which I have good reason to think is accurately proportioned to the densities of the crown and flint glasses : and notwithstanding the magnitude of the diame ?
ters , the curves of the lenses seem in tolerably exact chromatic and spherical aberration throughout .
It may therefore be presumed to be a more severe reference than the dimensions alone would suggest .
The temporary stage alluded to , outside the observatory , consists of two upright beams of fir , firmly driven into the bed of gravel which forms the substratum of the garden , and a cross-bar , strongly screwed , supports the iron crutch with its Y 's .
This is erected close to a platform and pier , which were built for some magnetic experiments , and afforded great facility in attending to the outer lens , and augmenting or diminishing its aperture .
While looking towards the south , itcommanded from nearly a horizontal view to above 60 ?
of elevation ; and by unshipping it , and turning it northwards , it swept the polar region .
Such being the means , it remains faithfully to report what I observed , regretting , at the same time , that the weather has continued mostly un favourable .
t Monday , Feb. 25 , 1833 . ?
The evening cleared off , and was very fine from 8 till nearly 11 o'clock p.m. At 7 , I placed the instrument on its stand ; at 9 , the thermometer was 37 ?
*6 , the barometer 29*32 , and the hygrometer *771 3 and the wind was at S.E. 1 .
The Moon . ?
The examination of the lunar cavities and shadows was rather unsatisfaetory .
Under the powers 250 and 400 , it bore the whole aperture ; but with 90 and 1 ; * &gt; 0 , there were two spectra , one of which haunted the centre .
In definition , the fluid was excelled by the flint-glass , both instruments being very steady .
2 .
The great Nebula in Orion . ?
This mass was seen very fairly with the whole aperture 3 and the trapezium was beautifully distinct under all the powers except that of 400 .
From the examination of this object , the best performance seems to be with the eyepieces 150 and 250 .
The relative light of the flint-glass and the fluid-refractors , when the latter was reduced to six inches of aperture , appeared very nearly equalised .
3 .
Venus . ?
This trial was altogether unsatisfaetory , from the strong irradiation and the quantity of loose light .
The planet was , however , low down in the west , in a stratum of niist .
The only power used was the one of 90 times j but there was a great defect in distinctness .
4 .
Rigel . ?
This star was in the S.W. , and rather low ?
, it was therefore , as might have been expected , surrounded with teasing rays , through which I had some difficulty in detecting the small companion .
The star had a spurious but broken disc , and was full of colours in every part of the field except the centre , where they were partially destroyed .
Powers 150 and 250 .
Tuesday , Feb. 26 , 1833 . ?
At 9 in the morning , with the thermo ?
meter at 38c*8 , and the hygrometer *798 , I examined an enamelled watch-face , which is firmly fixed upon a distant chimney of solid construction 5 and though the solar focus could not be used , I considered sufficiently distinct vision would be obtained to test the achromaticity of the telescope .
The plate itself bore the trial better than did the edges of the chimney-sides , where the focus could not be adjusted so as to prevent the alternate production of light green and purple mist , as the eye-tube was pushed in or out : and these colours scarcely disappeared , even when brought into the centre of the field ofvievv .
Some of this might probably becorrected by adjusting the fluid-lens for near objects : and Professor Barlow writes to me , that this can readily be done ; but that he took off the screw-head , by which it is effected , to prevent mere lookers on from deranging the instrument .
The watchface being upon a dark ground , I played the eye-tube till I procured a spurious disc over it , by which I was satisfied that the centering was very nearly accurate .
I then left the telescope in statu quo , and at half-past 12 again inspected it , the thermometer being 470,6 , the barometer 29*23 , the hy ?
grometer *789 , and the wind S.S.W. ; particulars which I carefully noted , for a reason which will presently appear .
The watch-plate was now considerably plainer , and its figures more sharp and distinct ; but the fucus required shortening in ; and though there was less colour than before , I wassnrprised to find it verging to the prismatic extreme , and tinged with red : a circumstance which ocular foci , or the distance , would hardly account for .
I repeated the examination in the evening , when the thermometer was 45 ?
*4 , and the hygrometer 790 .
I now found that the focus required lengthening ; but the vision was at its best , and the colours had almost vanished , though a foggy spectrum was perceptible at times .
High powers , of course , did not agree with so near an object ; but they were used without greatly distorting the image .
Thursday , Feb. 28 , 1833 . ?
The weather was very fine from 10 to 12 p.m. , though the wind blew occasionally in hard squalls from the S.W. The instrument appeared but little affected , and yet the observations were rendered unsatisfactory by the frequency of these gusts .
At 11 the thermometer was 380,4 , the barometer 29'45 , and the hygrometer *723 .
1 .
cr Orionis . ?
Saw 8 of the 10 stars which compose this cluster , but not sharp .
The situation was unfavourable , it being two hours and a half off the meridian , and the S.W. quarter of the heavens was hazy .
The power used was 250 .
2 . ?
Orionis . ?
This , of course , was very plainly seen ; but I fished it up for its definition .
The large star had a formidable nimbus , yet it did not prevent the increase of dark vacancy on raising the magni ?
fying powers .
There was much less loose light than I expected , and the small star was palpably of a pale-blue tint .
3 .
RigeL ?
This star was now too far in the S.W. to be made much of : it was tremulous , and greatly irradiated under power 250 .
The companion was not visible , and there were two troublesome spectra .
4 .
Saturn . ?
The body of the planet bore magnifying powers , and showed the thin silver line of ring which now appears , without distortion , but certainly without sharp definition .
I could only perceive two of the satellites , while with the flint-glass refractor 1 saw three .
The whole aperture was too much for the instrument , and it was therefore cut* off to six inches .
5 .
As the north was now the clearestpart of the heavens , at about 11 o'clock the telescope was turned to that direction .
The pole-star and its companion were seen very distinctly , even under the lowest power .
This , of course , I expected ; but I found that it was also viewed on both sides of the object-glass , with much less colour than the other tests I had been looking at .
Monday , March 4 , 1833 . ?
This was the best night I had yet had , and it continued very fair till nearly midnight .
I was somewhat troubled with dew , but the instrument was free from tremors , and worked as well as its temporary mounting could admit of .
The temperature stood thus : 8 o'clock .
10 o'clock .
Midnight .
Thermometer .
45 ?
*5 43 ?
*6 40 ?
'5 Barometer .
29'85 29*86 2989 Hygrometer .
*740 737 728 1 .
Rigel . ?
This star was greatly discoloured at the edges of the field , and was accompanied by a singular spectrum , which was not destroyed by being brought into the centre .
I caught the companion by glimpses , but it was immersed among strong rays .
The powers used were 90 and 250 .
2 .
Sirius . ?
This brilliant star was still more discoloured than Rigel on either edge of the field of view , and had a continuous production of rays , which in the centre surrounded the star , but at the sides preceded and foliovved it , like the wings seen where a flint-glass is not homogeneous , but fainter .
These irradiations , as well as the dispersed light , were considerably cut off by diminishing the aperture of the outer lens .
The powers used were 90 and 150 j and I tried with 400 to raise a disc , but it was altogether too much for the object .
3 .
g Orionis . ?
Saw the whole of the 10 stars of this group , but with great difficulty , and , if the term may be used , under a ditn definition .
Indeed , had I not practically known the object , I am doubtful whether J could have made out the middle stars .
It should , however , be also stated , that it was nearly three hours to the west of the meridian .
4 .
The great Nebula in Orion . ?
I placed the whole aperture upon this object ; and though the moon was nearly at full , 1 easily made out its outline , as well as that of its companion .
But the trapezium of stars , under high powers , was more distinct with an aperture of 6 inches than when the whole was applied .
I could make out only four stars in this spot ; it will be recollected , however , it was now three hours past the meridian , for the time of its transit will not allow of earlier experiment .
This 1 regret , because so fine a constellation , from its composition and place , offers in itself a thesaurus of astrono ?
mical tests .
5 .
y Leonis . ?
This beautiful double star was remarkably well seen , being nearly on the meridian .
There was , however , much false light , but it did not hinder the colours being seen the large star was slightly red , and the small one a Saxon green .
The powers used were 90 , 150 , and 250 .
6 .
to12 Leonis . ?
This was a test which , in the deficient arrangement of the apparatus , I could not manage j but notwithstanding there was much dispersed light , I should pronounce that with power 400 I saw the star elongated , and different from the other two omegas .
7 .
The Pncsepe . ?
An examination of this cluster was very favourable to the defining power of the telescope , and its general distribu ?
tion of light .
I tried it under the eyepieces 90 , 150 , and 250 .
8 . ?
Cancri . ?
With some difficulty I made out this object to be triple , under a power of 250 : that of 400 broke the rings of the spurious discs with disagreeable rays , so as to confuse the whole vision .
9 .
Saturn . ?
The planet was about two hours and a half to the east of the meridian when I placed the telescope upon it .
It was tolerably defined , but with muddy edges , though it bore magnifying pretty fairly .
1 saw two satellites steadily , and a third by glimpses ; and this was all I could do with my own telescope at the time of transit .
The ring resembled a thin silvery bar lving equatorialiy across the planetary disc , and was sharper than the body of Saturn .
Wednesday , March 20 , 1833 . ?
I had now intended to wait for the first quarter of the new moon - , but the night proved so fine and dark , that I re examined some of the former tests , and observed some new ones .
There was a light N.W. wind , and the temperature was thus : 9 o%clock .
Midnight .
Thermometer .
37 ?
7 34 ?
*4 Barometer .
30*01 30*00 Hygrometer .
*680 *670 1 .
The great Nebula in Orion . ?
This was now three hours and a quarter over the meridian , and yet it was seen in great beauty and distinctness under the whole aperture , with eyepieces 90 and 150 .
The trapezium was examined very closely with 250 and 400 , which last it bore better than it had yet done ; but only four stars were visible .
2 .
a Orionis . ?
All the stars of this group were perceptible under the power 250 , but they had the appearance of being seen in a second-rate reflector ; so that I know not how a micrometer would work upon this instrument .
3 .
Venus . ?
The crescent which this planet now forms was better seen than heretotbre , but an unseemly quantity of light still attended it ; and under the higher powers the colours were intolerable .
When , however , the focus of power 90 was nicely adjusted , and the planet brought exactly into the centre of the iield , it was a beautiful object , despite of a secondary spectrum .
The aperture was reduced , and I did not find , either now or on other occasions , that this sensibly affected the ocularfocus .
4 .
y Leonis . ?
This brilliant object was distinctly seen , and the dark vacancy between the stars increased more than d ?
d the spurious discs , while the magnifying powers were being raised , though much loose light and irradiations were thereby produced .
And it is singular that the separation was improved by my placing a central disc of cardpaper , two inches in diameter , on the outer lens .
5 .
Messiers 46th Nebula . ?
This was very fairly resolved into stars , and better with the whole than the reduced aperture .
Eyepiece 90 showed it easily , but the higher powers gave it a very turbid appearance .
The preceding cluster was brilliant .
6\ a Leonis . ?
This star had a bunch of disagreeable rays shooting from it ; and the light , when under the best adjustment I could give the focus , was curiously thrown to the northward .
I was able , however , to raise a tolerable disc , and the small star at a little distance from Regulus was unusually distinct .
7 .
24 Comaz Beren . ?
I pointed to this remarkably pretty object to test the colours , and very readily perceived the large star to be of a bright orange colour , and the small a sea-green .
This was one of the best sights I had yet had , and on the whole was satisfactory .
8 .
l Leonis . ?
This , though a very close and unequal double star , was well shown , yet at times the stray light would obscure the com ?
panion .
The large star was fairly figured , and the small seemed about the 10th magnitude , , and of a greenish hue .
It formed a fine test .
9 .
Saturn . ?
I had a good trial of this planet ; and though the powers 90 , 150 and 250 were borne , the disc was certainly not well defined .
The ring is still a mere bar lying across the equator : it was very well shown , as were also three satellites .
When I applied the power 400 , the whole field was strewed with harsh light .
10 .
y Virginis . ?
This interesting star , though now so exceedingly close , was made double with 250 , and very well shown ; but with 400 there was great tremor and irradiation , so that the discs were often confused into one .
Saturday , March 30 , 1833 . ?
After a continuance of bad weather for several days , it cleared off a little ?
but in the mean time I had missed the favourable phase of the moon , for which 1 had been waiting .
I therefore closed my examinations with the following one : The Sun . ?
From the extreme volatility of the sulphuret of carbon , I was fearful of its expansion , and therefore had not yet turned the telescope upon the sun , lest the condensation of the solar rays , at the place where they traverse the fluid , should prove too much for the lenses .
But on mentioning this apprehension to Professor Barlow , that gentleman assured me that an exposure of from five to ten mi ?
nutes could do no mischief .
I therefore this day reduced the aperture to three inches , and directed the instrument to the solar disc , when , sweeping over the luminary for about three minutes , I found the surface was quite clear of spots .
On turning from it , I drew out the eye-tube , and looking at the fluid , perceived that the bubble was considerably diminished , but not so much as I had expected .
This was the only time that I exposed the telescope to great heat .
These are the only experiments I have been able to make ; and the season of the year , together with the inefficiency of the apparatus , have certainly prevented me from assigning exact limits to the per ?
formance of this telescope .
Still , as 1 had immediate reference to one of the best refractors extant , I may add the following conclusions , premising , that I have not constantly noted down the performance of the latter upon each test , because my end was to pronounce upon the fluid object-glass .
I should also observe , that the magnifying powers of both the instruments were equally matched , and their apertures were generally proportioned to nearly six inches : the eyepieces were thus : Fluid refractor .
90 150 250 400 Flint-glass ditto .
93 157 240 416 From the result of my observations , it has struck me that this ingenious principle has strong claims to consideration for its valuable optical powers , but that , in the present stage , it is more adapted for stars than for planets ; and should the application of it be tried on a larger scale , it might be made with sufficient illumination to examine the high-class nebulae ; a branch of practical astronomy which is now nearly shut against refractors .
The defining power does not strike me as being so good as the light , nor does the achromatism seem to be perfect .
Yet 1 should mention the want of focal and mechanical are ?
rangement ; that the only adjustment I had for distinct vision was by the hand , with the sliding eyepiece tube ; and that slight derangements might be occasioned by the mounting and dismounting of the great tube , however carefully it was attended to .
I cannot but suspect that the performance of this telescope is affected by temperature , and that severe tests in the summer months might afford different conclusions to those which I have arrived at j but as I considered my opinion was desired on the instrument in its present state , I took no means for applying artificial heat .
And , perhaps , the secondary spectrum which haunts the field might be mitigated , and the prismatic colours aestroyed , by an alteration of the distance between the fluid and outer lenses ; but the same consideration prevented my applying for a screw , by which it might have been effected .
But there is one condition of the instrument which , if correct , would be of greater importance than the rest , as connected with this Report .
It strikes me forcibly , from the several effects I observed , that the focus has been cut too short ?
a defect which would seriously affect the spherical aberration of the outer or object lens and its dispersion : and this would account for the fluid refractor not performing better than the flint-glass one , without impugning the corrective powers of the sulphuret of carbon , or its skilful application by the scientific Professor .
April 4 , 1833 .
W. H. Smyth .

