440 Prof. A. Dendy .
results :\#151 ; A globe of 32"35 c.c. capacity , filled at a pressure if 765-0 mm. , and at the temperature 17-43 ' , weighed 0-05442 The density is therefore 19"87 .
A second determination , made afir sparking , gave no different result .
This density does not sensiy differ from that of argon .
Thinking that the gas might possibly prove to be diatomic e proceeded to determine the ratio of specific heats :\#151 ; Wave-length of sound in air ... ... .
34-18 \#187 ; n gas ... ... ... ... ... 31-68 Ratio for air ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1-408 " gas ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1-660 The gas is therefore monatomic .
Inasmuch as this gas differs very markedly from argon in b spectrum , and in its behaviour at low temperatures , it must V regarded as a distinct elementary substance , and we therefore pr pose for it the name " metargon .
" It would appear to hold tl position towards argon that nickel does to cobalt , having approi mately the same atomic weight , yet different properties .
It must have been observed that krypton does not appear durii the investigation of the higher-boiling fraction of argon .
This probably due to two causes .
In the first place , in order to prepare i the manipulation of a volume of air of no less than 60,000 times tl volume of the impure sample which we obtained was required ; and i the second place , while metargon is a solid at the temperature of boilii air , krypton is probably a liquid , and more volatile at that temperatur It may also be noted that the air from which krypton has bee obtained had been filtered , and so freed from metargon .
A fu account of the spectra of those gases will be published in doe courf by Mr. E. C. 0 .
Baly .
" Summary of the principal Results obtained in a Study of th Development of the Tuatara ( )."JB ; Arthur Dendy , D.Sc .
, Professor of Biology in the Canter bury College , University of New Zealand .
Communicate !
by Professor G. B. Howes , P.R.S. Received June 15 , -Read June 16 , 1898 .
Thanks to the most generous and freely rendered services of Mr P. Henaghan , Principal Keeper of the Lighthouse on Stephen 's Island in Cook Straits , I have lately obtained a very perfect series a Tuatara embryos , ranging in age from just before the appearance ol the blastopore to about the time of hatching .
I have classified these embryos in sixteen stages , and propose shortly to publish a general Development of the Tuatara ( Sphenodon punctatum ) .
441 count of the development with numerous illustrations .
As , how-er , it will still take some time to complete the drawings and manu-ript , it appears desirable to publish at once a short summary of the ost interesting results obtained .
The general development , as ready stated by Thomas , conforms closely to that of other reptiles , it the following features seem to deserve special mention :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The development occupies about thirteen months , the eggs jing laid ( on Stephen 's Island ) in November and hatched about idsummer of the year following .
The last stages in the develop-ient , after about the first four months , occupy a much longer period ian the earlier ones , so that , having reached an already very Ivanced stage , the development seems to be almost if not quite ispended during the winter months .
( 2 ) The blastoderm spreads around the yolk at a very early date , ad the embryo first appears as a cap-shaped mass of cells , the front ad of which is elevated above the surrounding blastoderm as the ead-fold , while the hinder and narrower end is formed by an undif-irentiated mass of cells representing the primitive streak .
The \#166 ; ont part of the embryo is formed of epiblast and lower layer cells , nd from the lowest of the latter the hypoblast is subsequently ifferentiatgd .
( 3 ) In the primitive streak a distinct blastopore makes its appear-nce , which presently opens into the enteron below , forming a very istinct neurenteric canal which persists for some time .
I ( 4 ) The notochord appears to be formed by a forward growth from he primitive streak in front of the blastopore , rather than by dif-erentiation of hypoblast cells in the mid-dorsal line of the enteron .
\#166 ; 5 ) At a very early date the front end of the embryo sinks into the oik , pushing the subjacent blastoderm before it in such a manner hat the latter forms a kind of amnion closely investing the head and he thoracic portion of the body .
This " amnion , " though very hin , becomes differentiated into inner somatopleuric and outer planchnopleuric portions , but , at any rate for a long time , without iny mesoblast .
| ( 6 ) At a comparatively late stage in development the anterior *nd of the embryo , together with the somatopleuric layer of the i'amnion , " is withdrawn from the splanchnopleuric layer ( which Delongs really to the yolk sac ) , and thus the embryo comes to lie mtirely above the yolk sac .
* ( 7 ) In the hinder part of the embryo the amnion is formed by aprising folds of somatopleure meeting and fusing above the embryo , probably accompanied by a down sinking of the embryo .
This i process is continued backwards for some distance behind the embryo , forming a narrow canal which communicates in , part with the cavity of the true amnion , and opens behind on the surface of the blasto442 Development of the Tuatara ( Sphenodon punctatum ) .
derm close to the sinus terrainalis .
The " posterior amniotic canal thus formed is lined by epiblast , hut it lies embedded in the mes blast of the serous envelope which gradually splits off from tl underlying yolk-sac around the embryo .
The posterior amniot canal arises at a very early date , and does not persist very long .
( 8 ) The connection between the true amnion and serous enveloj ( false amnion ) in the mid-dorsal line persists in part to a very lai stage , but there is free communication between the two halves of th pleuroperitoneal space above the embryo .
( 9 ) In connection with the vitelline circulation , very numerou absorbing vessels are developed which dip down far into the yoll and large transparent globules of yolk , each surrounded by a layer c yolk " crystalloids , " become arranged around these vessels like onioD on strings .
The yolk thus gradually assumes a very characteristi radially columnar structure .
( 10 ) The parietal eye commences its development shortly aftei the appearance of the optic lobes .
It arises by evagination of tht roof of the brain in front of the prominence of the mid-brain , anc is at first situated slightly to one side of the median line ( the left side , so far as yet ascertained ) .
It very soon becomes completely dis connected from its stalk as a closed , hollow vesicle , the wall of which is composed at first of a single layer of columnar cells .
The outei ( upper ) part of the wall of the vesicle is thickened to form the lens and the inner ( lower ) part presently divides into two very distinct layers , and acquires a secondary , fibrous connection with the brain immediately in front of the stalk .
It is a curious fact that while the parietal eye , after separating from its stalk , at first lies on the left side\#151 ; the stalk itself is median .
( 11 ) The posterior commissure arises just in front of the place where the stalk of the parietal eye connects with the brain and the stalk passes forwards above it .
This fact seems to exclude the possibility of the stalk of the parietal eye representing the pineal gland , for , according to Balfour , the posterior commissure arises behind the pineal gland which is directed backwards .
( 12 ) The pineal gland in Sphenodon appears to be represented by a mass of convoluted tubules lying in front of the stalk of the parietal eye .
( 13 ) At a late stage of development ( in embryos estimated at from four to eight months ) the body and part of the head are marked with very distinct longitudinal stripes of white on a grey ground .
This striping almost entirely disappears before hatching , being last retained on the under surface of the head .
This observation is in close agreement with those of Eimer on the markings of mammals , \amp ; c. ( 14 ) In embryos of the same age a patch of cornified epidermis The Stomodceum , Mesenterial Filaments , Sc. , of Xenia .
448 n the snout forms a very distinct " shell-breaker , " which seems to \#171 ; represented in the adult by the large median scale in front of he premaxillse .
( 15 ) At about the time of hatching there are on each of the jremaxill\#174 ; three distinct , sharp , conical teeth , of which the outer-aost is the largest .
These probably unite later on to form the arge upper cutting teeth of the adult .
There are also three similar eeth on each side in the front of the mandible , which probably mite to form the lower cutting teeth of the adult .
( I have not bund any vomerine teeth .
) Of the above results those regarding the amnion and the parietal ye seem to be the most interesting .
I had discovered and drawn he posterior amniotic reanal long before I was aware of Mitsukuri 's imilar and previous discovery in Chelonians , and it appears to me hat the observation is of especial interest in view of the supposed elationship between Sphenodon and the latter group , the probability f which is greatly strengthened by the striking similarity in the levelopment of the foetal membranes .
] The development of the parietal eye in Sphenodon certainly sup-torts Beraneck 's important conclusion that this organ ( in Lacerta and Lnguis ) arises independently of the epiphysis , a conclusion which jus also unknown to me until after I had come to suspect the same hing from observing the peculiar relation of the stalk of the parietal ye to the posterior commissure .
I may add that owing to the scarcity of biological literature in Christchurch the works of Mitsukuri and Beraneck above referred o are only known to me from the short abstracts in the ' Journal of he Royal Microscopical Society .
' ' The Stomodseum , Mesenterial Filaihents , and Endoderm of Xenia " By J. H. Ashworth , B.Sc. , Demonstrator in Zoology , Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor Hickson , F.R.S. Received February 23 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
The specimen referred to in this note is a colony of the Alcyona-seous coral Xenia sp. ?
from Celebes .
The Xeniidas are distinguished :rom all other Alcyonaria by their soft fleshy consistency and lon-retractije polyps .
The former character is due to the fact that heir spicules are very minute rounded or oval discs ( average measurements 0'015 mm. long , 0*01 mm. broad , 0*004 mm. thick ) , which have i horny basis impregnated with only a small quantity of calcium carbonate .
The polyps have the usual Alcyonaceous structure , and I VOL. LXIII .
2 L

