]\gt ; Xiquid Hydrogen for the Prodvxtion of High Vacua .
this result 1 Has the platinum resistance thermometer arrived at a limiting resistance about , so that at a lower temperature it refuses to change in resistance , the curvs having become practically asymptotic to the axis of temperature On the other hand , has the influx of hcat by the leads , and the correction on account of this change of resistance , become so great as to vitiate the results at these excessivcly low temperatures 1 Again , it may be suggested that the thermometer was not properly cooled , or that the liquid hydrogen does not lower in temperature to any marked extent under exhaustion like other liquids .
All these conjectures can only be set at rest by a repetition of the experiments with a new thermometer of much higher initial resistance , and lmdcr conditions of better heat isolation .
No bhnder having ) detected in the observationb , for the present we must assumP th the tinum resistance thermometer No. 7 acts in the lescribed .
It wonld be premature to discuss the inferences to bc from these results until they are confirmed on another riety of wire made into a resistance thermometer .
But as this will involve the of considerable quantities of liquid hydrogen , it } take some time to complete the investigation .
The same kind of anomaly in the case of the use of a thermothese low temperatures , but this is a separate matter , and must be with iu a further communication .
I ndel ) to .
J. E. Petavel for assistance in the electrical , ctnd also to Mr. Robert Lennox and Mr. Heath for their help in the conduct of the experiments .
" " of Liqnid to the Production of with their Spectroscopic Exalnination By , LL. D. , eceived and of the extraordinary power of the new cooling gent .
hydrugen , the extreme rttpidity with which high vacua I its use is , perhaps , one of the most striking .
The of ogen , oxygen , and respcc , , in other words oxygen boils a tnre highcr liquid hydrogen , liquid chlorinc hadf times that of liquid oxygen .
From as a cooling to be ti to the ttcr is to of liquid chlo1 at the temperature of oxygcn is a clting point , in this condition has an ccssivcly f pressurc .
Vhcn liquid hydroge1l freczcs of immersing the eud in the liquid , it is to ) 232 Prof. J. Dewar .
Appl , cation of Liqn , id Hydrogen to the inferred that no measurable pressure of air ought to be left in the vessel .
If we apply Van der Waal 's law of corresponding temperatures to the case of hydrogen , the above inference is made unimpeachable .
An approach to some knowledge of what the tension of air must be about the boiling point of hydrogen can be attained by extrapolating the vapour pressure curves of oxygen and nitrogen .
Taking the following range of boiling point temperatures for nitrogen and oxygen , from the critical point to the boiling point under dimimshed pressure , two Willard Gibbs formulae were calculated , with the following results :\mdash ; Nitrogen Nitrogen .
( 1 ) .
Oxygen Oxygen .
( 2 ) .
Another Gibbs formula was calculated , taking Estreicher 's values for the vapour pressure of liquid oxygen below its boiling point , .
:\mdash ; 524.72 Oxygen .
( 3 ) .
We deduoe from these formulae the following vapour pressures at the temperature of boilin hydrogen:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Nitrogen Pressure in mm. , ( 2 ) Oxygsn do .
( 3 ) do .
The results of oalculation , taking the formulae for the widest rangs of ures , , ( 1 ) an 2 , may 1 and ( 2 ) , may probably be the surest , but in any case those values must be taken as a mnximnm , seeing they to the liquid state , while both oxygen and nitrogen , at the tempcrature of absolute , are hard solids , and must therefore dropped to lower tensions than that of the extrapolated liquid vaponr pressnre curves .
It is curious to note that at this low temperature the theoretical ratio of the tensions of nitrogen and oxygen is as 20 to 1 .
Direct measurements of the vapour pressure of nitrogen at the melting Production of Vacna , and their Spectroscopic iExamination .
233 point , or ) , gavs the valne of 26 mm. , and a ratio of the tensions of nitrogen to oxygen of 6 to 1 , whereas from the curves the ought to be to 1 .
Olszewski gives the tension of nitrogen at mm. , and as at this temperature the oxygen tension is mm. , the ratio of the saturated pressures of the two gases at the point of nitrogen be as 16 to 1 , which is far too high .
Probably the oxygen value will be nearest the truth , seeing it has the lowest melting point .
The tension is oout a ten millionth of an osphcro .
In the case of nitrogen , the theoretical presbure one five-hundred-thousandth of an atmosphere .
It to the vacuum left after liquefying the air out of mcans of liqnid hydrogen cannot exceed the millionth part of the heric pressure , exclusivs of the pressure resulting from other than nitrogen and oxygen .
This is the pressure of the of mercury at the ordinary temtnre in the orricellian vacuum , so that as good an exhaustion ( to resnlt as can be got by boiling out a space with mercury .
There is nothcr w in which the question may be put .
Assuming molccul tcnt heats approximately proportioned to the absolute ) ) oints , then we can , from a comparison with the oxygen dedncc that of hydrogen , and thereby get the constants in a -torm for the vapour pressures .
For pressures below , the approximate formulae were deduced:\mdash ; Oxygen mm. ( 4 ) .
Hydrogcn mm. . .
( 5 ) .
From these expressions it follows that at its boiling point , or 7/ 852000 times the of oxygen , or the the eight millionth of an atmosphere .
bjlnilar form , calculated from the critical and } ) oiling p data , tbc order of quantities .
Formula ( 4 ) for llllst ) ccurate , it gives a theoretical nnits gram of liquid evaporating the lirect detorminations result in 55 nnits .
To test .
following of experimenting was tdopted :\mdash ; , like , used for the spectroscopic of with ctlld without electrodes figs. , from 15 to 25 , had pieces of quill foot on .
The tubes were to , so tb they bc scaled off with .
The etimeh t in a small ) ( fig. 3 ) , in order to give incrc ( ( , when neccssary , to allow many timos the 234 Prof. J. Dewar .
Application of Eydrogen to the FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
FIG. 3 .
of air in , to enter and be condensed with the object of accumulating any incondensable residuum .
The tubes were filled with air , oxygcn , and nitrogen at the atmospheric pressure .
The liquid hydrogen collected in the vacuum vessel , immersed in another similar vessel full of liquid air , being ready , the end was dipped in the liquid for a little over a minute , and the tube AB sealed off at , so that on removal from the hydrogen bath the solid air might melt and off without generating any pressure .
On attempting to pass the spark through vacuum tubes prepared in this manner , their excellent exhaubtion was revealed by great to the passage of the discharge , and the high phosphorescence of ths glass .
Two tubes , kindly prepared by Sir William Crookes with platinum electrodes that he had previously sparked to remove gases and impurities on the glass before filling with dry air , gave , when treated in the manner described , such high vacua that the tubes had to be heated in order to get any spark to pass .
Thus it is proved that the tension of solid nitrogen and oxygen at the temperature of boiling hydrogen is below the millionth of an atmosphere , seeing there is less difficulty in getting a discharge to pass in tubes exhaust to to thi extent .
In order to get some definite idea of the limit of the exhaustion produced , two tubes , such as have been described as bultable for of Vncna , th Spectroscopic Exanination .
the liqnid hydrogen experiments , might be joined together and filled with oxygcn or nitrogen atmospheric pressure , and simultaneously exhausted with the mercurial pump to a small fraction of an atmosphcre , and then sealed off from the pump and each other .
One of these ideutical tubes could then be subjected to the hydrogen , following the directions already given , and the two vacuum tiul ) now .
If there was a marked difference in resistance to the of the discharge in the frozen tube , then something ve condensed , and by a few tentative a limit ched when the initial exhaastion was unaffected ) the hydrogen experiments not yet been made .
The presence of uf mcrcury would require to be refully eliminated , othervise the method would not be satisfactory .
Tubes that are prepared utions to exclude anic matter and water from the , espceially with electrodeless tubes after the dischargc taken place for some time .
The with which the vacua are attained is such as theor would gcst ; assuming a hole of a square millimetre in section throngh which the air rnshes into the condenser , and that a velocity of currcnt and 700 fact a second is attained , then a vessel of could reduced in presbure in 1 second to 1/ 10 of the ossnre , if the same rate is continued at the end of .
Sir Gcorge Stokes has been good cnough to consider the ) writcs as " " Let ) the vohlme of the yessel , A the area of an aperture the is conccived rushing out with the velocity of in the vesscl at the time the initial density , ospheric density .
' ' Then , ) rrling to our hypothesis , is the volunle , and , mass of air , which rushes out in the time the loss of mass of air in the Ycssel time equation of hich the intcgral is to , or 20,000 c.mm .
, A to the of tmeter , sny 2 sq .
mm. , to , or ( in scconds ) to ; then I ) VOL. LXIV .
236 Prof. J. Dewar .
eation of Liquid Hydrogen to the " " This would give a density of almost inconceivable smallness .
Doubtless the supposition made above as to the rate of discharge is very wide of the mark , being much too great .
If the velocity of rnshing is about half the velocity of sound , the ratio of densities would becoms .
If so it is satisfactory to find that the mathematical following out of the hypothesis leads to a density of the residual air in the vessel which is enormously below what suffices to account for the observed resuIt A practical mode of rapidly a high vacutlm in any vessel is to displace the air with carbonic or sulphurous acid , cither at the atmospheric or under diminished pressure , and then to freeze out the remaining gas by the use of Iiquid air , just as in the experiments with liquid hydrogen .
The first vacuum tube was an electrodeless one , the air had not been dried , nor the glass specially cleaned .
On spectroscopic examina tion it showed hydrogen lines bright along with the second or compound line spectrum of the same gas , and a series of bright bands defined on the less refrangible side , diffuse on the more refrangible , which occur in the yellow , green , blue , and indigo .
These bands were found to be identical with the carbonic oxide spectrum .
With a Leyden jar in the secondary oircuit the line spectrum of hydrogen disappeared , leaving the second spectrum fainter ; but the carl ) onic oxide bands remained bright , and there was no appearance of the hydrocarbon spectrum .
The second tube had aluminium electrodes , and , like the last , had no special treatment in filling in the air .
This tube showed also the line spectrum and the second speotrum of hydrogen ; the latter being bright along with the carbonic oxide spectrnm ; ) on sparking the latter ppeared .
No appearance of the hydrocarbon spectrum could be detected , but thero , a picion of bands in the indigo like the Ilegative pole spectrum of nitrogen .
The addition of a Leyden jar brought out nothing new , only intensifying the line spectrum of hydrogen , while leaving the second spectrum bright .
In neither of the above tubes could any lines of nitrogen or oxygen be recognised .
The third tube was filled with air drawn over cotton wool , red-hot copper oxide , and phosphoric pentoxide , no rubber joints being em- ployed .
The spectrum showed the carbonic oxide bands and the hydrogen line spectrum as before .
Only the second hydrogen was feeble .
There a yellow line .
5849 , identical with one occurring in the natural gas from the King 's at Bath .
In a paper on " " The Liquefaction of Air and the Detection of Impurities , \ldquo ; the separation of helium from this gas is described by liquefaction and fractionation , and it was observed that the sparking the helium lines were well marked along with\ldquo ; others , tloe of ?
lnter It was rther observed , " " rrith a modified of will be possibfe to collect ( ] from the usnot of $ Proc ember , 1897 .
Prodnction of cpnd t ( jctrosco iExmition .
237 3 cubic of ( or bnt hnnof cnbi( ' feef of The and other associated material was hoWn to be more volatile than nitrogen .
Pursuing this course of investigation in the summer of this year , the volatile portion of air was examined , when the presence of material giving the same lines as Bath helium was recognise hile this investigation was in progress , Professor Ramsay and Dr. Travers observed the same spectrum in the more volatile portion hich they have associated with a new element called neon .
The use of liquid hydrogen , as described , oves that the most charactcristic line of neon in the yellow , ) , can be detected in .
of , and the presence of helinm the atmosphere is confirmed .
A fourth tnbe , filled likc the preceding one , a phoric pentoxide tube left on .
This showed again the carbonic oxide 1 ) hydrogen lines could be detected ; while the oxide of copper to have removed all free hydrogen and transformed the matter into oarbonic acid and water .
Yet it ppears that the spectrtlm of the carbon is difficult to remove from electrodcless tubes , probably owing to carbomc acid coming from the There were some broad diffuse bands that may arise from the drying gent .
The absence of hydrogen in this tube suggests that its presence in the third tube was due to vapour of water coming slowly from the glass .
I am greatly indebted to Professor Living for making a careful examination of the spectra of these tubes .
Sir William Crookes was good enough to prepare two tubes with platinum electrodes , which he sparked in vacna till all hydrogen appeared , and then filled with dry air , but without the use of copper oxide or any agent for the orption of carbonic acid or the destrnction of organic matter .
After the cooling with liquid hydrogen , hc found on spectroscopic examination , in one no hydrogen , but lines , one about .
and the other .
The sccond tube showed the same yellow about , the helinm line with 5939 and , the hydrogen lines and , ond some red .
The observations of Crookes confirm the presence of neoIJ , , and hydrogen .
The absence in his tubes of the carbonic oxide is important , seeing all the electrodeless tubes gave this spectrum .
In these tubes the vacunm was very high , and it difficult to ) we the gaseous spcctrum .
Still , the fact of finding hydro* In a along ith Professol .
Living , " " On the Spectra of the Electric Disohorge in Liquid Oxygcn , Air , and Nitrogen ' Phil. Mag 1894 , , we noted that during the distillation concentration in vacuo of liquffi oxygen and diminished pressure that lines lppeared in the spectrum at wave-le } lgths and , and that of lines 11 as very near the position of the ) line .
These lines ) now xted by the same to a new element , crypton .
and Lisi of Papers read .
gen in one and not in the other , leaves the presence of free hydrogen in the atmosphere as a question for further inquiry .
The tube that did not contain hydrogen was heated very hot in order to get a discharge , and then the spectrum showed some hands like the negave glow of nitrogen .
ionally , a jar discharge was got to pass , and when this took place the nitrogen lines could be seen .
An electrodeless filled oarefully with oxygen made from fused chlorate of potash , which was contained in an extension of the vacuum tube gave nothing but the carbonic oxide bands .
In future experiments it will be easy to concentrate all the most volatile material in air or other gases , thereby to make a more thorough examination of the spectrum .
In the meantime my object is to show one of the scientificuses of liquid hydrogen .
I have to thank .
Robert Lennox for efficient aid in the conduct of the difficult experiments .
Mr. Heath has also helped in the work . .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents reeeived was laid on the table , and thanks for them .
The following Papers were read : I. servations upon the Normal and Pathological Histology and of the Oyster By Professor W. A. F.R.S. , and Professor R. BOYCL .
II .
" " On the Formation of bIultiple Inlages in the Normal Eye By SHELFORD , F.R.S. .
' On the Vibrations in the Field round a Theoretical Hertzian Oscillator By Professor PEARSON , F.R.S. , and bliss ALICE LEE .
IV .
" " On the Refractive Indices and Densities of Normal and Seminormal Aqueous Solutions of Hydrogen Chloride and the Chlorides of the Alkalis By Sir JOHN CONROY , Bart. , F.B.S.

