224 Mr. H. E. Durham .
On Special Action of [ Jan. 23 , with many metals , and carbonic oxide especially with iron .
Whether this condition is rightly distinguished from ordinary chemical combination is a question which admits of debate .
The stability of all dissociable compounds is influenced by pressure and by temperature in the same kind of way as " occlusion , " which , like ordinary chemical combination again , is a phenomenon in which the bodies concerned exercise a power of selection .
The presence of hydrogen as well as carbon dioxide in granite , if already observed , is not known to geologists generally .
From observation on variations in the critical point of carbon dioxide in minerals ( ' J. Chem. Soc./ 1876 , ii , 248 ) , Hartley seems to infer that the incondensable gas present with carbon dioxide , is usually nitrogen .
A passage in Geikie 's 'Text Book of Geology/ third edition , p. 110 , refers to the presence of hydrogen in cavities ; but at present 1 have no information as to the evidence upon which this statement is based .
The presence of hydrogen in such a rock as granite must be attributed to the existence of this gas in large proportion in the atmosphere in which the rock was crystallised .
Whether this was the primeval atmosphere of the earth before the hydrogen had escaped or had been oxidised into water , or whether it resulted from the local action of water upon unoxidised metals or other materials in the interior of the earth , is a question which may be of some interest to the geologist .
If the former hypothesis were adopted , it would perhaps be difficult to explain the absence of helium from the gas included in the rock ; and , on the whole , I incline to the latter view , as affording the more probable explanation .
I have ascertained that hydrogen is present in even larger proportion in the granite from the neighbourhood of Dublin , and I propose to examine some other examples of the ancient crystalline rocks in order to determine the nature of the gases enclosed in them .
II , c\lt ; On a Special Action of the Serum of Highly Immunised Animals , and its Use for Diagnostic and other Purposes .
" By Herbert E. Durham , Gull Research Student in Pathology .
Communicated by Dr. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received January 3 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The following conclusions are the outcome of an enquiry into the nature and value of " Pfeiffer 's reaction , " which was made at the suggestion and under the guidance of Professor Max Gruber , of Vienna , to whom my best thanks are due .
The present communica1896 .
] the Serum of Highly Immunised Animals , tion deals with the effects produced upon microbes vitro by the serums of highly immunised animals , even when extremely dilute .
This portion of the enquiry has been carried out mainly in the Bacteriological Laboratory of Guy 's Hospital .
1 .
A remarkable series of effects are produced on an emulsion of actively motile microbes by the addition of minute quantities of potent kinds of serum .
2 .
These effects have been observed with the cholera vibrio , a variety of other vibrios , the typhoid bacillus , the Bacillus coli munis , and the Bacillus pyocyaneus .
3 .
It is highly improbable that the phenomena are limited to the groups and species here named .
Further observation is requisite upon other motile , as well as the non-motile bacteria .
4 .
The most prominent of the effects thus produced consists of an immediate aggregation of the bacteria into " clumps " ; this is combined with loss of motility .
Marked inhibition of growth also occurs .
5 .
The formation of clumps can be detected readily by the naked eye .
Eventually they gravitate to the bottom of the tube containing them .
6 .
A " complete action " is obtained when all the clumps settle down , leaving a perfectly clear fluid .
The time required for settling varies somewhat with different organisms , as also according to the amount and potency of the serum used .
7 .
The least quantity of serum which will give a " complete reaction " in about one hour forms a convenient standard .
A highly potent serum will react thus in 1 per cent , solution , which is a convenient unit .
8 .
The more intense the action of the serum the more rapid and the more complete are the changes which ensue .
9 .
By means of the intensity of action in varying dilutions , two or more samples of serum , or of freshly drawn blood , may be gauged according to their potency .
10 .
Normal sei'urn , and the serum obtained by immunisations with totally unrelated groups of organisms , do not interact upon the unrelated microbes , so far as present observation shows .
11 .
The action of cholera serum upon more or less closely related vibrios may be " complete " or A series of gradations in intensity of reaction has been observed with cholera serum and vibrios of other species , and vice versa .
12 .
The action of such serum cannot therefore be regarded as " specific " ; it is better named special or specialised .
13 .
The limit of the absolute value of such serum tests for the diagnosis of cholera vibrios has yet to be determined .
14 .
All the typhoid bacilli from nineteen different sources hitherto 226 Presents .
[ Jan. 23 , observed react with typhoid serum ; none of them react with the B. coli serum .
15 .
Of the B. coli varieties hitherto proved , some do not react with one sample of B. coli serum .
16 .
The agreement in action of the typhoid bacilli points to the use of the method for diagnostic purposes .
Given a young culture and typhoid serum , diagnosis can be made in a few minutes .
17 .
As shown by serum experiment , the variation within the B. coli group is greater than that of B. races .
18 .
By the method described , more delicate changes can be observed than with such methods as plate cultivations , and the fallacies thereof are avoided .
19 .
A vibrio and a vibrio serum which will give a " complete reaction " in vitro will also give a positive result in " Pfeiffer 's reaction " ( e.g. , V. Iwanoffi and V. Berolinensis with cholera serum ) .
20 .
It is not worth while performing Pfeiffer 's test unless a " complete reaction ''"has been obtained in vitro .
21 .
In the method described , the whole series of changes , if any , are before the eye the whole time .
In Pfeiffer 's method the changes can only be seen by removing samples from their hiding place in the guinea-pig 's peritoneal cavity .
The extent of possible fallacy from using the peritoneal fluid of a living animal is not yet defined .
Professor Pfeiffer himself admits that the animals vary to some extent according to their condition of health .
Dr. Klein described a new pathogenic anaerobic bacillus in man\#151 ; Bacillus enteritidis sporogenes , an account of which is published in ' Centralblatt fur Bakteriologie .
' Presents , January 23 , 1896 .
Transactions .
Beziers:\#151 ; Societe d'Etude des Sciences Xaturelles .
Bulletin .
Vol. XVII .
8vo , Beziers 1895 .
The Society .
Bordeaux:\#151 ; Societe des Sciences Physiques et Xaturelles .
Me-moires .
Tome V. 8vo .
Bordeaux 1895 .
The Society .
Bristol:\#151 ; University College .
Meeting of the Governors and Report of Council .
1894\#151 ; 95 .
8vo .
The College .
Dublin:\#151 ; -Royal Irish Academy .
Transactions .
Vol. XXX .
Parts 15\#151 ; 17 .
4to .
Dublin 1895 ; Proceedings .
Vol. III .
No. 4 .
8vo .
Dublin 1895 ; List of the Members .
1895 .
8vo .
Dublin .
The Academy .
Freiburg i. B.:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Berichte .
Bd .
IX .
Heft 1\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Freiburg i. B. 1894-95 .
The Society .

