On the Anatomy of the Fovea Centralisof the Hfumnan Retina .
By J. W. HULKE , F.R. C.S. , Assistant Surgeon to the Middlesex and Royal London Ophthalmzic Hospitals .
Coemnunicated by WILLIAM BOWMAN , F. B. S. Received May 26 , -IRead June 14 , 1866 .
THE following account of the fovea centralis is chiefly drawn from a study of this part in a perfectly healthy eye excised during life ( in order to allow the extirpation of a tumour ) and instantly put into a solution of chromic acid .
By instantly hardening the retina , the formation of the Plica and the resulting disturbance of the fovea were prevented , and it was possible to make extremely regular sections .
The fovea centralis is a minute circular pit in that central spot of the retina called , from its yellow colour , the macula lutea-yellow spot .
This colour proceeds from 'a diffuse stain of the retinal tissues , and not from the presence of granulated pigment as in the choroid .
It is most intense at the centre of the spot , and fades towards the circumference of the spot , where it , ceases gradually without a distinct margin , so that neither in the fresh retina nor in that which has been artificially hardened in chromic acid ( which destroys the colour ) can we use this as a measure of the extent of the spot .
The size of the spot is , however , more certainly fixed by the extent of certain anatomical peculiarities which do not occur in any other part of the retina .
The ophthalmoscopic appearance of the spot in the living eye is that of an ellipse , the major axis of which is horizontal .
It is rather larger than the disk of the optic nerve , and comes into view when the eye under observation looks directly at the sight-hole in the mirror .
It is distinguished from the parts around by its deeper colour and by a certain dullness , difficult to describe but readily appreciated when seen , which proceeds from the faintness or absence of the reflection occurring at the inner surface of the retina elsewhere .
In children , particularly in those of dark complexion , the retinal reflection ceases at the periphery of the macula with such a definite edge that the macula appears as a dull , dark-coloured spot encircled by a bright ring .
In the middle of the macula lutea a bright dot marks the position of the fovea centralis .
According to HELMHOLTZ the visual line ( the straight line which joins the most sensitive part of the retina and the object directly seen ) does not coincide with the axis of the eyeball , as is commonly thought , but includes an angle with it ; and the most sensitive point in the retina ( the fovea ) lies slightly outwards , and usually a little below the posterior end of the axis of the globes .
In an artificially hardened normal eye , in which the relations of the parts were undis* CORINELIUS , ' Die Theory des Sehens und rdumliches Vorstellens .
' Halle , 1861 , Abth .
1 .
S. 250 .
turbed , I found the distance of the fovea from the centre of the optic nerve exactly equalled 1k " ' .
In vertical sections through the artificially hardened macula the fovea .
centralis is seen to be produced by the radial divergence of the cone-fibres from a central point , and by the thinning and curving of the inner retinal layers towards the outer surface of the retina as they approach this point .
The thickness of the retina decreases in a rapid uniform curve from the edge to the centre of the fovea , and very slowly from the foveal edge towards the ora retinu .
Since the maximum thickness coincides with the edge , and the minimum with the centre of the fovea , the former is the most elevated , the latter the most depressed part in the macula .
At the centre of the fovea , where the retina is thinnest , passing from the outer to the inner surface , we meet with the following structures : the bacillary layer , the outer limiting membrane , a thin band of areolated connective tissue which transmits a few cone-fibres , the inner granule and ganglionic layers represented by scattered cells and not separated by a distinct granular layer , optic nerve-fibres , and lastly , the inner limiting membrane .
Minute Structure .
1 .
The bacillary layer ( Plate VII .
fig. 1 , 1 ) in the fovea contains cones only ; and rods first appear midway between the centre of the fovea and the outer border of the macula* .
The foveal cones ( figs. 2 &amp; 3 ) are longer and more slender than those distant from the macula , and there is a similar difference in the length and stoutness of the rods .
In both rods and cones an outer and an inner segment are observable ; the outer in profile is a slender rectangle ; the inner is flask-shaped , and is in the cones much stouter than the outer segment , while in the rods it only slightly exceeds the outer segment .
The inner segment is always associated in the usual manner , by inclusion or by a communicating fibre , with an " outer granule " ( figs. 2 &amp; 3 ) .
Connexion by a fibre obtains ( 1 ) with the central cones whose associate outer granules are peripherally displaced , ( 2 ) with all cones associated with a distant outer granule , and ( 3 ) always with the rods whose smaller diameter does not allow them to include their granule .
There is a definite outer limiting membrane which has the same relations to the bacillary and outer granule-layers as in other situations .
Outer Granule-layer ( fig. 1 , 2).-Owing to the peripheral situation of the outer granules belonging to the central cones , this layer is absent from the centre of the fovea .
It begins at a short distance from this latter , attains its maximum thickness near the foveal edge , then decreases gradually , and again increases towards the border of the macula .
This variation is due to the presence , at the margin of the fovea , of the granules belonging to the central cones in addition to those connected with the cones of this part , and to the increase of outer granules connected with the occurrence of rods towards the border of the macula .
The relation of the outer granules to the cones and rods ( figs. 2 &amp; 3 ) ( mentioned in the description of the bacillary layer ) indicates them to be nuclei of the inner segments of these .
In fresh specimens they are roundly oval bodies .
I have not been able to distinguish any constant difference between those associated with cones and those with rods .
The lozenge-shape of some granules in chromic-acid preparations results , I suspect , from their compression by the sheathing membrane of the rod or cone which shrinks under the action of the acid , or from traction exerted upon them by the coneor rod-fibre .
The fibres produced from the inner segments of the cones and rods-primitive bacillary fibres ( some of which connect these with the outer granules , fig. 1 , 2)-traverse the layer obliquely from its outer to its inner surface , and radially from the centre of the fovea towards the ora retinau .
At the inner surface of the layer they combine in a plexus ( fig. 1 , ,3 Cone-fibre plexus ) , which at the centre of the fovea ( where the outer granulelayer is absent ) lies between the bacillary and inner granule-layers , but at the margin of the fovea between the outer and inner granule-layers .
The thickness of this layer ( which in the chameleon I termed the cone-fibre plexus , H. MftLLER'S intergran1ule-layer ) at the margin of the fovea equals or slightly exceeds that of the combined outer and inner granule-layers .
The general direction of the bundles of the plexus coincides with that of the primitive bacillary fibres in the outer granule-layer ; it becomes , however , ' less oblique in the inner part of the plexus , where the bundles run nearly parallel to the surface of the inner granule-layer .
These inner bundles midway between the centre of the fovea and the edge of the macula form a stratum parallel to the surface of the inner granule-layer .
Beyond this point , with increasing distance from the centre of the fovea , the obliquity of the bundles increases until at the margin of the macula their direction is vertical .
At its inner surface the bundles of the plexus ( fig. 4 ) resolve themselves into primitive fibres which enter the inner granule-layer ( fig. 1 , 4 ) through a granular stratum of finely areolated connective tissue .
At the edge of the fovea and at the border of the macula , where the bundles of the plexus are very oblique or nearly vertical , the primitive fibres pursue the same direction for a short distance in the inner granule-layer , but where the bundles are parallel to the surface of the inner granule-layer , the resultant fibres pass off nearly vertically into this layer* .
An oblique fibrillation has long been known in the intergranule-layer of the human macula lutea .
BERGMAN seems first to have described it as a natural appearance .
H. MCLLER and KOLIKER originally regarded it as a post-mortem or an accidental change ; but subsequently ULLER , having discovered the oblique fibres in the chameleon 's macula , saw their correspondence to the oblique fibres in the intergranule-layer of the human macula , and acknowledged the oblique direction of these to be natural2 K6LLKE .
ER a year later described two forms of fibrillation in the human macula , and left it undecided which I BERGTWAN , Ztsch .
f. rat .
Med. N.F. V. S. 245 .
2 H. MULLER , Wiirzb .
Naturwiss .
Ztsch .
Bd .
iii .
S. 31 .
Inner Granular Layer ( fig. 1 , 5).-At the centre of the fovea this layer is very thin , and its innermost granules are not clearly separated from the outermost cells of the ganglionic layer ( fig. 6 ) ; but at the margin of the fovea it has already a considerable thickness , and the granular layer , now a distinct band , separates it from the ganglionic layer .
The granules are roundly oval nuclei of 000465 " diameter , and larger cells of 000697 " diameter , in some of which a nucleus is discernible .
The layer also contains obliquely and vertically radial fibres .
The latter are connected on the one side with the membrana limitans interna , and on the other with the thin granular band lying between the cone-fibre plexus and the inner granule-layer ; they are manifestly a modified connective tissue , and form conspicuous objects when examined with an -h " objective .
The oblique fibres are much more delicate , and require the highest magnifying powers for their demonstration ( fig. 5 ) .
With --h- " object-glass I traced their identity with the fibres which enter the layer from the cone-fibre plexus ( fig. 4 ) , and I have also seen the smaller inner granules or nuclei intercalated in the oblique fibres , and observed these connect themselves with the larger granules or cells .
T7he Granular Layer ( fig. 1 , 6).-This does not exist as a distinct layer at the centre of the fovea , but appears at a short distance from it in the angle between the inner granule and ganglionic layers .
At the margin of the fovea it has a thickness of 001627 " , which it keeps with little variation throughout the macula .
It transmits the connective tissue and nerve-fibres which pass between the inner granules and the ganglion-cells .
The Ganglionic Lager ( fig. 1 , 7).-At the centre of the fovea the ganglion-cells do not lie in a continuous band , but are scattered in , a double or treble series through a finely areQlated matrix of connective tissue .
At the margin of the fovea they lie closer together , four or five deep , in the spaces between the vertically radial connective-tissue fibres .
Throughout the fovea and macula the cells are separated from the membrana limitans interna by a narrow granular band .
This latter is structurally identical with the granular layer ; throughout the macula and fovea it contains optic nerve-fibres .
Connective-Tissue Structures.-The origin and distribution of the vertically radial was natural : one .
in which he says " the fibres in the intergranule-layer had an oblique and horizontal curve ( as BEGMxAN saw them ) ; " another , in which " they had a generally vertical direction broken by a double almost rectangular band " ' .
It does not , however , appear in their writings that BERGMAN , MtLI .
ER , or KoULIKER actually demonstrated the connexion of the oblique fibres of the intergranule-layer of the human macula with the elementary tissues of the other layers .
KULIrKERv says that he saw processes from the cones ( which he calls M31I.LER'S fibres ) in the intergranule-layer throughout the macula , even in the fovea itself , adding " they can be easily followed to the inner granule-layer ; " yet as he subsequently disputes SCnULTZE'S a statement-that the oblique fibrillation in the human macula occurs in the inner part of the outer granule-layer ( a layer which lies between the bacillary and the intergranule-layer)-he leaves the subject , even so far as his own observation goes , very ambiguous .
1 KOLLIKER , Handb .
der Gewebelehre , iv .
Aufi .
S. 674 .
2 SCHnLUTZE , Sitzungber .
der niederrhein .
Ges .
in Bonn , 1861 .
I regret that this paper has not been within my reach .
The reference I take from KULLIKER'S 'I Handbuch .
' fibres agree with that which obtains in other parts of the retina , only their branches are with difficulty traceable through the granular band lying between the cone-fibre plexus and the inner granule-layer , in which most of them appear to end .
They are also structurally connected with the finely areolated tissue composing the granular layer , and , further , with the interstitial tissue which pervades all the layers .
BloodVessels .
In none of my sections have I found blood-vessels at the centre of the fovea ; at the margin , however , capillaries occur , and small arteries are not uncommon within the limits of the macula .
The vessels nowhere penetrate beyond the outer surface of the inner granule-layer..Deductions .
1 .
Since the total of the effects of light upon living tissue will be greater as the extent of tissue traversed by it is greater , and since the relative common sensitiveness of a surface varies with the number of distinct sentient elements it contains , it follows that the greater length of the cones and rods , and their greater slenderness , which allows a larger number of them to the superficial unit , are in harmony with the greater sensitiveness of the retina at the macula lutea .
Inasmuch , however , as the foveal cones are stouter than the rods , a superficial unit at the centre of the fovea contains fewer sentient ( i. e. percipient ) elements than the same unit near the periphery of the macula lutea ; and on this ground the sensitiveness of the retina at the fovea should be less than that of the retina near the periphery of the macula .
On the other hand , the extreme thinness of the inner layers of the retina at the centre of the fovea , places the bacillary layer here most favourably for receiving incident light .
2 .
The division of the rods and cones into an outer and an inner segment is natural .
The facts in support of this are , the presence of the division in perfectly fresh specimens ; its sharpness and constant occurrence at a definite place ; the constantly rectilinear figure of the outer , and the curvilinear figure of the inner segment ; the different refractive powers of the segments ; and their different behaviour towards staining and chemical solutions .
3 .
From these structural differences it is a fair inference that the segments have different physiological meanings .
The higher refractive power , straight sides , and slender cylindrical or prismatic figure of the outer segment may be adaptations for confining within the segment light incident upon its end , and for preventing the lateral escape of light through the sides of the segment into neighbouring cones and rods .
These considerations incline me to adopt the opinion that this segment has an optical function , an , opinion which derives further support from the fact that , in those animals in which the segment is so wide a cylinder that a ray might be incident upon the inner surface of its sides at a small enough angle not to be reflected but to pass out , the segment is insulated by a sheath of black pigment .
The inner segments of the cones and rods are the specially modifiedd peripheral terminations of the optic nerve-fibres ; and at their junction with the outer segment the con version of light into nerve-force may take place .
4 .
The outer granules being the nuclei of the inner coneand rod-segments , probably maintain the integrity of these as living tissues , and are not directly concerned in their specific functions as organs of perception .
5 .
The primitive bacillary fibres are the link by which the cones and rods communicate through the inner granules and ganglion-cells with the optic nerve-fibres .
6 .
The smaller inner granules are nuclei of the oblique bacillary fibres in the inner granule-layer ; or they may be small bipolar ganglion-cells , and act specifically on the forces transmitted through the oblique fibres from the cones and rods .
The larger inner granules not being distinguishable by any definite structural characters from the smaller cells of the ganglionic layer , may agree with these latter cells in function .
7 .
Since the ganglion-cells ( of the ganglionic layer ) are fewer than the inner granules , and much fewer than the cones and rods , and since it is probable that these latter communicate with the optic nerve-fibres only through the ganglion-cells , it follows that one ganglion-cell probably is in correspondence with more than one inner granule and with several cones and rods .
From this it is not an improbable conjecture that the cones and rods are disposed in groups* , each of which is represented by one or more ganglioncells , the function of which is to connect or coordinate the individual action of the separate bacillary elements in their groups in a manner analogous to that attributed to the ganglion-cells of the spinal cord by V. der KoLK .
8 .
There is a close general resemblance between the human fovea and that of the chameleonf .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATE .
PLATE VII .
Fig. 1 .
A vertical section through the centre of the fovea centralis in the vertical meriridian , extending about halfway towards the periphery of the macula lutea , x 240 .
1 .
Bacillary layer .
2 .
Outer granule-layer .
3 .
Cone-fibre plexus .
4 .
A granular band between the latter and the inner granule-layer .
5 .
Inner granule-layer .
6 .
Granular layer .
7 .
Ganglionic layer .
a. Centre of fovea ; b , membrana limitans externa ; c , membrana limitans interna ; d , section of a blood-vessel .
Fig. 2 .
Three cones from the centre of the fovea , with outer granules lying in their diverging primitive fibres , X 1300 .
Fig. 3 .
Cones and outer granules from near the margin of the fovea .
The inner segments of the cones are coarsely granulated ; three include outer granules , and all produce a fibre which runs obliquely inwards through the outer granulelayer , x 1300 .
Fig. 4 .
A vertical section showing the passage of the primitive fibres of the cone-fibre plexus into the inner granule-layer midway between the centre of the fovea and the margin of the macula lutea , X 1300 : a. horizontal band of inner bundles of the cone-fibre plexus detaching fibres which traverse b , a finely areolated band lying between the plexus , and c the inner granule-layer ; d , an inner granule in one of these fibres .
Fig. 5 .
A vertical section through the inner granule-layer near the edge of the fovea , X 1300 : a , the granular band marked b in the preceding figure ; b , the smaller granules ; c , the larger granules ; d , obliquely directed bacillary fibres with which the granules are connected .
Fig. 6 .
A vertical section through the inner layers at the centre of the fovea , X 1300 : a , inner granules imbedded in areolated connective tissue ; b , ganglion-cells .
Note .
In order to include these figures in one Plate they have been much reduced from the size of the original drawings , the fine outlines and delicacy of which can scarcely be reproduced by lithography .

