1883.1 Formation of Uric Acid in the Animal Economy .
63 II .
" Preliminary Note on the Action of Calcium , Barium , and Potassium on Muscle .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Theodore Cash , M.D. Received February 13 , 1883 .
It has been shown by Ringer that calcium prolongs the contraction of the frog 's heart .
This prolongation is diminished by the subsequent addition of potash .
It occurred to us that calcium and potassium salts might exercise a similar action on voluntary muscle .
On trying it , we found this to be the case .
Calcium in dilute solution prolongs the duration of the contraction in the gastrocnemius of the frog .
Potassium salts subsequently applied shorten the contraction .
We have been led to try the effect of barium on muscle by considerations regarding the relations of groups of elements , according to Mendelejeff 's classification , to their physiological action .
These considerations we purpose to develop in another paper .
The effect of barium is very remarkable .
It produces a curve very much like that caused by veratria , both in its form and in the modifications produced in it by repeated stimuli .
We have found that the veratria curve is restored by potash to the normal in the case of the gastrocnemius , just as Ringer found it in the case of the frog 's heart .
The peculiarity which barium produces in the gastrocnemius is also abolished by potash .
We have tested a number of other substances belonging to allied groups , and find that some of them have a similar , though not identical , action with barium .
The results of these experiments , as well as the general considerations to which we have already alluded , we purpose to discuss in another paper .
III .
" On the Formation of Uric Acid in the Animal Economy and its relation to Hippnric Acid .
" By Alfred .
Baring Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The results which have been arrived at , and discussed in this communication , may be summed up as follows :\#151 ; Introduction.\#151 ; The solubility of uric acid and of some of its more important salts at the temperature of the healthy human body has been determined and arranged in a tabular form .
These figures may be useful for future reference .
The action of urates of ammonium and sodium upon chlorides and phosphates of the same bases , when mixed with each other in different proportions , has been ascertained .
Dr. A. B. Garrod .
[ Feb. 22 , Part I. The results of many fresh observations , which have been-made on the composition of the urinary excretion in several of the-lower animals , are given .
The physical and microscopic characters of the semi-solid urines of birds and reptiles and invertebrata have been investigated at length , an\lt ; ^ ^ shown that the urate is always in the form of spherule-aggregates , made up of a great number of smaller spherules ; that each of these is united with or contained in a cell of colloid matter , and that when treated with water and weak carbonated alkaline solutions , this solid urine swells up to very many times its original bulk .
The results of an investigation into the chemical composition of such urates are stated in a tabular form .
An examination of the blood of man and many mammals and birds and reptiles , especially in relation to uric acid , has been made , and the results are given .
Part IT.\#151 ; The different views as to the origin of uric acid in the animal body are discussed , and an endeavour is made to explain the various apparent difficulties of the subject .
The following points are especially dwelt upon :\#151 ; ( a. ) The very varying amounts of uric acid thrown out by different animals in relation to their total nitrogenised elimination .
( \amp ; .
) The excessively large excretion of uric acid by a great number-of the lower animals , as birds , reptiles , and invertebrate animals , compared with the weight of their bodies .
Under this head it is shdwn that whereas man excretes , on an average , m\,00th part of his weight of uric acid per diem , a bird often excretes as much as Ta oth part of its weight during the same period ; in other words , a bird throws out from its kidneys during a given time a thousand times more uric acid than a man .
The effect of uric acid and its salts upon the urinary excretion , when introduced into the animal economy , either with food or injected into the veins , is discussed , and it is shown that the kidneys do not possess the power of filtering uric acid from the blood when it is present in that fluid .
The different conditions in which uric acid is found in the kidneys and urinary excretions under varying circumstances , and also in the blood and tissues of the body , are dwelt upon .
The presence of uric acid in the urinary excretion of the young of the herbivorous mammal , and its usual absence in the case of the adult of the same species , are investigated ; it is also shown that , , whereas in the kidneys ammonia is combined with the acid , in the blood it is found as urate of sodium , as also when deposited in the different tissues of the body .
This latter phenomenon is explained in full .
1883.J Formation of Uric Acid in the Animal Economy .
=65 The normal presence of nric acid in the spleen , liver , and other r organs , even of animals in which the urinary excretion is usually free from this principle , is fully discussed and explained .
An investigation into the mutually destructive influence which uric ( I and hippuric acid exert upon each other is next detailed , and it is found that such action affords a clue to the solution of many of the difficulties of the subject .
The results of the whole investigation appear to show that uric acid I is not , as is commonly supposed , formed in the animal body during 1 the progress of the metabolism which is constantly going on in j different organs and tissues , then thrown into the blood and afterwards I filtered or strained off by the kidneys , and thus finally eliminated I from the body ; but that it is absolutely formed in the renal organs I themselves by the action of peculiar cells ; that it probably exists in j these cells as the urate of an organic base yielding ammonia , or as a i complex organic principle , readily splitting up into uric acid and j ammonia ; that , for the most part , it is excreted as such urate , which , however , may be changed into urate of sodium , or any other metallic urate , according as it subsequently meets with one or other i salt ; that , probably , there is always a trace of uric acid absorbed into I the blood from the kidney-cells ; but that , under certain circumstances , [ e.g. , when its forward progress is rendered difficult by tying the cloaca or the ureters of animals , or when other obstructive causes such as occur in disease , are at work , the absorption into the blood becomes greatly increased , and it is then converted into urate of sodium , on account of its then meeting with large amounts of the chloride and phosphate of that metal ; and that it is at times deposited , both in man and the lower animals , in different structures , .
such as the cartilaginous and fibrous tissues , in the form of crystallised urate of sodium .
The Appendix contains the details of many experiments , especially in relation to the destructive influence of hippurates and benzoates upon uric acid ; and of others which show the want of such power in the case of glycine , glucose , glycerine , and other substances .
vox .
, xxxv .
F

