Catalogue of 500 new Nebule , nebulous Stars , planetary Nebule , and Clusters of Stars ; with Remarks on the Construction of the fleavens .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read July 1 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 477.1 To this catalogue is prefixed a classification of the multitude of sidereal bodies hitherto discovered , not according to their apparent magnitudes or appearances on our earth , but according to their peculiar nature and arrangement in the heavens .
They are divided into the twelve following classes : 1 .
Insulated stars , or such as may be considered olut of the reacl of mutual -attraction ; such as our Sun , Arcturus , Capella , Lyra , Sirius , &amp;c. -These indeed , as well as all other heavenly bodies , cannot be said to be entirely free from the influence of the stars surrounding them ; but the character assigned to them is , that the attraction in one direction is so counteracted by a contrary influence of the same nature , as to be retained for many ages in a state almost equal to undisturbed rest .
Dr. Herschel suspects that we are to look for solar systems only among those insulated stars .
2 .
Binary sidereal systems , or double stars.-It is sufficiently obvious that these are not stars seen nearly in the same visual ray , for these rays may be an immense distance from each other ; but by these are meant two stars that are connected together by the influence of attraction .
It is easy to prove , by the doctrine of gravitation , that two stars thus connected , and sufficiently distant from the influence of other celestial bodies , will perform .
revolutions round a common centre of motion ; that hence they will always move in directions opposite and parallel to each other ; and that their system , if not destroyed by some foreign cause , will remain permanent .
This kind of rotation is exemplified by the instance of our earth and the moon .
Dr. Herschel proposes , on a future occasion , to communicate a series of observations made on double stars , whereby it will be seen that many of them have actually changed their situation with regard to each other , in a progressive course , denoting a periodical revolution round each other , and that the motion of some of them is -direct , while that of others is retrograde .
3 .
More complicated sidereal systems , or treble , quadruple , and multiple stars.-From the combination of two stars , it is easy to advance a step further , and allow that three or more stars may be connected in one mutual system of reciprocal attraction ; and the computation for determining the common centre of their respective orbits is here exemplified by a variety of hypothetical cases .
The author at the same time asserts , that there is not a single night when in passing over the zones of the heavens by sweeping , he does not meet with numerous collections of such multiple stars , apparently insulated from other groups , and probably joined in some small sidereal system of their own .
4 .
Clustering stars.-These are described as great collections of small stars that are profusely scattered over the milky way , by no means uniformly , but unequally dispersed in many separate allotments .
An instance of one of these aggregates is given , which in a space of about 50 between 13 and y Cygni , contains above 331,000 stars .
A more particular account of the milky way , we are promised , will be the subject of a future communication .
5 .
Groups of stars.-These differ from the preceding class by being collections of closely , and -almost equally compressed stars , of any figure or outline ; and from the next following , by showing no particular condensation that seems to point out any ideal centre of attraction .
6 .
Clusters of stars.-These are generally round , and the compression of their stars indicates a gradual accumulation towards their centre , whiere they are sufficiently condensed to produce the appearance of % nucleus .
These we are told are the most magnificent objects that can be seen in the heavens .
7 .
Nebul6e.-These , it is thought , may be resolved into the three last-mentioned species , only removed to such a distance that they can only be seen by means of the most powerful telescopes .
8 .
Stars with burrs , stellar Nebule.-These are thought to be clusters of stars , at great distances , the light of which is gathered so nearly into one point , as .
to leave but just enough of it visible to produce the appearance of burrs .
9 .
Milky nebulosities.-These phenomenon are probably of two different kinds , one of them being deceptions ; namely , such as arise from extensive regions of closely connected clustering stars contiguous to each other , like those that compose , our milky way : the other , on the contrary , being real , and possibly at no very great distance from us .
The milky nebulosity of Orion , discovered by Huygens , is given as an instance of this singular appearance .
10 .
Nebulous stars.-Whether these be the effect of the atmospheres of certain stars remains yet to be determined ; and indeed every thing respecting the nature of these appearances is still involved in much doubt and obscurity .
11 .
Planetary Nebule ; and 12 .
Planetary Nebulae with centres .
These also , thoughobjects manifestly distinct from the former ones , are as yet so imperfectly known , as to baffle all reasoning concerning their nature and habits ; and Dr. Herschel contents himself for the present with merely inserting the few he has observed in his catalogue .
Here follows the copious catalogue of Nebulae , &amp;c. , which being a continuation of two preceding papers of the like nature , and arranged in the same manner , requires no further explanation .

