[ 97 ] III .
The Pharmacology of Pyraconitine and Methylhenzaconine considered in Relation to their Chemical .
By J. Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Materia Medica the University of Aberdeen , and Wyndham R. Dunstan , , , Director of the Scientific and Technical Department of the Imperial Institute .
Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
In a previous paper ( ' Phil. Trans./ B , 1898 , vol. 190 , p. 239 ) we have shown that an entire change in the physiological action ensues on the withdrawal of the acetyl group from aconitine , as is seen in the action of benzaconine , the first hydrolytic product of aconitine , from which it differs in containing an atom of hydrogen in the place of one acetyl group .
This alkaloid is devoid of the characteristic physiological action and extraordinary toxicity of aconitine , whilst in respect of its action on the heart it is in the main antagonistic to that of the parent alkaloid .
In order to study further the remarkable dependence of the physiological action of this alkaloid on the presence of the acetyl group , we have examined the action of two derivatives of aconitine which we have obtained in this research , viz. , pyraconitine and methylbenzaconine .
Pyraconitine was first prepared by one of us ( Dunstan and Carr , ' Trans. Chem. Soc./ 1894 , vol. 65 , p. 176 ) by heating aconitine at its melting point , when the acetyl group is expelled as one molecule of acetic acid and the alkaloid pyraconitine remains . .
This compound , therefore , differs in composition from aconitine by the loss of one molecule of acetic acid and from benzaconine by one molecule of water .
Methylbenzaconine was obtained from aconitine by heating it with methyl alcohol in a closed tube ( ' Proc. Chem. Soc./ 1896 , p. 159 ) .
A remarkable reaction takes place , in which the acetyl group is ejected as acetic acid , a methyl group taking its place .
This alkaloid therefore differs from aconitine in containing a methyl group in the place of an acetyl group , and from benzaconine in containing a methyl group in the place of one atom of hydrogen .
The examination of its physiological action would therefore be the means of studying the result of replacing in aconitine the negative radical acetyl by the positive methyl group , and also of studying the effect of the introduction of methyl in modifying the physiological action of benzaconine .
The acetyl group of aconitine evidently occupies an exceptional position in the molecule of aconitine .
So far as we are aware it is the only acetyl compound at VOL. CXCV.\#151 ; B 209 .
O 30.4.1902 present known which exchanges this group for methyl when it is heated with methyl alcohol .
We have examined the behaviour of numbers of different types of acetyl derivatives from this point of view , and can find none analogous to aconitine .
For the study of their physiological action these alkaloids have been specially purified and employed as hydrobromides in aqueous solution .
Contrasting the physiological action of pyraconitine with that of aconitine , as described in the present paper , we find , as might be anticipated from our previous results , that through the removal of the acetyl group the great toxicity of aconitine is nearly entirely abolished , and the characteristic features of aconitine poisoning are no longer produced by pyraconitine .
Contrasting the physiological actions of benzaconine and pyraconitine , which differ from each other empirically by one molecule of water , pyraconitine , the anhydride , is the more active compound .
Both these alkaloids , divested of the acetyl group of aconitine , are relatively weak and feebly toxic when compared with the parent alkaloid .
Although benzaconine and pyraconitine exhibit a strong similarity in the physiological effects they produce , there are differences between them which are probably more considerable than they would be if pyraconitine were merely the anhydride of benzaconine .
The substitution in aconitine of methyl for acetyl , which occurs in the formation of methylbenzaconine , has led to a very considerable reduction in toxicity , but has introduced a curare-like effect similar to that first observed by Crum-Brown and Fraser ( 'Edinb .
Boy .
Soc. Trans./ vol. 25 , p. 151 ) from the introduction of methyl into the molecule of an alkaloid .
Methylbenzaconine is , however , more toxic and generally more powerful than benzaconine , chiefly owing to the presence of the methyl group .
Section IV.\#151 ; Pyraconitine .
Beyond a faint and transitory bitter taste pyraconitine ( '5 to 1 milligramme ) placed on the tongue produces no noticeable effect .
There is no local tingling , numbness , or anaesthesia , neither is salivation materially increased .
On Heart and Blood Pressure of Etherised Animals .
( Cats .
) Pyraconitine is an active reducer of the blood pressure , the fall occurring without preliminary rise , and progressing until only 25 to 50 millims. of mercury is registered .
At this point the decline becomes very gradual in character , even under lethal doses .
Slowing of the heart is the chief cause of this fall , and is due mainly to a direct effect upon the organ , as double vagus section produces only a partial and transitory acceleration .
Peripheral vagus stimulation remains effective throughout poisoning .
PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
Impaired action of the vaso-motor centre also favours the occurrence of a low blood pressure .
Lethal Dose.\#151 ; Experiments upon etherised cats , in which artificial respiration was maintained , showed a dose of *00649 gramme per kilogramme to be lethal in two hours , and *0056 about 20 minutes later .
Cat of 2850 grammes , etherised throughout , in warm box .
Preparation as usual for simple blood-pressure experiment .
Both vagi divided .
Registration of respiration from chest wall .
Time .
Blood pressure .
Pulse .
Resp .
Vagus and sciatic stimulation .
Notes .
mins .
mm. 0 95 175 23 V. coil 10 20 millims./ Sci. 8 21 55 / Inject .
005 gramme pyraconitine hypodermically .
17 86 171 23 45 82 125 19 72 65 122 15 81 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; V. coil 10 25 55 / Sci. 8 8 5 5 / 93 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Inject .
005 gramme pyraconitine .
132 68 101 12 164 56 92 12 V. coil 10 25 55 / Pulse dicrotic .
Inject '0025 .
Sci. 8 6 55 / 182 64 90 9 215 52 76 5 V. coil 8 15 55 / Sci. 6 5 55 / 230 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Gentle artificial respiration commenced .
Inject *0015 gramme atrop .
sulph .
by femoral vein .
240 70 87 \#151 ; \#151 ; Experiment terminated .
In this experiment *0125 gramme in all of pyraconitine was given , or about *004 gramme per kilogramme .
Experiments in which the chest wall was opened and the movements of the auricle and ventricle recorded , showed that as the effect of pyraconitine progressed , there was seldom ventricular irregularity or asequence upon auricular action .
The irregularity in rhythm ( when it did appear ) took the form of a temporary non-sequence of the ventricle to every second auricular beat .
On vagus section the heart was slightly accelerated and the pressure rose temporarily , whilst , if the nerve was stimulated , some slowing was always produced .
This slowing became less in degree ; it was succeeded by acceleration of rhythm .
The auricular and ventricular systole became less vigorous , the diastole retarded , until towards the end a deliberate forceless systole of the ventricle with long diastolic pause was recorded , o 2 Before injection of pyraconitine ( the levers write upwards in systole ) , pulse 158 per 1 minute ( pyraconitine , al ) .
30 minutes after injection of *008 gramme , 109 per 1 minute ( a2 ) .
98 minutes after first injection , and 38 after second ( '015 gramme in all ) , 76 per 1 minute ( a3 ) .
Pyraconitine on Mammalian Heart ( Auric , and Ventcl .
) and Pulse .
a3 .
a3 , 98 mins , after first injection a2 , 30 mins , after injection of al , before injection , and 38 mins , after second , pyraconitine , -008 gramme p.k. .015 gramme p.k. in all .
The Vagus and Vaso-motor Apparatus .
Pyraconitine is at first stimulant to the vagus mechanism both centrally and within the heart , whilst ultimately the controlling action of the stimulated nerves is reduced but not abolished .
Vagus section causes temporarily a quickening of the slowed heart , and thereafter atropine may accelerate the pulse by 12-15 per minute , the pressure rising in consequence , though not to the original level .
Pyraconitine appears from the first to depress the function of the vaso-motor ( vasoconstrictor ) centres , so that central sciatic stimulation ( the vagi being divided ) , stoppage of insufflation , \amp ; c. , cause only a brief and inconsiderable rise of pressure .
The peripheral splanchnics retain a considerable proportion of their activity throughout .
No marked diminution in function of motor-nerves ( phrenic and sciatic ) has been observed .
The respiratory centre is early and directly depressed ( as well as secondarily by the low blood pressure ) , and threatens to fail in action , thereby necessitating artificial respiration .
Nevertheless , at a late phase of poisoning , the stoppage of insufflation may stimulate sufficiently to cause a few feeble movements .
Death in PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
animals receiving lethal doses of pyraconitine is primarily due to central respiratory failure .
Action of Pyraconitine on Rabbits\#151 ; Effect on Respiration and Temperature .
The lethal dose lies between '0038 and '004 gramme per kilogramme .
An excessive lethal dose ( '005 per kilogramme ) produces little effect at first beyond an inconsiderable acceleration , followed by slowing of respiration , until in 18 minutes to 20 minutes a sudden dyspnoeic struggle occurs , the animal falling unconscious on the side , the limbs extended , the pupils dilated , and death supervening .
On rapidly exposing the heart , the right side of the organ with large venous trunks are found to be much engorged .
The auricles , however , continue beating ( in one instance for 30 minutes ) , and the ventricles contracting feebly .
The rapidity of the toxic action of this body given in lethal dose might be supposed to point to cardiac failure as a primary cause , were it not found that artificial respiration , when employed early , postpones or even obviates the lethal issue .
No oedema or extravasation is found in the lung substance .
The depressed condition of the circulation contributes powerfully to the respiratory collapse .
Sublethal doses produce a reduction of respiratory rhythm to below the normal : occasionally this is preceded by a transitory acceleration .
Dyspnoea may attend the former as well as the latter condition .
The temperature is reduced from 1-1 ' '5 C. , but this is recovered from in 2-2|- hours , and become thereafter slightly hypernormal .
Salivation is only rarely produced .
The rapid action of pyraconitine is suggestive of prompt absorption , but whether the early recovery is due to the high speed of elimination , cannot yet be stated withi certainty , though this is highly probable .
Experiment.\#151 ; ( Sublethal dose .
) A full-grown rabbit ( respiration , 70 ; rectal temperature , 40 ' ) .
0 minute .
Deceived pyraconitine , '00033 gramme per kilogramme hypo- 10 minutes .
dermically .
No excitement , occasional grinding of teeth .
Respiration , 81 .
30 " Temperature , 39''7 .
Respiration , 54 .
Temperature , 3 9''4 .
Tends to rest on side , but 45 " rises promptly .
Pupils dilated .
Ears warm .
Respiration , 42 .
Temperature , 39''4 .
Quiet .
Ears warm .
60 " " 48 .
" 39 ' .
No marked dyspnoea .
75 " 90 " " 52 .
" 39''3 .
" 58 .
" 39''8 .
Power in limbs returned .
240 " " 68 .
" 30''3 .
Feeding , not abnormal .
Experiment.\#151 ; ( Lethal dose .
) A full-grown rabbit received '004 gramme per kilogramme , to which it succumbed in 30 minutes .
Temperature rose T ' C. , and then declined by '4 ' C. Respiration slowed from the first .
There was paresis , especially of hind limbs , but slight convulsions preceded death .
In a further experiment , with a distinctly hyperlethal dose ( '00425 per kilogramme ) , death resulted in 6 minutes 30 seconds .
Action of Pyraconitine on Guinea-pigs .
The lethal proportion is about '0038 per kilogramme , and the symptoms are in the main similar to those witnessed in the rabbit , though clonic spasm is more frequently witnessed in guinea-pigs .
Action of Pyraconitine on Frogs .
The lethal dose is '048 per kilogramme for R. esculenta and '05 per kilogramme for R. temporaria .
These results were obtained from summer frogs .
No symptoms of excitement follow immediately on injection , the animal being quiescent ; the position assumed low , and the movements elicited short , slapping , and tremulous .
The general reflexes are sharp at first , and suggestive of a hypersesthetic state , but subsequently impaired , whilst the conjunctival reflex is relatively long maintained .
Spasm ( opisthotonos)is developed late ( 2-3 hours ) after moderate poisoning , and this symptom may recur during the ensuing 24 hours .
The spasm , which is generally provoked in the first instance by spontaneous movement , is of short duration , and is not produced by subsequent movement or contact so readily as is the strychnine spasm , there is consequently much less exhaustion of the cord induced .
When the action of the drug is passing off , the animal for a time shows abnormal excitement of movement , the spring being wild and forcible .
A large dose is rapidly lethal through circulatory failure , thus a proportion of '053 gramme per kilogramme arrested the heart ( R. esc .
) in 90 minutes , limb reflexes outlasting this event by 50 minutes .
When , however , a dose only slightly sublethal greatly interferes with the circulation , the cord reflex may be impaired for a time , hyper-sesthesia and a mildly tetanic state appearing at a later stage .
On Cord Reflex.\#151 ; All experiments conducted on brainless frogs with vascular ligature applied to one leg , go to show that reflex is , excepting in the class of case just referred to above , but little affected on the side open to circulation of pyraconitine , and that there is no evidence that reflex centres in the cord or sensory or motor nerves at the periphery are primarily depressed in their function .
The reflex becomes slightly retarded on both sides after large but sublethal doses .
In no reflex experiment has tetanic spasm been observed , and this fact points to the medullary or possibly cerebral origination of those movements which are seen in the uninjured PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
103 animal .
Ensuing excitement of movement is not demonstrable in the brainless frog .
On the Heart.\#151 ; The heart of an etherised frog exposed , the vagi being also prepared , showed the following phenomena after pyraconitine :\#151 ; II .
Heart beating 16-17 , completely arrested by vagus stimulation .
0 minute .
10 minutes .
25 \gt ; \gt ; 55 \gt ; \gt ; 75 85 100 320 \gt ; \gt ; 380 \gt ; \gt ; 420 Inject into dorsal sac , '002 gramme pyraconitine per kilogramme .
Heart , 16 .
Heart regular .
Vagus arrests .
Injected '001 per kilogramme .
14 .
Ventricle sometimes misses a beat .
Vagus arrests .
Beating 12 A to 6V .
, , 12A to 6V .
Vagus checks .
, , 8 A to 4V .
" actively controls .
Vagus stand-still maintained for 1 minute .
( Coil 5 .
) " 8A to 2V .
The most obvious results are a slowing of the auricles and ventricle .
Later , a single ventricular beat in sequence to two , or ultimately to many , auricular beats .
The auricle if much slowed is frequently found to be in sequence with every second sinus beat .
Acceleration of the ventricle and tendency to restoration of the normal sequence after contact with atropine , are also recognised .
To illustrate the last point : in one case of advanced pyraconitine effect the auricle was beating 20 , the ventricle 2 , per 1 minute .
Two applications of a drop of 1 per cent , atropine sulphate solution brought the ventricle in 30 minutes up to 8 , and in 2 hours it was beating steadily 16 per 1 minute , the auricle also 16 .
Perfusion of the ventricle by pyraconitine T milligramme causes some retardation in the diastolic phase , whilst larger amounts are followed by weakening of the systolic force .
If beating spontaneously , the rate is at first slightly accelerated and then much slowed .
On Sensory and Motor Nerve and Muscle .
Reference to the result of reflex experiment make it clear that there is no marked effect , sensory or motor , produced by pyraconitine ( in doses of lethal proportion ) at the periphery .
Further , repeated contrasts of the reaction of nerve-muscle preparations derived from companion limhs , to one of which a vascular ligature has been applied , have shown that after a moderate degree of poisoning there is but little effect produced upon minimal excitability , whilst the poisoned muscle responds almost as well as the unpoisoned , to both indirect and direct stimulation .
Even with the greatest extent of poisoning compatible with continued absorption and distribution of the alkaloid by the heart , the work capacity of the muscle , indirectly stimulated , is not at first seriously impaired ; but on repeatedly stimulating , a fatigue effect is more easily produced , and the rigid contraction produced by faradisation tends to break down .
Experiment.\#151 ; Rana esculenta of 25 grammes ; brain destroyed ; vascular ligature applied to left leg .
Injected pyraconitine '06 per kilogramme into dorsal sac .
Just before circulation ceased , two muscle-nerve preparations were made and tested .
Fig. bl-b2 .
Minimal excitability ( poisoned side ) indirect , 19 centims. direct , 10 , , " " ( ligatured side ) indirect , 25 , , direct , 11 " On repeated stimulation , a good and well maintained series of contractions to opening induction shocks was registered , but response to the interrupted current soon failed .
Lever X 7 .
Wt .
10 grammes .
Muscle-Nerve Stimulation , Frog poisoned by Pyraconitine , '06 p.k. Ligatured side .
Poisoned side .
PHARMACOLOGY OF PRY ACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
Contraction to single induction shocks .
Faradisation for 10 seconds . !
Ligatured side Poisoned side .
Indirect .
Direct .
Indirect .
Direct .
Contraction to indirect faradisation is better j sustained , to direct is practically equal on the two sides ( bl ) .
The contraction to indirect faradisation tends to break down ( b2 ) .
33 millims. 32-30 " 33 millims. 31-32 " 57 millims. 49 " 3 52 millims. 51 " The main effects of pyraconitine may be thus summarised .
Its local application is devoid of the effects characteristic of the aconitines .
Its chief action upon the heart is to cause slowing partly from vagus irritation , partly from depression in function of intrinsic rhythmical and motor mechanisms .
There is less tendency to want of sequence in the cardiac chamber walls than is observed after the aconitines and benzaconine .
The vagus apparatus remains active in degree after doses somewhat in excess of the lethal , the slowed heart of pyraconitine being accelerated both by vagotomy and by atropine .
Activity of respiration is reduced ( by central depression ) to a degree incompatible with life , as is the case after aconitine and benzaconine .
The peripheral motor nerves and muscular tissues are not at this time markedly affected .
Artificial respiration prolongs life , but the slowed heart and the greatly reduced blood pressure tend to a final issue .
The spinal cord is impaired in its reflex function , apparently secondarily to reduced circulation in its structure .
A tendency to tonic spasm in frogs is late in appearing and of moderate degree .
It has not been seen after destruction of brain and medulla .
It is further succeeded by a curious condition of exaggerated motility .
Neither muscular nor intramuscular nervous tissue are strongly influenced by pyraconitine in lethal or somewhat hyperle^hal doses .
The lethal dose per kilogramme frog 's weight is practically about twelve times that which is lethal per kilogramme rabbit 's weight .
Section V.\#151 ; Methylbenzaconine .
Taste.\#151 ; The taste of methylbenzaconine is transitorily and by no means intensely hitter .
It does not occasion the local effects of aconitine .
YOL .
CXCV.\#151 ; B. P Metkylbenzaconine on Heart and Blood Pressure of Etherised Animals .
( Cats .
) Though by no means an active cardiac poison , the effect of methylbenzaconine is well defined .
Pulse slowing is developed from the first , the ventricle filling well , and continuing to beat with considerable force .
The slowing is not materially affected by vagus section nor by atropine administration .
Associated with the slowing and contributing to the fall of blood pressure which accompanies it , is reduced activity of the vaso-motor centre , and , to a lesser extent , of the vascular constricting action of the splanchnic , but in neither respect does this progress to complete suspension of function .
Out of four experiments in which the cardiac vagus reaction was specially examined , total loss of function was seen twice , whilst in the other two a fall of blood pressure , equal to only a few millimetres of mercury , followed .
Slowing of the heart progresses until a very deliberate but steady pulse , which may have only one-half to one-third of the original speed , is recorded .
The changes in rhythm of the various parts of the heart are interesting .
At first the auricles and ventricles , though slowed , hold their due sequence , but after a considerable interval they begin to show an alternating character of beat , of which the second is feebler in character ; and whilst the auricular contractions remain distinct , the ventricular coalesce , so that the second becomes a mere wave on the major systole .
Diastole of both auricles and ventricles is imperfect , the walls relaxing imperfectly , whilst their systole , as poisoning progresses , becomes less complete .
( Small doses slow the heart without weakening the systole , though the diastole is somewhat retarded .
) It is usually observable that , as the entire failure of the ventricle to follow every second auricular beat is established , some acceleration of the rhythm of the latter occurs , so that it approximates to , or may actually reach , the original rate .
In one experiment the auricles and ventricles , originally beating-144 ( cl ) , were slowed in one hour and a-half by a dose of '004 gramme per kilogramme weight to 126 , the pressure having fallen from 120 to 62 .
At this time paired ventricular beats appeared , and 30 minutes later the ventricle was beating steadily at 96 , the auricles at 192 per 1 minute ( c2 ) , every second auricular being partial in character , whilst 24 minutes subsequently the ventricles and pulse were 45 per minute and the auricles 90 ( c3 ) .
A trace of inhibitory effect was still recognisable on strong vagus stimulation , but the rhythm was unaffected by injection of atropine , and persisted until immediately before death .
This relationship of ventricular and auricular rhythm , though the most usual , is not the only one observed , the ventricle occasionally failing to follow every third or every fourth ( dl ) auricular beat , or a complex ventricular movement having a bigeminal character , but resulting in a single pulse , may follow two or three ( el ) auricular systoles .
( Close inspection reveals fluctuation in the strength of the auricular contractions .
) A normal sequence may be established shortly before death .
PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND JVIETHYLBENZACONINE .
Methylbenzaconine produces much impaired action of* the medullary centres , which are affected directly , and no doubt secondarily also , by the low blood pressure .
The observation that vagus section does not accelerate the heart has been referred to .
Methylbenzaconine on Mammalian Heart and Pulse .
( The levers write upwards in systole .
) c3 .
c3 , taken 24 mins , later .
c2 .
c2 , after injection of methbenzacn .
, .004 gramme p.k. Methylbenzaconine on Mammalian Heart and Pulse .
Methylbenzaconine on Mammalian Heart and Pulse .
( The levers write upwards in systole .
) dl , 120 mins , after methylbenzacon .
, '0125 gramme p.k. Four auric , to three ventcl , contractions .
el , three auric , to one effective ventcl .
P 2 The vasoconstrictor centre is early depressed by methylbenzaconine , its response to sensory stimulation becoming feeble as poisoning proceeds , and to this as well as to the slowed pulse the steady and extensive fall of pressure is due .
The innervation of the vessels is slightly interfered with , as splanchnic ( peripheral ) stimulation is reduced in effect , though operative in degree , throughout .
The respiratory centres are early and progressively reduced in activity .
Whilst intramuscular motor nerves are depressed in function , in no instance has the reaction of the sciatic been suspended even by lethal doses of methylbenzaconine .
Experiment.\#151 ; Cat of 3020 grammes , etherised , placed in warm box , cannulas in trachea and right carotid artery .
Left splanchnic , left vagus , and left sciatic divided , on electrodes .
Pericardium opened .
Left auricle and left ventricle attached to recipient tambours in pneumatic connection with recording tambours ( the movement upwards of the levers indicating systole ) .
Insufflation through ether bottle by means of warm air .
Time .
Blood pressure in millimetres of mercury .
Left auricle , ventricle , and pulse .
Notes .
mins .
0 120-123 160-163 I Blood pressure steady .
Vagus stimulation ( 12 ) pressure , 8 116 162 22 millims. Splanchnic ( 10 ) , 22 millims. Injected methylbenzaconine ( '0025 gramme per kilogramme ) hypodermically .
17 103 159 Pressure falling very steadily .
33 93 165 ; 50 84 162 1 Splanchnic stimulation as before .
Vagus stimulation , 68 12 millims. Sciatic stimulation , 13 millims. Inject methylbenzaconine 78 65 ( .0016 gramme per kilogramme ) .
Splanchnic stimulation as before .
Vagus stimulation , 88 61 155 11 millims. Sciatic stimulation , 9 millims. Cut remaining ( R. ) vagus .
No acceleration .
Stopping 110 48 148 respiration caused fall of blood pressure .
Vagus stimulation inoperative .
Splanchnic stimulation , 136 54 120 10 millims. Sciatic stimulation , 6 millims. Bigeminal beat of ventricle .
158 56 120 Auricle regular .
Only first systole of ventricle effective .
171 62 160 Au .
The second inoperative beat disappeared under vagus stimulation .
Rhythm steady .
Two auricular to one ventricular .
172 | 80 V. Inject methylbenzaconine ( '0029 gramme per kilogramme ) .
190 65 166 Au .
Rhythm steady .
Splanchnic stimulation , 20 millims. rise .
245 47 83 V. 148 Au .
Sciatic stimulation .
Short rise with sudden fall .
No rise on stopping artificial respiration .
264 74 V. Inject atropine sulph .
, '0016 gramme , into peritoneal cavity .
312 52 158 Au .
325 48 79 V. 150 Au .
Stopping artificial respiration .
Steady fall of pressure .
75 V. Five faint gasping respirations occurred as pressure fell .
PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
In this experiment , in the course of about three hours methylbenzaconine was injected in quantities which altogether represent a proportion of '007 gramme per kilogramme .
The doses are repeated at long intervals , but this proportion , even if given at a single dose , is still distinctly sublethal .
It will be noted that slight pulse acceleration was caused by atropine .
The action of methylbenzaconine towards mammals is transitory , elimination apparently taking place very rapidly .
This observation does not apply to frogs .
Action on Respiration and Temperature Rabbits .
A medium dose of methylbenzaconine causes some retching , grinding of the teeth , and salivation , a lethargic state with failure of strength primarily in the muscles supporting the head and in the fore limbs .
The hind legs are affected later .
Respiration becomes slow and jerking or abrupt in character .
The heart continues to beat vigorously ; slight anaesthesia is present .
Temperature ( internal ) is gradually reduced , the maximal fall being recorded about 80 minutes after administration .
Respiration begins to accelerate before , or at the same time as , the rise of temperature commences .
Rabbit of 1900 grammes .
Temperature 390,9-39''4 .
Respiration 80'-84 ' .
Mins .
Temp. Resp .
0 Injected hypodermically methylbenzaconitine *0085 gramme per kilogramme o 10 Slight licking and chewing movement 38-8 60 20 As above 38-5 48 25 Head droops .
Lies .
Tends to fall on side \#151 ; \#151 ; 30 Hind limbs much weaker 38-2 48 40 Chewing occasionally , very slight salivation .
Attempts to rise , 38-0 44 sinking of head attended by jerking movement .
No noticeable anaesthesia .
Paresis as before i 50 Ataxic .
No anaesthesia 38-2 56 70 Urinated .
Tremor in buccal and jaw muscles 38-4 52 80 38-6 60 90 38-8 80 105 Ataxic symptoms disappearing .
Beginning to sit up ... .
\#151 ; \#151 ; 120 Moving more spontaneously 39-2 1 80 130 39-4 76 150 180 Lively .
Runs and eats . .
40-4 68 1 PROFESSORS J. T. CASH AND W. R. DUNSTAN ON THE Experiment with Lethal Effect.\#151 ; Full-grown rabbit ( respiration 72 , rectal temperature , 38''5 ) received '0095 methylbenzaconine per kilogramme hypodermically .
12 minutes .
Quiet .
Sinks on belly .
Chewing at intervals .
Respiration , 46 .
14 " Rolled on side , but runs if roused .
Respiration , 48 ; no true dyspnoea .
Struggles but weakly if lifted up .
18 , , Cannot run .
Very slight salivation .
21 , , Ear pale .
Pupil contracted .
No chewing .
Head low .
Hind legs weak .
Looks sleepy .
On attempting movement drifts from side to side .
25 , , On side , cannot rise .
Makes feeble running movements .
Pupil contracted , sensitive .
Temperature , 37''6 .
Respiration , 24 .
29 , , Respiration fainter , and death without spasm .
Pupil dilated .
On opening the pericardium all the cavities of the heart are found to be dilated .
Vermicular movements of ventricles .
On bleeding , auricles begin to beat steadily , 36 per minute , ventricles replying to mechanical stimulation or induction shock .
Sciatic stimulation causes twitch at 31 and good series of contractions at 30 centims. The action of smaller doses may be thus summarised :\#151 ; '0043 methylbenzaconine per kilogramme body weight caused a fall of '3 ' C. , and transitory slowing of respiration by 10 per minute .
.006 per kilogramme caused fall of 1 ' C. , and slowing of respiration by 18 per minute ; slight paresis , mainly in fore limbs .
On Guinea-pigs .
'0095 gramme per kilogramme proved very rapidly lethal to guinea-pigs , whilst '0075 was occasionally so .
The lethal proportion lies between these figures .
The symptoms are grinding of teeth , salivation , retching , drooping of head , developing paralysis of the limbs with inco-ordinated movement , especially of the hind legs .
Clonic movement of the head develops , and persists for some time .
Dyspnoea , which shows exacerbations , accompanied by retching and scrambling movements , is a marked symptom .
Nasal and lachrymal secretions are increased , and there are frequent evacuations of soft dejecta .
Unless the animal is kept in a warm atmosphere , a large fall of temperature with prolongation of symptoms of poisoning results .
Thus an animal which received *008 gramme per kilogramme , and was kept at a temperature of 15 ' C. , showed a fall of no less than 5''6 C. ( 39'7 to 34T ) .
Cold rigors were prominent in this experiment .
In another experiment '007 gramme per kilogramme caused a fall of 5 ' C. , whilst PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
Ill the respiration , though dyspnoeal , never fell below 48 per 1 minute .
Voluntary movement was greatly impaired , but began to return before the temperature rose .
Methijlbenzaconine on Frogs ( Rana .
esc .
and Rana .
temp. ) .
There is no evidence of sensory excitement after large sublethal doses , though movement may be rather restless at first .
Lethargy , with restriction or absence of voluntary movement , supervenes .
Fibrillation occurs in many muscles , and if movement is induced this condition is exaggerated .
Respiratory movement outlasts conjunctival reflex .
The general reflexes fall some minutes after respiration has ceased . .
Fibrillation outlasts reflex failure .
Before reflex disappears a feeble and unsustained spasmodic contraction of the limbs has been occasionally seen .
When the animal has become quite motionless examination of the web shows persistent action of the heart , and this condition may last for 36 to 48 hours , when reflex ( general ) begins to return , succeeded by eye reflex and respiration .
If the iliac vessels of one side are ligatured ( under ether ) before injection is made , it is found that reflex persists in this leg for a considerable time after it has disappeared from the open side , and further that stimulation of the latter causes cross reflex in the former whilst itself failing to respond by movement .
Stimulation of the fore arm or trunk is followed by the same effect , longitudinal conduction being-maintained .
Intramuscular motor-nerves are therefore reduced or suspended in their function before the sensory are much involved .
The action upon the cord by methylbenzaconine , except after very large doses , is relatively slight and transitory in character , for , even at the height of poisoning , when reflex has almost or completely disappeared from the protected leg , the injection of strychnine will develop short but distinct spasm of its muscles .
The following table shows the order in which some of these effects occur ; the results are taken from experiments upon R. esculenta made in June and July :\#151 ; Dose of methylbenzaconine per kilogramme .
Respiration abolished .
Reflex gone .
Fibrillation ceases .
1 Excitability of sciatic nerve gone to induction shock .
Eye .
General sensory .
mins .
mins .
mins .
mins .
mins .
.02 122 75 not 'quite 217 not quite .05 80 60 84 130 139 .08 62 48 75 89 \#151 ; .1 16 12 25 32 \#151 ; Lethal Dose.\#151 ; In June recoveries usually occur ( temp. ) after doses of '088 and once after 0*1 , but not beyond this point .
A proportion of '11 may be regarded as lethal for summer specimens of R. esc .
In winter the resistance is less , the heart failing gradually under doses of '075 per kilogramme .
For temp. , examined in January , recoveries were usual but not universal up to '078 per kilogramme , above this proportion the heart failed .
Whilst smaller doses are not active towards muscular tissue , except by somewhat increasing its excitability , larger ones certainly are so , the contraction being feeble from the first , or becoming so on their repetition , when contrasted with those yielded by the muscle sheltered from the local effect of the poison .
Experiment .
( June .
) R. esculenta .
Under ether , vessels of right leg ligatured .
After complete recovery from the anaesthetic inject methylbenzaconine 0 minute .
10 GO 083 gramme per kilogramme into dorsal sac .
No sign of local irritation , the animal has , however , been moving about .
Quiescent , apathetic , position low .
All reflexes impaired .
Gets off back .
Left foot chiefly moved when right stimulated .
Eye reflex very feeble .
Respiration slow and intermittent .
Web of left foot spread occasionally in spasmodic manner .
Fibrillation in trunk and right leg muscles .
Eye reflex gone , but both legs occasionally moved spontaneously , the right very feebly , the left with much force .
Does not get off back .
No inspiration .
No right reflex but cross to left .
Sensation , however , reduced on open side .
Ileflex of left leg to its own stimulation and from stimulation of arm or right leg .
Fibrillation gone .
Left reflex active .
Pupil contracted ( of course no reflex ) .
Circulation excellent in the right leg .
Decapitated .
On destroying cord , only the left leg moved .
Muscle-nerve preparations examined .
No reaction obtained by stimulating the nerve of preparation from right ( poisoned ) leg .
The muscle , though yielding a fair contraction at first , soon shows evidence of fatigue .
The protected ( left ) nerve-muscle preparation gives excellent and well sustained contractions both to indirect and direct stimulation .
The fibrillation , which is so uniformly present after injection of this derivative , is not suspended in a limb by nerve section nor yet by destruction of the spinal cord , it is therefore peripheral in causation .
PHARMACOLOGY OF PYEACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
On Reflex .
The brain having been destroyed in specimens of R. temp , or R. esc .
, on the succeeding day vascular ligature was applied to one leg and the reflexes were thereafter tested .
Subsequently to injection of methylbenzaconine , withdrawal of the foot on the open side soon fails whilst persisting on the side of ligature , a cross reflex is elicited from the former to the latter for a varying but often considerable period ( when the dose is moderate ) , showing that sensory nerves retain some function ( though it is impaired ) after intramuscular motor nerves have been put out of action by access of the poison .
If the dose is carefully adjusted direct reflex may be preserved on the ligatured side for 24 to 36 hours , whilst the other leg is immobilised , but larger amounts suspend the reflex activity of the cord to acid stimulation .
As the open leg is immobilised before the fore legs , stimulation of the latter causes movement of the protected side at a time when the poisoned leg is unmoved , showing that longitudinal conduction is possible .
Injection of Strychnine .
If a frog , poisoned as just described , receives a dose of strychnine , as reflex fails on the open side , a feeble clonus breaking down into fibrillation will be produced there , whilst the protected side passes into rigid spasm .
This clonus speedily fails , whilst spasm in the protected leg is long maintained , and may even persist until it reappears in the poisoned limb .
Strychnine arouses spasm , though it may be unsustained and weak in character on the protected side when no peripheral stimulation is followed by reflex response , so that this function of the cord is apparently more resistant towards methylbenzaconine than is that of the cutaneous sensory nerves .
Strychnine spasm reappears in the poisoned limb shortly before reflex movement is resumed in it .
On the Frog 's Heart .
Methylbenzaconine in small and medium doses does not materially affect the rhythm , and the force of the ventricular systole is well maintained .
From perfusion experiments an actual increase in systolic force , with some delay in relaxation during diastole , is recognisable .
The gradual perfusion of the apex with doses ranging from *0005 gramme to '000005 has such a result .
Large sublethal and lethal doses affect the rhythm , especially by hindering sequence of auricles and ventricle upon every second or third beat of the sinus , or similarly by interrupting sequence of ventricle upon the auricles .
The systolic force is much reduced .
There is a tendency to group beating when the ventricle is ligatured on the cannula at the groove .
vol cxcv.\#151 ; b , PROFESSORS J. T. CASH AND W. R. DUNSTAN ON THE The stimulated vagus which has been proved operative in slowing or altogether arresting the heart before injection , soon evidences a declining inhibitory action after large doses of methylbenzaconine , so that in 30 minutes there is only a slight slowing , and in 50 minutes to 60 minutes an absence of all effect , the heart showing absolute indifference to all vagus stimulation .
At a later period the inhibitory action ot the stimulated sinus is also interfered with , but it is not in all cases that this is entirely suspended .
Out of six experiments directed to this point , in all of which the vagi were put completely out of action .
, the sinus retained some restraining action in four , in two only was it rendered indifferent to stimulation .
The heart arrested by toxic doses of methylbenzaconine may sometimes be aroused to temporary action by vagus stimulation , the auricle usually beating for some time before the ventricle follows .
Action on Sensory Nerves .
There is some slight impairment in the activity of the sensory nerve fibres at a time when intramuscular motor-nerves are put out of action by methylbenzaconine , and further depression in their function is observable subsequently .
Action of Methylbenzaconine on Motor Nerves and Muscle .
It has been already noted that large doses of the alkaloid may altogether abolish excitability of intramuscular motor-nerves of frogs , and that the muscle substance becomes involved also , so that the work capacity , especially as elicited by repeated faradisation , is slightly reduced , fatigue being readily developed .
Smaller doses are followed by impaired response to indirect , but full response to direct , stimulation .
Such an effect is shown in the record of an experiment .
Experiment.\#151 ; In a decerebrated R. temp , of 32 grammes , the left leg vessels were ligatured , and methylbenzaconine , *05 gramme per kilogramme , injected .
The usual symptoms ensued .
At the time of making the preparation ( 3 hours later ) there was moderate reflex from the left foot to itself ( the extension being accompanied with slight stiffness of the limb muscles and tension of the swim web ) ; the right leg was not moved from its own stimulation , but there was a slight cross reflex from it to the left .
The heart beating well , 22 ( systole prolonged ) , two auricular beats to one ventricular .
Destruction of the cord provoked movements in both hind limbs .
Minimal excitability ( ligatured side ) , N 20 centims. M 13*5 .
" " ( poisoned " ) , N 12 centims. M 14-5 .
Stimulation of the latter , f 2 , by series of induction opening shocks , gave reactions PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
of 25 millims , falling to 18 after 36 contractions .
The stimulation ( direct ) of the muscle gave a good series of contractions of 32 millims. , f 4 .
Musc.-Nerve preparations from li .
temp. , partly Poisoned by Methylbenzaconine , *05 gramme .
Tet .
taken after stim .
by single induction shocks .
0 iud .
shock every 1 sec. f 1 , stim .
of nerve , f 3 , stim .
of muscle ( direct ) .
Poisoned .
0 ind .
shocks , f 2 , stim .
of nerve .
Coil 12 .
f 5 , tet .
indirect Tet .
( indirect ) , no reaction .
f 4 , stim .
of muscle .
Coil 8 .
f 6 , tet .
direct .
f 7 , tet .
direct .
The nerve now failed utterly on restimulation , and no tetanic contraction could be obtained from the strongest stimulations .
Tetanus of muscle , 61 millims. , f 7 .
Ligatured side : indirect stimulation by opening shocks 26 to 31 millims. , f 1 ; well maintained .
Direct , 33 millims. , f'3 .
Faradisation : indirect , 61 millims. , f 5 ; direct , 61 millims. , f 6 .
PROFESSORS J. T. CASH AND W. R. DUNSTAN ON THE The intramuscular nerve endings rapidly fail in function under stimulation , and intervals of rest do not in any way reinstate excitability .
The recovery of reaction on resting after such a failure ( which is so characteristic of the benzaconine muscle indirectly stimulated ) has not been witnessed after methylbenzaconine .
Muscle Curve.\#151 ; The curve of the muscle derived from a frog exposed to large p doses of methylbenzaconine becomes more rapidly elongated on repeated stimulation than does that derived from the protected muscle .
Further , the second summit of the curve tends to increase at the expense of the first , which undergoes rapid diminution .
The action of methylbenzaconine may be summed up as follows :\#151 ; It is very feeble in its toxicity when contrasted with aconitine , but is stronger than benzaconine .
Small and medium doses , whilst slowing the heart , do not cause any failure in sequence , but larger doses have this effect .
They act upon the rhythm of the organ , involving the movement of both auricle and ventricle , whilst ultimately the sequence of the latter upon the former is impaired , so that it follows only a certain proportion of the auricular " leads .
" This block is not removed by atropine .
Whilst the passage of the ventricle into diastole is at first retarded , the contractile power of the myocardium is ultimately reduced by methylbenzaconine .
The cardiac vagus is depressed in action , and its inhibitory function is ultimately suspended by large doses , neither section of the vagus nor atropine administration relieving the slow and faulty action of the organ .
There is evidence of slight primary stimulation of reflex cord centres when ligature of vessels prevents the masking of this condition by the peripheral action of the poison .
The subsequent impairment in cord reflexes is later in occurring , and of much shorter duration than the action of methylbenzaconine upon intra-muscular motor nerves .
In mammals the paralytic symptoms are predominant ; the fall of temperature is in part attributable to this cause , as well as to the changes in the circulation .
The clonic movement and salivation ( observed in a certain stage of the action of methylbenzaconine , especially upon guinea-pigs ) are suggestive of the action of a near ally of aconitine .
In frogs , however , there is no semblance to an aconitine effect , unless its very feeble action towards sensory nerves , or its much more powerful action upon motor nerves , be thus viewed .
Motor nerves are greatly affected by doses which are distinctly below the lethal for cold-blooded animals , the action being curare-like in character .
Muscular tissue is , after the action of large doses , more susceptible of fatiguing influences .
Fibrillation in muscles to which the poison has access is more common than after aconitine or any other derivative examined .
These observations support in the main the contention of Crum-Brown and Fraser , that the introduction of methyl into the molecule of certain spasm-producing PHARMACOLOGY OF PYRACONITINE AND METHYLBENZACONINE .
alkaloids masks the effect of these hy occasioning a curare-like action at the periphery .
Contrasted Effects of Pyr aconitine and 01 these two alkaloids pyraconitine is approximately six to seven times more toxic towards mammals ( rabbits and guinea-pigs ) than benzaconine , and five to six times more so towards frogs .
They are alike in their action upon mammals , in so far as they are non-irritant , that they slow the respiration without preliminary acceleration , that they slow the heart and reduce the blood pressure to a very low level , that they cause paresis , and in guinea-pigs clonic movements , and that respiratory failure is the immediate cause of death .
They differ , in so far that pyraconitine acts more rapidly but for a shorter period , whilst fatal termination of poisoning is preceded hy convulsions which are very rare after benzaconine .
Benzaconine alters the sequence of the ventricles upon the auricles much more usually , and to a greater extent than pyraconitine , though , if asequence is developed , it has the same general character ( the auricular second beat being blocked from the ventricle ) .
Whilst pyraconitine stimulates the cardiac vagus both centrally and within the heart ( section and atropine causing acceleration ) , and finally occasions only a limited reduction in its activity , benzaconine produces but little stimulation , and ultimately suspends the vagus inhibitory action .
Under these conditions atropine is , of course , inoperative .
Both accelerate the heart in small , but slow it in large , dose .
Frogs poisoned by benzaconine lose the power of voluntary movement , then reflex disappears , and finally the circulation is arrested , but after pyraconitine , reflex outlasts the heart 's action .
Late spasm occurs after the latter but not after the former .
Whilst in lethal doses pyraconitine has no effect beyond somewhat favouring fatigue and reducing excitability of motor-nerves , benzaconine greatly impairs their function , and in thorough poisoning , may suspend it entirely . .
Contrasted Effects of Methylbenzaconand Benzaconine .
Methylbenzaconine is from three to four times more toxic towards rabbits and guinea-pigs than benzaconine , and from twice to thrice as toxic towards frogs ( R. temp , and R.esc .
) .
In mammals slight salivation , retching movements , and muscular tremor are characteristic effects of the former , hut dyspnoea , ataxia , and paresis are also seen after benzaconine .
Of the two , methylbenzaconine is distinctly less depressent towards the heart .
Slowing of the pulse and want of sequence of ventricular and auricular action occurs after both , but is a much earlier symptom after benzaconine , which causes much more disorder in the motor mechanism .
On the other hand , the intra-cardiac vagus is put out of function more rapidly by methylbenzaconine .
Death after either poison is rarely preceded by spasm .
Neither of the two compounds causes any local sensory irritation in frogs , but methylbenzaconine produces active fibrillation in the muscles to which it gains access , and develops a complete curare-like action much more prominently than does benzaconine , the heart continuing to beat strongly .
Benzaconine , in dose sufficient to cause such an effect at the periphery , acts disastrously upon the circulation .
In partial poisoning by methylbenzaconine the characteristic rapid failure on stimulation of the intra-muscular motor nerves is well marked , but the subsequent recovery on resting , so characteristic of benzaconine , has not been observed .
Contrasted Effects of Methylbenzaconine and Aconitine .
The toxicity of aconitine is roughly eighty to one hundred times that of methyl-benzaconine towards rabbits and guinea-pigs , and much the same proportion holds for summer and winter frogs respectively .
Whilst slight tendency to salivation and retching movements are produced by methylbenzaconine , and are in so far suggestive of a slight aconitine action , the absence of initial acceleration of respiration , of local irritation and dyspnoeal convulsions , and the predominance of paralytic symptoms , are points of difference .
The action upon the heart is entirely distinct , for the pulse is slowed by methylbenzaconine , the auricles eventually beating more rapidly than the ventricles , the action of the poison proceeds uniformly and without the intermissions which characterise aconitine , whilst the early phenomena of vagus stimulation have little in common .
The general symptoms of poisoning in frogs have scarcely a point of similarity ; quiescence , rapid failure of reflex and voluntary movement , without impairment of the cardiac action , are distinctive of methylbenzaconine , whilst excitement with great motility and greater persistence of voluntary movement follow aconitine .
Fibrillation is much more pronounced after the former , though it is only a transitory phenomenon .
The action of the two substances upon the heart differs widely in frogs as it does in mammals , whilst the curare-like action of the derivative on motor nerves is not produced by aconitine in doses which just suffice to arrest the heart .
It is true that large but sublethal doses of aconitine are followed by a condition ot almost complete paralysis which lasts for several days , but during this time there is slight voluntary and reflex movement , the nerve endings are not inactive , and the circulation is usually of the feeblest character ; all conditions which are not found in the period of quiescence following methylbenzaconirie .

