II .
" Observations on the Respiratory Movements of Insects .
" By the late WILLIAM FaMEDEICK BARLOW , F.R.C.S. Arranged and communicated by JAMn S PAGET , F.R.S. Received August 20 , 1854 .
This essay contains the greater part of a series of observations made between 1845 and 1850 .
The following are some of the conclusions which they plainly indicate:(1 .
) The respiratory movements of Dragon-flies ( Libellulm ) , and , probably , of other insects also , are naturally subject to considerable and frequent variations in force and rate , the causes of many of these variations being as yet unknown .
( 2 .
) The respirations of these insects are always quickened by exercise , emotion , rise of temperature , galvanism , and mechanical irritation ; and the last three agents quicken them in the decapitated , as well as in the perfect , insect .
( 3 .
) The respiratory movements of each segment of the trunk are , in some measure , independent of those of the rest , although in the perfect insect they concur in all the segments .
Tlhey continue to be performed , though feebly and slowly , in separated segments , provided their nervous cords and ganglia are entire : and they may be abolished in single and successive segments by the local action of chloroform .
( 4 .
) The removal of the head , including the supraand sub-oesophageal ganglia , does not , like the removal of the medulla oblongata of the vertebrate animal , put a stop to the respiratory movements of the insect ; but it diminishes their frequency and force , and deprives them of all influence of the will and of mental emotions , ( 5 .
) The shock inflicted by the sudden destruction of the head , or of the terminal part of the abdomen , generally stops all the respiratory movements of the insect for a time , and mulch enfeebles them during the remainder of its life .
( 6 .
) The general tendency of the observations is to corroborate the opinion of the self-sufficiency of the several ganglia for the movements of their appropriate segments , and , thus far , to maintain the belief in their essential independence .
At the same time , the obs servations on the diffused influence of shocks accord with those of the coordinate similar movements of all the segments , in proving their close mutual relations and mutual influence .

