476 Prof. D. Ferrier and Dr. W. A. Turner .
[ Dec. 14r III .
" A Record of Experiments illustrative of the Symptomatology and Degenerations following Lesions of the Cerebellum and its Peduncles and related Structures in Monkeys .
" By David Ferrier , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Neuropathology , and W. Aldren Turner , M.D. , Demonstrator of Neuropathology , King 's College , London .
Received November 30 , 1893 .
( From the Neuropathological Laboratory , King 's College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) This paper is the detailed record of the symptoms , temporary and permanent , following total and partial extirpation of the cerebellum , and section of its peduncles , and the degenerations so induced ; and includes the effects of destruction of the tubercles on the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata , and the degenerations resulting therefrom , together with some observations on the central relations of the 5th cranial nerve .
The paper is illustrated by photographs taken direct from the microscopical sections .
Special reference is made to the* similar researches of Luciani and Marchi .
The most noteworthy features of complete extirpation of the cerebellum were the extraordinary disturbances of station and locomotion , and the long-continued and apparently persistent unsteadiness of the trunk and limbs on muscular effort .
There were noted , also , from the first , absence of tonic flexion or contracture of the limbs ; retention of great and , apparently , unimpaired muscular strength , as evidenced by the firmness of the grasp of the bands and feet , and the agility in climbing ; and the presence , with ultimate exaggeration , of the knee-jerks .
There was no impairment of the general or special sensibility , or disturbance of the organic functions .
The symptoms observed after extirpation of a lateral lobe , after the first tumultuous disturbance of equilibrium had passed off , were similar to those observed after complete extirpation , with the important difference that they were confined to the limbs on the side of lesion .
Except in one case , where it was only present to a slight extent , there was no impulsive tendency to rotation .
Extirpation of the middle lobe , including antero-posterior division , produced , in general , the same symptoms as were observed in connexion with removal of the whole organ and of the lateral lobe , but they did not affect one side more than the other , and were more pronounced in the head and trunk than in the limbs .
The symptoms following section of the cerebellar peduncles were similar to those occurring after removal of the lateral lobe , the chief 1893 .
] On Lesions of the Cerebellum , \lt ; S-c .
, Monkeys .
47 difference being the greater tendency to roll round the longitudinal axis towards the side of lesion , whichever peduncle was cut .
Destruction of the clavate and cuneate nuclei caused temporary disturbances of attitude and gait , but there was no affection of cutaneous sensibility .
The degenerations following removal of the lateral lobe of the cerebellum , or section of the superior peduncle , showed that this , structure contains an efferent tract to the opposite red nucleus , and optic thalamus , and an afferent tract , which appears to be the cerebellar termination of the antero-lateral ascending tract of ' Gowers .
" Lateral lobe extirpation , or section of the middle peduncle , was followed by diminution of the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii on the side of the lesion , and atrophy of the cells of the nucleus pontis , on the opposite side .
Lateral lobe extirpation , or section of the inferior peduncle , , demonstrated the existence of an efferent tract to the opposite inferior-olivary body , and of an afferent tract to the cortex , chiefly of the lateral lobe .
Extirpation of the middle lobe occasioned no degeneration in the-superior , middle , or inferior cerebellar peduncles , but was followed by degeneration and sclerosis of the tract which passes from the vermiform process to Deiters* nucleus\#151 ; the " direct sensory cerebellar tract " of Edinger .
We were unable to confirm Marchi 's statements as to the existence-of a direct efferent cerebellar tract in the spinal cord , or of degeneration in the anterior nerve roots , mesial fillet , or posterior longitudinal bundles , after cerebellar extirpation .
In two cases of lateral lobe extirpation , however , we obtained degeneration in the anterior and lateral columns of the spinal cord respectively , in the position indicated by Marchi .
In the case , however , in which there was a marginal degeneration in the anterior column , the nucleus of Deiters , on the same side , was implicated ; while , in that in which degeneration in the lateral column was .
present , there was a lesion of the tegment of the pons , involving the nucleus of the lateral fillet .
The same degeneration was induced by lesions specially made in the lateral fillet .
Destruction of the clavate and cuneate nuclei was followed by degeneration , on the one hand , through the restiform body into the cerebellum ; and , on the other hand , through the internal and middle arcuate fibres to the opposite interolivary layer and mesial fillet .
This latter structure was traced to the anterior quadrigeminal bodies and optic thalamus .
Owing to lesion in some of the experiments of the roots of the 5 th cranial nerve , we were led to make special investigations on its cen478 Mr. J. B. Farmer .
On Relations of the [ Dec. 14 , tral connexions .
Degeneration and sclerosis of the so-called " ascending root " was traced as far as the 2nd cervical nerve , after section of the sensory division ; and atrophy of the so-called " descending root " was observed after section of the motor division .
We were unable to confirm the existence of a direct cerebellar root to this nerve .
IY .
" On the Relations of the Nucleus to Spore-formation in certain Liver-worts .
" By J. Bretland Farmer , M.A. , Royal College of Science , London .
Communicated by Professor Vines , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1893 .
It is well known that , as a general rule , during the formation of spore tetrads from their mother cells , the nucleus of the latter commonly undergoes two successive bipartitions .
Each of the resulting four nuclei ultimately becomes a centre for the aggregation of a portion of the original protoplasm , whilst division of the whole immediately follows by means of cell walls .
Though the above method is the one most commonly followed during the process of spore development , so far as the essential features are concerned , it is by no means the invariable one .
Probably , however , it is to be regarded as typical , and the deviations about to be described should be interpreted as modifications of it .
Anyone who is familiar with Hofmeister 's drawings , or who has ever seen spore production actually going on in the Hepatic\#174 ; , must have noticed that , in many species , the mother cell of the tetrad becomes four-lobed previously to its breaking up into its four spores .
This lobed appearance is seen whilst the original nucleus is still resting , and is due to a bulging out of the cell wall in four directions , accompanied by an ingrowth of cellulose into the lumen of the cell , and towards the nucleus .
If the process be followed in Aneura multijida , the intruding walls are seen to closely approach the nucleus while this body is still in the resting state .
The latter body then divides very rapidly , forming first ten , then twenty , chromosomes , which are arrayed along a very short spindle at the centre of the cell .
Then another spindle appears in a plane inclined to that of the first , and the number of the chromosomes is apparently about forty , though , by reason of their small size and the difference in their planes , it is difficult to be quite certain .
as to their number .
The nucleus here then goes through the ordinary form of karyokinesis , but in a somewhat compressed form .
The four groups of ten chromosomes then move off along the achromatic spindles to their respective lobes , and the further ingrowth of the cell walls to the centre , where they meet , cuts off the several proto-

