]\gt ; 1896 .
] A of detc , ) ?
Points .
ilow sct up below the surface .
With a solid that is or wet , the phenomena are quite different from the earliest mo nents of contact , and similar to those ) roduced b a liquid hough a few or arc touched on , the prefer to abstnin at present enerfl } ) tions , to put ) as a rec.ord of of fluid motion , at the puzzling ture of some of may evoke Ittention and interest among hose most upetent to explain them . .
' A New of Determining \ldquo ; By YElt , Ph. D. by LORD KELVIN , Janllary 13 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) subject of this paper is the best means of determining points as wcll as in solutions .
wo gF$ have to be consi d : the proper angement of in heterogeneous systcm , and the proper treatment of l. mcasuri11g ature .
A. of .\mdash ; I with the statement that ibrium 1veen t solid and liquid solveuts in the heteroatld i.s " " perfect\ldquo ; one , and this is facb that , at ] of temperof , oue of the ) parts of the hetel.ogeneous system ; above freezing tc , tbc solid , below it , liquid .
In out an expcriment bhe eneous system is simultaneously eoaled or warmed by the rangements of the ( air , \amp ; c and the vclocity vitb which the given liquid is cooled down musb also come into consideration .
This isolated ) OCCSS n be essed by NewboIl'S equation , , in which is scly P to quantity of ]iquid and to the capacity , and directly to the face of volume of the liquid , is the cuce tenlof tho id if icc be prescnt , and can be or belo .
If the ).encetcmperatul.e be , the liq tlid , at the freezing tlouIy the to a , and of ice takcs place .
lf below the , the liquid , at , continuously cooled a lower , and the of separation takcs place .
The velocity of ice ?
has beeu found to be 252 Dr. M. ildermann .
[ Feb. 6 , equation , in which is directly proportional to the surface of the separated ice , is the freezing temperature of the liquid , and is the temperature of the liquid at the time .
The velocity of ice ration has ) to be expressed by the equation , in wl1ich is the temperatnre of the given liquid , the temperature of the liquid at the time .
If the convergence temperature above the freezing temperature the general equation will therefore be : , process of ice melt .
arrang .
exper .
iquilibrium takes place when and , i.e. , the mercury thread comes to equilibrium , not at the real freezing erature , but at the temperature freezinq temperature ) , which is more or less different from ( Nernst ) , and oill be between and .
In order that may be as nearly equal to as possible , must be kept as small as possible , and for this ib is necessary for a successful freezing point determination that ( a ) be kept small ( the quantity of liquid used for the experiment must be as large as possible , an air babh preferred to a liquid bath ) , ( b ) be as great as poRsib ] ( the overcooling of the liquid before ice separation must be sufficiently great , the ice must be separated into fine ) eedles , and not allowed to form collglomerate masses ; subsidiary to this are good arrangemen , the proper choice of the beaker , \amp ; c or be kept very small , i.e. , the convergel ) must be as.near as possible the freezing ( the temperatures of the air bath and ice bath most suitable to the given temperi , ture of the room must be e , xperimentally found ) .
For point depressions we get , in which is the apparent freezing point depression as obtained from the apparent freezing points , and is the real freezing point depression as obtained from the real freezing points .
As dilute soIutions it has been found that can be put , we have .
In order that the apparcnt freezing point depression may be , as far as possible , equal to the real , , : must be kept as small as possible .
In dilute tions be neglected , being of importance ; but in concentrated solutions becomes of more importance .
So we get for the point method in dilute ions the rule : the same convertemperature of the room , the same regular stirring in all concentragence temperature , the same temperature of the ice batb , at the same 1896 .
] A new of determining Points .
253 tions , and in more concentr ted the rule : the bath must be arranged cooler , so that the convcrgence te1nperature of the solutions falls below the convergence temperature of water by amount of the point depression .
Careful measurements of have shown that in the method I use .
the apparent point caonot differ from the real even by to , as far as the equilibrium in the eneous system is concerned .
If the temperature be the temperature , we have , sep .
ice , ilibrium takes place when and t is , the of rest .
the thread is not at the at is more or ' from , and ill be .
In order that the rent real freezi points , as well as the apparent and real freezing point , may be as equal as possi , the same conditions rules of freezi method mnst be as in the case ) ture is above the entpel ttlre .
Careful ents of }lave shown ) the I use differ from even by to , and even by to hesc rules , we now explain { hco etically , ound at first , after a very detailed inves ation , by my late fi.iend , P. B. Lewis , and then by myself , and form bo a great extent subject of this paper .
Under those arrangements of the equilibrium we get the result tl the freezing temperature can be kept the narrow limit , of one , two , three ten-thousandths of a degree ( including other experimcntal errors ) ' a tiIne \mdash ; 20 minutes , and } ; as well when the convergence tempel.ature is above as when it is below the frcezing B. Proper reatmen t of the Tnstrnmenf used for tlIeasuring the used the and the tbcrmometels bimulta1leously .
On the hermometel the error is , cvell u. the most favourable conditions , one to two thousandths of a gree , ol less , seldom more .
this the limit to can get quantitatire results is , in the method use , with 1/ 100o thormomeler .
normal , in ttje c of nonelectrolytes .
The 1/ 1000o thermometer allows much more accurate l.eadings , gives us the possibility of investigating dilute solutions , but requires a great series of if a good result be obtained .
( 1 .
) mometer must always be kept at It is Presents .
[ Feb. 6 .
that the equilibrium be ined during a long time within very narrow limits of temperature , in hat the quicksilve.r of the thermometer an the glass of the bulb may completely atbaln tho temperature of the liquid ( for this the with which this takes place was measured ) , in order that the atmospheric pressure and the inner pressure of the mercury column may cxert their influence on the read freezing temperature .
It was found in the limits of 250 mm. that the increase of the outer pressure oainst the inner be mm. , a rising of the freezing point by ponds , and that the velocity with which the inner and outer pressnres completely exert their is about two minutes in duration .
( 3 .
) Grcat precautions must be taken to brin the mercury thread to its maximum , and this must be controlled .
( 4 ) Care must be for " " dead\ldquo ; points , that no vacnum is in the mercury ] ) ulbs , and for this a kind of tapping of the thermcmeter cork must be used , mercury must not be allowed to rise , a series of experiments is being out , into the upper , \amp ; c. Presents , February 6 , 1896 .
Tran } ions .
Batavia : ninkl .
tuurkun dreen Nede rJandschIndie .
ndig Tijdschrift .
Deel LIII .
1893 .
The Society .
Berlin : haft fiir Hirdkunde , Verhandlungen .
Bd .
XXII .
No. 10 . .
Berlin 1895 .
The Society .
Bhavnagar : Depfirtmcnb .
A ColIection of Prakrit and Sanskrit H. H. The Mabaraja of Boston Society of .
Memoirs .
Vol. Nos. 1\mdash ; 2 . .
Bosfon 1895 ; Proceedings .
Vol. XXVI .
Part 4 .
8 .
Boston 1895 .
The :\mdash ; Field Columbian Museum .
Publicafions .
Nos. 2 .
The Cracow : demi des Sciences .
] etin International .
Decembre , 1895 . .
The demi .
Halifax , N.S. :\mdash ; Nova Scotian Institute of ience .
Proceedings and Transactions .
Vol. [ .
Part 4 .
1895 .
The Institute .
Liverpool:\mdash ; Geological Society .
Proceedings .
pool 1895 .
The Society .
London:\mdash ; British Association .
Jotlrnal .
Vol. Vl .
No. 3 . .
London 1896 .
The Association .

