162 Mr. F , F. Blackman .
Experimental Researches [ Dec. 6 , December 6 , 1894 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Sir John Kirk .
Professor J. B. Sanderson .
Professor T. E. Thorpe .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Experimental Researches on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration.\#151 ; No. I. On a New Method for Investigating the Carbonic Acid Exchanges of Plants .
" By F. F. Blackman , B.Sc. , B.A. , St. John 's College , Demonstrator of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Francis Darwin , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) All the processes hitherto available for the estimation of carbon dioxide in its biological relations are open to serious objections , either on the score of the amount of time involved in their performance , or of their inadaptability to the estimation of small quantities of carbon dioxide when slowly evolved .
The present communication describes an apparatus in which , as a result of two years ' work , I have succeeded in combining a high degree of chemical accuracy with special adaptability to biological research .
Thus by its aid the evolution of C02 , by a single germinating seed or by a small area of a foliage leaf , can be accurately estimated from hour to hour without a break , for any desired time , while for the same area of leaf , the more active absorption of C02 in assimilation can be easily determined for such short periods of time as fifteen minutes , and that at the same time separately for the two surfaces of one and the same leaf area .
Further , for the purposes of this assimilation , a current of air containing any desired proportion of C02 , however small , can be supplied continuously to the tissue under investigation , on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
11894 .
] , while , if desired , estimations of the C02 evolved in respiration by , some other part can be carried on simultaneously in a separate cur-f rent of air freed from C02 .
This is made possible by the apparatus f being practically in duplicate ; strictly comparative experiments can | thus be carried out .
| The actual estimation of the C02 is accomplished by the well-| known method of absorption by baryta solution and titration with I hydrochloric acid .
The novelty consists in this , that only a very | small quantity of baryta solution ( under 15 c.c. ) is employed in each i experiment , and that after the absorption the whole of this is titrated I with acid in the tube in which the absorption has taken place .
Further , the burettes containing the standard solutions are always in air-tight connection with this absorption chamber , and no air beyond the current under investigation is ever admitted to the chamber , except such as has been carefully freed from C02 .
The special arrangements for stirring and emptying , by means of this air , freed from C02 , and stored under pressure , cannot be entered into here .
The two currents of air passing continuously through the apparatus are generated by two aspirators of a special type , which , worked on the principle of Mariotte 's bottle , give a practically constant outflow in drops , whatever the level of the water within them , and are adapted to work steadily with small rates of flow ( 50 to 100 c.c. per hour ) .
These currents enter the apparatus , either through an arrangement for removing the C02 when working on respiratiop , or when working on assimilation through one for adding C02 .
Both these are so constructed that the current never has to bubble through a layer of liquid , and so is supplied to the plant at strictly atmospheric pressure , thus avoiding any risk of drawing gases mechanically out of the part under investigation .
The remover of COj is a " tower " full of beads , over which a stream of strong potash 'ws continuously , and through which the air is drawn .
The C02 generator is constructed on a new principle , and consists of a tall e containing fragments of marble , through which the air current Passes at a constant rate , while very dilute HC1 trickles down it at an extremely slow rate , which is made constant and independent of , \#166 ; variations of temperature by special arrangements .
Thus a ^M ant amount of C02 is being continually generated , and is carried ^ ^ a^r current .
The amount of C02 formed can be controlled helow^8 ren^k ^*6 acid employed .
When generating amounts ''n8tr tl^6r 'en^ air current , this arrangement works very ^ y* I'rom the C02 generator or remover , as the case may be , Plaut'lrr^n^ ^ a*J Passes f ' the receivers , in which the parts of the form Gr 1Ilvesf}isation are situated .
These receivers are of various structed '0\#153 ; ln^ material experimented on , but are all con'a the cardinal principle of making them as small as n 2 164 Mr. F. F. Blackman .
Experimental Researches [ Dec. 6 , possible consistent with the well-being of the part , in order that changes in the composition of the gas shall , as soon as possibly h\#174 ; felt by the current which passes thence through narrow tubes to the absorption chambers .
" When titrations are being made , and the air cur-rent can no longer be allowed to pass throngh the absorption chatQberg( it passes through a column of water equal in its resistance to that of the baryta solution in the absorption chamber .
This enables the rate of flow to be kept constant between , as well as during , the actual experiments .
Numerous other details , such as the special method of j refilling the burettes , \amp ; c. , and above all those small points by which constancy is , as far as possible , attained , many of which have involved weeks of special experiment , cannot be described here .
Simplification of technique by complication of apparatus has been the guiding principle , and the result is that , although the whole consists of at least eight separate pieces of apparatus , many being further in duplicate , and all connected together by a plexus of tubes , yet the working is so automatically arranged that the operator , beyond reading the burettes and occasionally working a finger bellows , has nothing to do but turn stopcocks .
If only one series of estimations is being made , these can be kept absolutely consecutive , the current being led through one of the absorption chambers , while the solution in the other one is being titrated and renewed , and so on alternately .
When two series of comparative estimations are being made at once , a small interval must be allowed after each double estimation , during which the titrations are performed ; the currents of air in connection with the plants then pass through bye-paths , still at their previous rate .
This interval ( in which a double titration , emptying and refilling of the absorption chambers , is accomplished ) can be reduced to ten minutes , Delicacy of estimation sufficient for present work is obtained by the use of half-decinormal , N/ 20 , standard solutions .
Phenolphtha-lein is used as indicator , and specially delicate end-reactions can be obtained , since atmospheric CO2 is excluded , and moreover the burettes containing both the solutions can be drawn upon .
The burettes , narrow and graduated in 1/ 10 c.c. , are read to 1/ 100 c.c. , with a simple arrangement for avoiding parallax .
All other usual precautions are taken , and series of control titrations , with an error of observation of not more than 0T per cent. , are often obtained .
This corresponds to 1/ 200 c.c. CO2 .
In experiments of short duration , 1/ 50 c.c. CO2 is found to be suffi* cient for a trustworthy estimation from which definite conclusions msf be drawn .
The communication immediately following the present one , ill\#174 ; 8 ' trates the applicability of this apparatus to the investigation of naina^ quantities of carbon dioxide .

