XX .
" O na New Class of Compounds in which Nitrogen is substituted for Hydrogen .
" By PETER GRIEss , Esq. Communuricated by )r .
HOFMANN .
Received June 2 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) All the bodies in which nitrogen is substituted for hydrogen which I have discovered during the last few years* may be divided into two distinctly different classes .
The first class conmprises those bodies which are obtained when three atoms of hydrogen in two atoms of an amido-compound are replaced by one of nitrogen from nitrous acid .
The members of the second group are formed by the action of nitrous acid upon one equivalent of an amido-compounid only .
The following equations will best show these various reactions : I. 2 ( 07 H7 NO ) + NH02=-C14 115 N3 04+21H10 Amidobenzoic Nitrous Diazoai-iidoacid .
acid .
benzoic acid .
II .
c6 Ha N30 , + NIIO02 = 112 N , 0 ?
+ 2-112 0 .
Picramic acid Diazo-dinitro(amidonitrophenylic phenylic acid .
acid ) .
I have hitherto chiefly examined iinto the constitution of the bodies that form according to the first equation ( diazoamidobenzol , diazoamidobenzoic acid ) , and have only incidentally explored the field of bodies which equation II .
opens up .
I have had occasion since to study more closely several representatives of the latter class of compounds , which are derived from aniline ( amidobenzol ) and alnalogous organic bases ; and since the restults which I obtained cainnot but excite some interest , I may be permitted to submit them briefly to the Royal Society .
Nitrate of Diazobenzol , C6 114 N , , N10 , .
This compound is most readily obtainied by passing a rapid current of nitrous acid gas through a solution of nitrate of an-iline , saturated in the cold , unitil anilinie ceases to be separated by the addition of solution of caustic potash to the liquid .
On diluting the solution then with three times its volume of alcohol , and adding a sufficient quantity of ether , nitrate of diazobenizol separates in long white needles .
In order to remove a trace of a colouring substance , the crystals are redissolved in a small quiantity of cold dilute alcohol and precipitated by ether .
The following equation expresses the reaction:(5 1-1 N , N1103 + NH02 , = '6 H4 N2 , NH103 + 2112 O ' Nitrate of aniline .
Nitrous Nitrate of diazoacid .
benzol .
Nitrate of diazobenzol may also be prepared from diazoamidobenzol , a substance described by me on a former occasion* , by treating an ethereal solution of the latter with nitrous acid , -e-12 Hll N3+ NH02 +2N H03 =2 ( .G-6 H4 N2 -NH03 ) +2H2 O. DiazoamidoNitrate of diazobenzol .
benzol .
The new compoulnd dissolves very readily in water , more difficultly in alcohol , and is almost insoluble in ether .
On heating , the solutions are decomposed with evolution of gas .
The dry substance explodes with the greatest violence when gently heated , and it is necessary to observe great precautions whilst working with it .
The chemical analysis could not , for the same reason , be performed by the usual methods .
Its composition was , however , readily established by studying the products of decomposition to which boiling with water gives rise , according to the equation 011H4 N2 , N1103 + 121O=C6HW,30 + N2 + NHOQ Nitrate of diazoPhenylic NitroNitric benzol .
acid .
gen .
aci(l .
S &amp; dplate of Diazobenzol , Cd , H1 N 81H2 04 , This salt forms when a highly conicenltrated aqueous solution of the former compound is treated with a sufficient quantity of cold sulphuric acid diluted with its own bulk of water .
The solution is treated , as before , with three times its volume of alcohol , and ether added , which causes the sulphate of diazobenzol to separate in a layer of a very concentrated aqueous solution at the bottom of the vessel .
On placing this latter solution over sulphuric acid , crystallization ensues after a short time .
The crystals are freed from the mother-liquor by washing with absolute alcohol .
In this manner large white prisms , which rapidly deliquesce in moist air , are obtained , and which are decomposed with slight deflagration when heated by themselves .
HIydrobrogmate of Diazo6enzol , C6 114 , N , HBr .
This comnpound is obtained in small white soft plates when an ethereal solution of diazoamidobenzol is mixed with any ethereal solution of bromine , ~C , , 11N , +6Br=C , 11 , N2 , IlBr + C6 H Br3 N+2 ( HBr ) .
~~~-~ --D DiazoamidoHydrobromate of Tribromaniline .
benzol .
diazobenzol .
Hydrobromate of diazobenzol is very unstable .
The beautifully white crystals change so rapidly that in a few moments they acquire a reddish colour , and in a few days the decomposition is almost complete .
They explode on heating almost with the same violence as was experienced with nitrate of diazobenzol .
Di6romide of Hydrobromate of Diazobenzol , X,1 H4 N2 , HBr , Br2 .
On adding excess of bromine-water to an aqueous solution of ainy one of the compounds previously described , an oranoge-coloured oil is obtained which rapily solidifies , after the mother-liquor has been removed , to small orangecoloured plates .
The crystals of dibromide are obtained in a perfectly pure state by washing with a little alcohol .
This compounid is rather difficultly soluble in cold alcohol and ether ; and the solutions are rapidly decomposed , particularly on the application of heat .
Platinum-salt of the Hydrochlorate of Diazobenzot , C , 114 N2 , HCI , PtCl2 .
This salt forms beautiful yellow prisms which are almost insoluble in water .
The gold-salt , G6 14 N2 , HCI , AuCl , , can be recrystallized from alcohol , and is obtained in very fine golden-yellow brilliant plates .
It has thus beein sufficiently shown that diazobenzol deports itself like an organic base , being capable , like aniline , of forming salts with various acids .
It possesses , however , also the property of combining with the hydrates of the metals , thus playing the part of a weak acid .
Compound of Hydrate of Potassium with Diazobenzol , 11 N2 , Kil .
This body is obtained when a concentrated aqueous solution of nitrate of diazobenzol is treated with excess of concentrated aqueous potassa .
By evaporating on the water-bath , the liquid solidifies , when sufficiently concentrated , to a magma of yellow crystals consisting of nitre and the compound of hydrate of potassa with diazobenzol .
The crystalline mass is pressed between porous stones , and thus partly freed from moisture .
By dissolving in absolute alcohol and treating with ether , the new comnpound of hydrate of potassium with diazobenzol is -obtained in a pure state , crystallizing in small soft white plates , which rapidly become reddish , especially in the moist condition .
It is very readily soluble in water and alcohol ; the solutions , however , decompose slowly , and deposit a reddish amorphous body .
Heat does not seem to accelerate this decomposition materially .
Compound of Hydrate of Silver with Diazobenzol , C6 H4 N2 , AgHil .
This substance is obtained in the form of an almost white precipitate when a solution of silver is added to an aqueous solution of the former compound .
It is very stable .
Similar compounds are obtained with leadand zinc-salts .
Diazobenzo , C'6 114 N2 .
This substarnce is obtained when an aqueous solution of the compound of hydrate of potassium with diazobenzol is nleutralized with acetic acid .
It separates as a thick yellow oil of very little stability .
After a few moments an evolution of gas ensuies , and the diazobeizol is rapidly converted into a reddish-brown viscid mass .
Diazobenzol is soluble in acids , as well as bases , with formation of the salinie compounds previously described .
By acting in the cold with aniline upon nitrate of diazobenzol* , the following change takes place : C 114 N2 NHO03+ 2C6 1T7 N-C12 Hl1 N3 + -G117 N , N , 103 .
Nitrate of diazoAniiline .
DiazoamidoNitrate of aniline .
benzol .
beizol .
I was formerly of opinion that diazoanmidobenzol must be viewed as a double compouind of diazobenzol and aniline .
The above equation seems to confirm this view .
New compounds analogous to diazobenizol-am-idobenzol are obtained by the action of other organiic bases upon nitrate of diazobeuizol , viz. diazoco 11 4N 2 benzol-amnidobromobenzol cH ( 1 ) N by the action of bromaniline .
Naphthalidine and nitrate of diazobeDzol combine directly and form nitrate of diazobenzol-amidonaphtol , crystallizing in magnificent lar ge green prisms .
The action of amido-acids upon nitrate of diazobenzol is analogous to that of the aniline ; ex. gr. , 0 1-14N2 N2 3H 2C7 N7 2 { CNo2N .
} + ?
717 NO 2 NHO 3 Nitrate of diazoAmido-acid .
DiazobenzolNitrate of amidobenzol .
amnidobenzoic acid .
benzoic acid .
Diazobenzol-amidobenzoic acid separated quickly as a yellow crystalline mass on mixing the aqueous solutions of both stubstances .
It is purified by recrystallizationl from ether ill the form of small yellow plates .
It combines with bases and forms salinie bodies .
Bichloride of platinum precipitates from an alcoholic solutionl a yellowish-white crystalline platinum-salt of the composition 06 13 11 0,20 2-HC , 2 PtCli .
Similar double acids to the one jtust described are obtained by the action of amidodracylic acid , amidoanic acid , &amp;c. , upon nitrate of diazobenzol .
Lnidoyen Compounds of Diaczobenzol .
These peculiar compounds are formed when aqueous ammonia , as well as certain organic bases , are made to act upon the dibromide of diazobeilzol .
DiWobenzolimide , QC Eo NI } N , is obtained according to the equation 6 I4N2IBr3+4NH311 I-I ; , N2+3N1 Br .
Dibromide .
Ammonia .
DiazobenBromide of zolimide .
ammiionium .
It forms a yellowish oil , which must be distilled in vacuo with the aid of a current of steam .
-Exposed by itself to a higher temperature , it decomposes with detonationi .
It is remarkable for its stupefying ammoniacalaromatic odour .
Ethyldicizobenzolimidle , 06 E4 N2 } N , is analogous in its properties , and is formed in a similar maanner .
Products of Decomposition of Diazobenzol Compounds .
The transformations which the molecule of diazobenzol undergoes under the inifluence of various reagents are numerous .
The products often represenit some peculiar classes of entirely new comipounids ; more frequently , however , they belong to the phenyland benzol-group .
I will describe a few of them somewhat more fully .
It has already been mentioned that , on boiling with water , nitrate of diazobenzol is broken up into nitrogen , phenylic acid , and nitric acid .
Ilydrobromate of diazobenizol undergoes any analogous decomposition , viz. , 016 H4 N2lBr + H20=N2 ?
+C6 HI , 6+HBr .
Treated with alcohol , nitrate of diazobenzol is decomposed in the following manner:2(C6H4 N2 , N1103 ) + C2 H60 C61-I6 +C6 14(N02)20 ?
+2140 + N4 1+H20 .
Nitrate of diazoAlcohol .
Benzol .
Dinitrophenylic Aldehyde .
benzol .
acid .
On dissolving sulphate of diazobenzol in a small quantity of concentrated sulphuric acid , it gives rise to the formation of a new sulpho-acid which I propose to call disulphophenylenic acid , 06114 N2 8112 04+ 11(4 = -C6 14 , S2 H408 + N2 .
Sulphate of diazoDisulphophenylic benzol .
acid .
The excess of sulphuric acid may be removed from the new acid by means of carbonate of barium .
The nlew barium-salt crystallizes in beautiful prismns .
Its composition must be expressed by the formula 061H4 82i112Ba2 G6 .
The free acid obtained by the addition of sulphuric acid to the barium-salt is deposited in warty masses of radiating crystals which deliquesce in the air .
Disulphophenylenic acid is four-basic , and is capable of forming four series of salts .
The silver-salt forms , however , an exception , its composition being expressed by the formula C6 H , 8 , Ag2 07 .
Disulphophenylenic acid , like phosphoric acid , appears to be capable of existing in different modificationis , possessing different powers of basicity .
Diazobenzolimide in alcoholic solutions is decomposed by nascent hydrogen , generated with zinc and sulphuric acid in the following manner : 0 1H5 N3+ ?
811C6 H7 N+2NH .
DiazobenAniline .
zolimide .
On adding to an aqueouis solution of nitrate of diazobenzol levigated carbonate of barium , a feeble evolution of gas enisues , which lasts for several days , until the original compound has been completely decomposed .
Two new substances are formed , which are very differently soluble in alcohol , and can thuis readily be separated .
The easily soluble compound , which I will call phenyldiazobeiizol , crystallizes from alcohol in yellowish warty masses ; from water ( in which it dissolves very difficultly ) in small rhombic prisms .
The difficultly soluble one , which I propose to call phenyldidiazobenzol , crystallizes in reddish-yellow needles .
The following equation expresses the formation of these two bodies : I. 2(06 14 N2 , [ 03 ) + T12 0= C12 10 2 02+N2-i 2N113 .
Nitrate of diazobenzol .
Phenoldiazobenzol .
II .
3(C6 H ?
N2 , Ng H)+N 2O=18 I , N40+N2+ 3N1130 .
Pheinoldidiazobenzol .
On looking at these formulm , it beco-mes evident at a glance that both compounds contain phenylic acid and diazobenzol ; viz. 06 H4 N2 +C6 H6 )=C12110 N2 ?
Diazobenzol .
Phenol .
Phenoldiazobenzol .
2(06 114 N2)+0Al6 116=.Q C18 H N40 Diazobenzol .
Phenol .
Phenoldiazobenzol .
Both compounds are weak acids ; the first being capable of forming a well-characterized silver-salt , which is obtained in the form of a. blood-red precipitate when an ammoniacal solution of phenoldiazobenizol is treated with nitrate of silver .
On heating the platitnum-salt of diazobenzol mixed with carbonate of sodium in a retort , chlorobenzol is obtained , the formation of which may be expressed as follows 6 H4 N2 , 111 PtCl2=06 Ha C+N2 + PtC12 , Platinum-salt .
Chlorobenzol .
A sinmilar decomposition ensues when the dibromnide is heated with carbonate of sodium , C6 14N , 2lJBr 3= 11,6 211 Br + N2 + Br2 .
Dibromide .
Bromobenzol .
The same change may also be effected by simply boiling an alcoholic solution of the dibromide .
The peculiar and often remarkable properties of the diazobenzole-compounds have iniduced me to try whether analogous bodies could not be prcpared also from bromaniline , nitraniline , dibromaniline , &amp;c. Experiment has fully borne out theory .
These analogous diazo-substitutions exhibit , however , so much resemblance to the liormal diazobenzol compounds , that I should frequently have to repeat almost literally what has already been said of the latter , were I to describe these comnpounlds in detail .
I may be permitted , however , to mention a remarkable and interesting fact which their investigation prominently brouight out .
There are , as is well known , two isomeric nitranilines the alphanitraniline of Arppe , and the betanitraniline of Hofmann and MuLspratt .
This isomerism , I found , extends itself to their respective nitrogeni-substitution compounds , and even to their products of decomposition .
On heating , ex. yr .
, the dibromide of alphadiazonitrobenzol with alcohol , the following change takes place : 6 113 ( NO2 ) N2 HlBr3=C-1 H4 ( NO92 ) Br+ N2+Br2 .
&amp; -dibromide .
Bromonitrobenzol .
The bromonitrobenzol thus obtainied is identical with that prepared by Cooper from benzol derived from coal-tar .
It crystallizes in the same form , and fuses , like the latter , at 1260 C. ; sulphide of ammonium converts it irnto bromaniline , which crystallizes in octahedra , and is identical with the bromaniline of Tlofinann obtained from bromisatine .
Bromonitrobenzol , prepared in a perfectly similar manner by the decomposition of the dibroruide of betadiazonitrobenzol , possesses , however , widely different properties .
The a-bromonitrobenzol just described crystallizes in long needles , whilst the niew benzol-derivative , which I will designate by the name of / 3-bromonitrobenzol , forms well-developed prisms , the fusing-point of which lies at 5 60 C. Sulphide of ammonium converts it likewise into bromaniiline ; but this base differs in its physical properties entirely from the bromaniline obtained by Hofmann .
It forms a colourless oil , which combines with acids , and gives rise to a series of beautiful salts , which in their turn differ greatly from the ordinary bromaniline salts in their physical properties .
I will distinguish this bromaniline by calling it 3-bromaniline from that obtained by Hofmann , which I will call x-bromaniline .
It deserves to be mentioned briefly that there exist likewise two isomeric chloronitrobenzols ( alpha and beta ) obtained by heatirig the platinum-salts of the respective diazonitrobenzole with carbonate of sodium , 6 H3 ( NO2 ) N2 , HCI , PtCl2=C6 H4 ( NO2 ) C1+N2 + PtCI2 .
, Platinum-salt .
M , , Chloronitrobenzol .
Alpha-nitrochlorobenzol furnishes , when reduced by means of suiphide of ammoilium , the ordinary ( alpha- ) chloraniline ; beta-clloronitrobenzol yielding a new base of like compositioli ( beta-chloranilinie ) , distinguished from the former by its oily nature .
Corresponding diazo-compounds caul readily be prepared from the homologues of aniline and other analogous bases by submitting them to a treatment exactly similar to that which in case of aniline yielded diazobenzol .
Thus I have obtained the diazo-compounds from toluidine , naphthalidine , and nitranisidine , C7 7 ( NO2 ) 0 .
I have abstained from entering more fully into a description of their physical and chemical habitus , as well as the respective products of decomposition to which they give rise , since they offer nothing characteristically new * .
All compounlds already described have been derivations from monoatomic amido-bases.1 I have on a former occasiont had an opportunity of pointing out that the action of nitrous acid upon diatomic bases , such as nitrate of benzidine , is perfectly analogous to that which gives rise to the formation of nitrate of diazobenzol from nitrate of aniline .
Whilst , however , in the last-mentioned reaction only'one atom of nitrous acid exchanges its nitrogen for three atoms of hydrogeln of the original compound , six atoms of hydrogen are exchanged for two atoms of nitrogen when nitrous acid reacts upon nitrate of benzidine .
Respecting these compounids I shall only briefly describe a few general properties and a few products of decomposition .
Sul1phate of Tetrazodiphenyl , 2012,6 N4 , 381H2 04 , crystallizes in white or slightly yellowish-coloured needles , which are very soluble in water , and almost insoluble in strong alcohol and ether .
On boiling the alcoholic solution , the following decomposition takes place : 2012 H6N4 , 38 112 4+4 " 120=-2C12 H1002+ N8 +38112 04* ____ , J_ , J Sulphate of tetrazodiDiphenylenic acid phenyl .
( diphenylene-alcohol ) .
I have already had occasioni to describe diphenylenic acid ( diphenylenealcohol ) obtained by decomposition , analogous to that of nitrate of tetrazodiphenyl with water , and I have therefore only to refer to what has been stated on that occasion .
The decomposition which tetrazodiphenyl undergoes on boiling with alcohol differs from the previous one , and takes place according to the equation 2C12 H6N , 3S 1 24 4t+4 021 2 H12 1 +-4C2 H40.+ 3 ?
H2 0+8N .
______ k- ) &lt; -J KJ J9 Sulphate of tetrazodiphenyl .
Alcohol .
Diplhenyl .
Aldelhyde .
The diphenyl which results from this reaction is idenitical withi the compouinds obtained by Fittig from bromobenzol .
A comparative examination of the two demionstrates this most u mistakeably .
The transformation which sulphate of tetrazodiplhenyl undergoes when it is heated with a small quantity of strong sulphuric acid is likewise of great interest .
Two new sulpho-acids are formed , which I shall call tetraand tri-sulphodiphen-yleniic acid .
The following equation explains their formatioiin the most natural manler I1 -11 N4e 43 42 04 C12 Tb S ' 1 18 03+ N , TetrazodiTetrasulphodiphephenyl .
iiylenic acid .
12 11 N+ 3S112 04 C12 J3 83 ? ?
2+4 Trisulphodiphenylic acid .
The separation of these two acids is based upon the uniequal solubility of their bariun-salts .
The process is , however , somewhat complicated , and I therefore abstaini from describing it .
Both acids are capable of combining with bases in various proportions .
Tetrasulphodiphenylenic acid is octobasic .
The lead-salt crystallizes in beautiful needles , and has the composition 0112 3 , S Pb3 0,1 .
Trisulphodiplhenylenic acid , appears to be hexabasic .
I have as yet only prepared the former acid in a free state .
It crystallizes in white nieedles , which are readily soluble in water and alcohol .
Tetrabromide of the Tetrazodipkenyl , 12H,11 N4 , 2HBr , Br , .
This compound forms crystals of an orange colour with curved faces .
OnX heating with alcohol , it splits up according to the equation 012 16 N4 213Br , =%,2 H1 Br2 +N4 + Br4 .
Tetrabromide .
Bromnodiphenyl .
Bromodiphenrl crystallizes from alcohol and ether ( in which it is rather difficultly soluble ) in beautiful prisms which fuse at 1640 C. This substance can be distilled without tndergoing decomposition .
Bromodipheniyl has also been obtained by Fittig ( according to a private communication ) by the action of bromine upoln diphenyl .
The platinum-salt of tetrazodipheniyl , Cl H11 N4 , H2 C12 ( PtCl2)A , forms small yellow plates , which fuirnish , when heated with carboniate of sodium , chlorodiphenyl closely resem bling the analogous brominie-compound .
Tetrazodienlenyl-amidobenzol , CG I1H N jG 0 11N j This complex body is formed when an aqueous solution of nitrate of tetrazodiphenyl is mixed with aniline .
It is deposited in a yellow crystal line mass , which can be recrystallized from alcohol or ether ( in which it is but slightly soluble ) , and is obtained in lancet-like plates .
When heated in a dry state , it is decomposec with slight explosion .
Its formation is expressed by the equation 1C2 HI No , 2N110+ ?
4CI07N= C2,1 120 N6 + 2(C 17 N , N103 .
Nitrate of tetrazodiAniline .
New compound .
Nitrate of aniline .
phenyl .
Tel razodiphenylimide , 012 " IJN } N2 .
This body is obtained in the form of slightly yellowish-tinged lustrous plates , which are very difficultly soluble in cold , readily , however , in hot alcohol and in ether .
It combines neither with acids nor with bases .
Heated by itself it explodes .
The following equation explains its formation : C12 611 N2 2Br +8 N11 2H8N 6 -6NH , Br .
Tetrabromide .
Tetrazodiphenylimide .
I have not succeeded in preparing tetrazodiphenyl in a free state , nor have I been able to obtaini compoutlds of tetrazodiphellyl with bases in anything like a well-characterized condition .
I pass over the abortive experiments made by nie in this direction .
Many of the experiments just described have been carried on in the laboratory of the Royal College of Chemistry , London , others in that of the University of Marburg ; and I take this opportuinity of returning my thanks to Prof. Hofmann of London , and Prof. Kolbe of Marburg , for allowing me the use of these institutions .

