40 Mr. J. Priestley on the [ Nov. 18 , the North Pacific , at depths of from 2000 to 3000 fathoms , although not very abundant in species , is by no means meagre .
In each of six dredgings and trawlings at depths greater than 2000 fathoms we found , along with a few Pishes , a fair representation of all the larger invertebrate groups ; and in one dredging , No. 253 , at a depth of 3125 fathoms , we took a small Sponge , a species of Cornu an , an Annelid in a tube , and a Bryozoon .
We were again struck with the wonderful uniformity of the fauna at these depths ; if not exactly the same species , very similar representatives of the same genera occur in all parts of the world .
I am glad to be able to report that every thing is going on in a satisfactory way in the departments under my charge .
I have the honour to be , Sir , Your obedient Servant , 0 .
Wvville Thomson , Director of Civilian Scientific Captain Evans , C.B. , F.R.S. , Staff on board H.M.S. ' Hydrographer , Admiralty .
II .
" On the Physiological Action of Vanadium .
" By John Priestley , Platt Physiological Scholar , the Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Prof. Gamgee , F.B.S. Received June 18 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The author has divided his paper into four sections .
In the first the subject is introduced by a brief statement of the relationships of vanadium to other elements of the same and of allied groups ; and the main object of the research is set forth , viz. by an extended investigation to endeavour to fix the physiological relationships of vanadium to the closely allied elements arsenic and phosphorus , so as to throw some light on the relations which probably exist between the chemical and physiological properties of the elements .
The tribasic sodium vanadate ( Na3V04 ) is stated to have been the compound of vanadium made use of throughout the research , and the reasons of the preference are given .
In the second section the action of solutions of sodium vanadate upon simple organisms is shortly illustrated by the details of four sets of experiments , from which the conclusion is drawn that all solutions , except those which are extremely dilute ( i. e. which contain only so much salt as corresponds to .01-*5 per cent , of V2 05 ) , act injuriously upon the simpler organisms .
In the third section the effects of vanadium in the above combination on complex organisms are discussed under two heads , viz.:\#151 ; A. The general action on the animal system when introduced by 11875 .
] Physiological Action of .
41 subcutaneous injection , by injection into veins , or by injection into the alimentary canal .
B. the special action on the various functions of the animal body .
Under A thirty-one experiments are detailed , in which frogs , a pigeon , [ guineapigs , rabbits , dogs , and cats were made use of .
From these experiments it is gathered :\#151 ; ( 1 ) That vanadium is a poisonous substance .
( 2 ) That the symptoms of poisoning are , in general , similar whatever the method of the introduction of the salt into the animal system .
( 3 ) That the symptoms of poisoning which appeared in one or other of the various classes of animals above mentioned are:\#151 ; paralysis of motion ; convulsions , local or general ; rapidly supervening drowsiness , or indifference to external circumstances ; congestion of alimentary mucous membranes ; discharge of sanguinolent fluid faeces ; presence of glairy , fluid mucus in the intestines after death ; certain changes in respiration and , coincidently , a fall in temperature ; drowisness and feebleness of pulse .
In addition , the heart was always irritable after death , consciousness and sensibility to pain seemed unimpaired , and no diminution could be detected in the powers of muscle and nerve to respond to stimulation .
( 4 ) That the lethal dose for rabbits lies between 9*18 mgr .
and 14*66 mgr .
of Ya 05 per kilog .
of rabbit .
Under B the author details a number of experiments undertaken with the view to gain more exact information as to the action of the salt of vanadium upon particular functions .
The methods of experiment and the precautions observed are fully described ; and the action on the following functions is discussed , viz.:\#151 ; ( i ) On the function of muscular tissue ( after direct local application of the salt ) ; and ( ii ) On the function of nervous tissue ( after direct local application of the salt ) .
Five series of experiments are recorded , from which it appears that , under the conditions of the experiments , functional death of muscular and nervous tissue speedily follows even when the solutions used contain no more salt than corresponds to *05 per cent , of V2 06 .
( iii ) On the function of circulation .
Twelve experiments are re- .
corded in which either subcutaneous or venous injection was employed , the experiments being performed on\#151 ; ( ?
) Normal rabbits , ( ?
) Babbits with divided vagi , ( c ) Babbits with divided cords , ( d ) A frog with heart exposed and the nervous structures in front of the atlanto-occipital articulation destroyed .
42 Rev. S. Haughton on the Law of Fatigue .
[ Nov. 18,1 From these it is gathered that sodium vanadate causes\#151 ; ( 1 ) A diminution of blood-pressure which is not continuous , 1 but intermits during the operation of the poison ; ( 2 ) A disappearance of respiration-curves ; ( 3 ) A diminution and irregularity of pulse , which is also intermittent .
The results are discussed and considered to be due to an action of the poison on the vaso-motor centre and on the intracardiac | nervous mechanism .
( iv ) On the function of respiration .
Subcutaneous or venous injection was again employed in the cases of seven rabbits , normal or with divided vagi .
The results show that sodium vanadate causes\#151 ; ( 1 ) A stimulation , followed by ( 2 ) A depression , of respiration , the latter being not continuous but intermittent ; they are discussed and considered to be due to an action of the poison upon the respiratory nervous centre .
( v ) On the functions of muscle and nerve .
Subcutaneous injection was employed in the nineteen experiments described , which were performed on frogs , guineapigs , and rabbits .
Tables are inserted illustrating diagrammatically the action of the salt .
The results of these experiments are found to be the same as those given under A , where the general symptoms of poisoning by sodium vanadate are enumerated ; and it is concluded , from the facts here stated , that the cause of the nervous symptoms is an action of the vanadate upon the central system of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata , and not upon nerve-trunks of peripheral terminations or upon muscle .
In the fourth section the chief results of the research are gathered up and briefly enumerated .
III .
" On some Elementary Principles in Animal Mechanics .
No. VII .
The Law of Fatigue .
" By the Rev. Samuel Haughton , M.D. ( Dubl .
) , D.C.L. ( Oxon .
) , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Dublin .
Received June 21 , 1875 .
The approximate law of muscular action , which I have called the law of fatigue , is thus expressed:\#151 ; " When the same muscle ( or group of muscles ) is Icept in constant action until fatigue sets in , the total work done multiplied hy the rate of work is constant .
" The following experiments , in illustration of this law , were performed in Trinity College during the spring of the present year .
I instructed a number of medical students , chosen at random , to raise dumbbells of varying weight , one in each hand , in the tranverse plane , with hands supinated , raising and lowering the weights in equal times regulated by the beat of a pendulum .
This process was continued until

