]\gt ; [ 781 ] XVIII .
' the of } By K6Ros1 , } ) DrpctoroJ JAMES eceived Decembel 28 .
Read. .
1994 .
[ PLATE I. Preliminary 1 .
Introdnction . . . . .
2 .
General Remarks on the of . . . . . .
3 .
pecial Remarks on the dapeF t of IT .
llous Yatalit .
Female Ionogeuous N .
Monogenous Natality . . . . . . . . . .
arallelism and gence in tlftle and [ nl . . . . .
7 .
Difference between the Actnal and t Physiolo ITT .
Rigenons iliby .
8 .
Nntality according the Age ) . .
9 .
Curves of eatest Rclave Natality .
10 .
On the best Age Distance and the besl . . . . . . .
IV .
11 .
Use and Construction of . . . . .
12 .
and Age ations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
847 13 .
Returning Isogen . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14 .
Isogens and Age Distances 1.5 .
Points of Isogens .\mdash ; .\mdash ; .
( rther Uses Remarks . . . . . . . . . . .
) essures of Fecundity lIeasnres of the Richness of . . . .
Appendix .
Remarks Relating to the Adjustlnent of Results .
*An of this paper , ginally communicated , is be fonnd vol. of the ' Proceedings , ' .
the title " " An timate of the of talit as Ilown i the ) of Natality compiled by the Author from Observations mado Budar ) \ldquo ; rable m tionq have since been introduced ; in particular , Chapter .
( on Tsogens ) been dded , in conheqnence of ffie paper on " " by Mr. GALTON , the nding of followed that of .
KonosI 's paper.\mdash ; M.F. 30.4 .
J. ON AN ESTIMATE OF THE DEGREES OF LEGITIMATE I. PRELIMINARY REMARKS .
IntrocTuction .
Statistics applied to the subject-matter of rent sciences are merely a method : but statistics exist also as an independent science , the contents of which represenlt the demological facts obtained by ication of the statistical method .
The two branches of demological science , that is , statistics of natality and of mortality , , both of thelp , sprung the soil of England .
It was in 1661- ) that the Royal Society , by the ' Natural and Political Observations , ' written by ptain JOHN AUNT three before , laid the foundation stone of that science which , under the name of Vital Statistics , or Demology ( Demography ) , forms the scientific nucleus of statistical researches .
When published , 230 years ago , the outlines of this science , he could not loresee the grea extension which it would take , especially in consequence of the establishment of offices for the collection of statistics .
Notwithstanding that , it is indeed to see how large a part of those demological problems which occupy us to-day GRANT brought up at the first throw , and with what keenness of vision he recogn i not only the bifurcation into statistics of natality and of mortality , but alsu that other bifUrcation which vital statistics show in respect to its place amongst the other sciences .
The double character of statistics as a science has , in the course of centuries , been empllasized by the fact that statistics haVe been classed on the one side with the ] , and on the other with the anthropologica ] , group of the natural sciences .
GRANT shows in the mere title of his book how well he is aware of this double character of his new science : he calls his observations both " " political and natural This conviction comes out still plainer in the two dedications , of which\mdash ; in a most characteristic way\mdash ; one is addressed to the minister , JOHN , Lord TRURO , the other to the President of the Royal Society , Sir oBERT MORAY ; so that one dedication is addressed to the politician , the other t , o the natural ' The new science zealous cultivators at its place of birth , that is , iu the midst of the Royal Society .
WILLIAM worked at botl ] branches of this science , like the founder .
But the famous astronomer , E. HALLEY , brought int special importance a particular portion of the statistics of mortality .
The respec iv works of GRANT and PETTY dealt with the number of deaths , with the movement of * Thns he says in the dedication to Sir ROBERT ' The observations which I happelled to make upon the Bills ] have fallen out to be both Polifical and Natural , some concerning and , others COllcerning the Air , ntries , Seasons , , Health , , and the proportions between the and Ages of Mankind .
All which I am humbly bold to think History also , and consequently , that I am obliged to cast in this small mite into your great treasury of this kind NATALITY DERIVED HIS OBSERVATIONS AT .
788 lnortality in general , its ding to season , the causes of death , \amp ; c. , thus more with the purely descriptive of the ) henomella : succeeded in pproaching these observationls from a side .
His natheulatical acumen led him to recognize how the registrations of the age of death involved at ) tinle the possibility of obtaining the of -leath for the Herent degrees of age , and of thus the law according to which a } ) opulation dies .
In this way came into being the first life-table , composed by , ou the Breslau registrations of death , and presented in 1693 ( thus precisely two centuries ago ) ) the Society The day on presented his life-table must be egarded as the birthday of that biometrical part of death statistics which since that undergone such great essor and such deep elaboration .
Whilst the branch of death statistics thus its scientific basis centuries ago , the other branch of is , the natal statistics\mdash ; has ]oitered behind .
More than a hundred have ssed since blALTHUS stated that demological concerning the rapid of mankind\mdash ; a since his time , stands as central argument in the controversy of the social question , and still occupies the attention of thinking men , and which nevel more disappear from the horizon .
Now , this great problem rests essentially on natal statistics .
BIIt , in spite of the century which had passed veen G and MALTHUS , the latter , 1n his proofs , had still to struggle against the insufficiency of the statistical basis .
even to-day , another century after , we obliged to that this basis is still so defective that it is impossible to attenlpt , on such a dation , a solution of MALTHUS'S problems .
The points of we observe to-day the enon ) of natal statistics are hardly more numerous than century ago , in the time of MALTHUS and SUSSMJLCH .
In another place I have dealt with the lacunlae shown by the statistics , and tried at the same time to how it vould bossible to ] up lnauy of the1u.4 Amongst these lacunae the most is the bsen ce of a vel.itable , is , conn ) ] table of natality , which ought to be as the } ) lement of the tables of ulortality life-tables\ldquo ; ) which exist for the other part of demolog .
* See the 17th volnme of the ' Philosophical usaotious , , 1693 : " " All Estimate of the Degrees of the tality of Mankind , draWll f tables of ) Births and at the of Breslau , with an attempt to the of lities upon ves by Mr. , R.S. S. And at the same place : Some atiolb 0 Bills of tality.\ldquo ; See the author 's ' Beitriige ' ) ) : [ .
" " On tho sion of tics of Mortality and Fertility The term " " natality\ldquo ; formod on the of lity and has been dilfusod spocially b tTILLON .
It means genel.ally the subject of uatal tistics .
the prosent } ) , I attribute to this term a more restricted seuse , meuniug by it cially t of given age , and relating to the duration of a year .
Bnt ns expressions like nlale } ) robability of births\ldquo ; not only heavy , but might also be confouuded with t term probability of , \ldquo ; I often prefer use the term 784 J. SI ON AN DEGRhLS OF LEGITIMATE 2 .
on the struction of a Table of tality .
table of mortality ( ' ' life-table shows each year of age the probability of death in the course of year .
The table of natality ought to show , in a correS ] ) onding , for each year of age of the parents , the probability of a birth during a year .
this parallelism of ainl , the importance of the results is different .
In the life-table we have to deal predominantly with the ations of a phenomenon , independent of human will .
Not so the case of rtility , which\mdash ; , at least\mdash ; is ] influenced by voluntary causes .
But since the phenomena of the voluntary order have also their regular course , and since the real of the law of pplation is iiually the product of causes of both orders , it needs no special proof that these also ought to be subject to the measuring method of statistics .
Therefore , we should not deny the imacy of the attempt to calculate the probabilities of birth , though it cannot be de1lied that the results to be expected stand further off natural than the inquiries of biometry .
-Another erence is presented by the that death is caused by the physical conditions of a single person only , fecundity by those of two .
The probability of ]laving a child at a given age varies according to whether the other partner is young , uliddl e , or old .
As we have continua ] lie to reckon with this circumstance , may be lowed to introduce two denominations for the two species of natal probabilities , nalnin those which regard only one sex as ) nonogenous , and those which take into consideration the -combinations of both parents as bigenous .
It is clear only the latter ones deserve name of a true Table of Natality .
Further , let us name those tables which proceed by single years specified , and those where the are put together by greater quiuquennial , gl.oups cumulative .
By a complete enous table of natality we mean now such , which shows the probability for each single year of age of father and and that not only separately , .
but by combining each year of age of one with each year of the other .
this it may also be seen how much wldergrows the of the table ofnatality over that of the life-table .
Whilst the latter , if proceeding by the sirlgle years from birth till to the highest , is composed of about a hundred , thus for the two sexes , of about hundred yearly ele1nents , this number ises in the table of natality to 1500-2000 , this being the number of colnbinaiions for each of the 40-45 productive ' of men with1 each of the 35-40 productive years of women .
As the youngest years and the } extreme age combinations occur but very arely , it is onJy with observations to the population of a country that we could get probabilities for these outlying cases .
The of a1lts of Budapest furnished only 468 available age combinatior ) .
If we could extend these to a population of ten millions , the number of available age combinations would riscy above a thouHand .
In order to of bination of ' NATALITY DERIVLD HIS ATIONS AT BUDAPEST .
78,5 two conditions ; ( 1 ) that the census should tabulate the ae$ of the married couples by combination of the single years ; ( 2 ) that at each birth the age of the father and of the mother ought to be reported .
If we then proportionate the figures of 1ooth sides , we get thus the probability of a birth for each of the combinations of age .
As the age combinations of married couples are thus furnished by the census at larger intervals , but the age of the parents of the new-born children continually , it clear that the proportionation of these two figures loses more and more in reliability as the years of births get farther and farther from the year of enumeration .
It is therefore reasonable to restrict ourselves to the births of the years closest to term of the census .
Thus , if we would observe the births which occurred in the course of one year , we ought to select those which occurred six months before and six months after the census day ; if we could extend our obsorvations to the births of two years , we ought to select the births of one year one after the census .
This method of obtaining probabilities by a fraction , the two elements of which are taken from two different sources ( the numerator from the istration of the denominatol from the census ) , that is from two different populations , toucbes on a which we meet with not only in the able of natality , but also in the life table .
Of course the most complete method of observation would be to observe if could in a direct way.the fertility of the families , that is , if we had before us indiyidually all the families , where the parents are of a certain age and could observe how many children would be born during a year .
Since\mdash ; so far as I know\mdash ; there exists nowhere any method of registration , under which the births are under the heading of the family , this individual method of observation is impossible , and has therefore to be replaced by the common method of statistical observation , which instead of families and persons , concerns itself only with ures .
We know for instance what is the number of the married women of 30 years of , we know what is the of children born in a given year from mothers of this , and assume that these children come from these mothers .
But this supposition is only true up to a certain point , and false for the rest .
We meet this same difficulty also with the life-tables .
Here also it is but an assumption that those who died during the year at a certain age came from those persons who have been enumerated for this age at the beginning of the year , or even some years before .
In the case of { he life-table , which divides the population only into 200 groups to , the error caused by the falsity of the above-mentioned supposition remains more sily hidden .
But the table of natality divides fragment of the population ( the married couples ) into 2000 groups of age .
Thus the fault committed comes to often as we find children belonging to a certain ation for there registered no parents at all .
The census of Budapest , for instance , found not a ] family where the father was 23 years of age , and the mother under 16 .
But during the four years of observation there has been registered\mdash ; perhaps for an immigrated child of parents at this age combination .
Now this child floats rent l in the table of natality ; it is a numerator for which the census did not furnish a denominator .
But the correction of this defect is impossible .
* We have finally to add some remarks relating to the indication and When we inquire the of a population the answer is generally to be Llnderstood accordill to years already completed .
If a man says that he is 30 years old , he means he has lived SO and some time more .
Therefore I have regarded the tions as standing between two years of age , for instance , a man of 30 as being between 30 and Sl .
Besides this it is clear that the table of natality ought to refer tself to the of rents , not at the moment of childbirth , but at the time of generation .
Thus , if the people standing between SO and 81 years could be as in he average at the age of years , strict precision would us to register them with the generative of years .
But , for sake of simplicity , we content ourselves wit , the above-mentioned simple indication .
As all the ought to be reduced in a similar manner by nine months , the first-mentioned age indications are also comparable amongst themselves , nothing else being required but to change the indication of the column of age in a similar manner , saying instead of 30 to 31 birth to generative , and so on .
In the publications of some statistical offices we find here and there data on the age of the mother at time of childbirth .
Thus we are here well in possession of one of the factors which would enable us to establish at least monogenous probabilities for the mothers .
But what use can we make of that one factor if the other , that is , the number of married wives ( classed according to their age ) is wantin Or , if these statistics exist , but , if wives are grouped according to different limits of age , how is it possible to compare them ?
Or , if the division of ages is identical , but the two data refer to different periods of time And besides , after all such really existing difficulties , if we finally succeed in calculating some natalities , we obtain but half-a-dozen natal probabilities , so that in face of the hundreds thousands of probabilities contained in a complete table , those poor results cannot claim to be placed on the same level , to be regarded in general as tables of natality .
The indifference with which this important question has been treated is proved best by the fact , that even in those few cases where it would be possible to calculate some monogenous probabilities , this calculation has often been quite omitted .
As will be seen in the following pages , hitherto not a single specified bigenous , and not even a single specified male table of natality has been produced .
What we possess is only one specified table for the female ( Berlin ) , whilst a second * Not so with the life-tables .
Since , in the couutries where registers of population exist , each case of death is noted in the column ( or the card ) of the person , it is possible to ascertain pro- bnbility of death by observation of the individuals .
( See the Author 's paper on Life TabIes addressed to International Statistical Congress of Bud pest , 1876 , published separately , Berlin , 1879 and method there recommended .
) NATALITY DERIVED FROM HIS OBSERVATIONS AT BUDAPEST .
one ( Sweden ) has been finished quite recently ( after the pub]ication of this paper ) and of which , since it exists olJly iu MS .
, we give a summary In the following we a synopsis of the natal probabilities by some statistical offices , calculated by us the eIements furnished in the Sweden.\mdash ; The excelleub and respectable statistics of is country , which , ncxt to the Londoll deathrates , form the oldest to mortality statisbics , and , furthermore , the oldest important observations on smallpox , furnish also the oldest document of natality statistics , ' back as the year 1776 , with the observation of the ages of wometl in childbed .
For more than a ccntury the legitimate births have been put together with the illcgitimato ; but since the ycal ' these two categ.ories are separated one from anotLer .
The age was fornlerly into cight quinquennial groups , beginmng the age from to 20 years , and ishing w the f ; roups of above 50 years .
With the year 1861 they began to specify the group by single .
But for a century all these informations could not be used for .
natal statistics , as the ceusus works did not include the othel element , that is , the ages of the married women .
As these tiollS appear for the first time in the census of 1870 , and have been continued in 1880 all 1890 , it is } ) ossible to establish thirtecn enous ( female ) for bhe two last decenniums .
I by a letter of M. ELIS SIDENBLADH , the Director of the Swedish Office , that at present , nnmely , since the age of the mothel .
S in childbed is noted by , and that thus the office is now bled to publish enous probabilities for each year of the female period .
Dircctor SIr BLADII had the extreme to send me copy of this firsb attempt , and I sten to publish this tant document , thirty-tive female probabilities .
( Sce , so long as belonged to Sweden , possessed the snme statistics .
But of ) childbed is noted also subsequenbly iu six quinquennial groups , nge of and with 45-50 .
The census lrnishing the for the same ages of the ivcs , enabled to establish six cnons female Norway.\mdash ; The director of the statistical officc , Mr. A. N. KIAER , introduced i111870 the atior of the age at childbirth as wcll for ) mother , . . .
years ) as for the combined ) age years ) .
These quiries were continued ti1118 , then till l from 1889 onwards .
Thus , the one factor wanted for tho calculation of llatalit is elaborated iu nlost satisfying manner .
But as the census work colltains only the of the husbands and of separately , without the mutual tlge relations , one could establish for only and eight female monogenous probabilities .
Induced the wish to ] his valuable bigenous tistics on births , Mr. KIAER tried to furnish at least an approximate up of void contoined in the tabulation of Ples .
Tbus , in out the mutual age combination of oue-tcnth of the married population , that is of 30,000 married couples , enumerated at the census of Dcc .
, lS75 , and that in such a way that he combined the tcen m and eight fcnlalc goups of nlclltiolled above .
He obtained thus 104 age combinations .
Applying the resnlts obtained , to the whole of ) tion of orway , he succeeded thus in knowing , at least ] , the combinatiou for kingdom , and proportionating to these rures those of tho birbhs in 1874 , 1875 , and 1876 , hc ) cumulated bigenous table , containing virbually 104 , aclually 31 , enous probabiliticq .
It been undoubtedly better to extend the birth statistics as far as to 1873 , as thus the censtls would scut the state of the four years observed , whilst at the birth statistics ) after the census but only one before it .
, we to } ill ecious first attpmpt to blish t bigelloUS probabilitics , only in CUlllul:tio .
But Mr. KIAER informs me that the natal statistics of will spccified for the whole of the population of Norway .
As he is oCCupyio also with a of have thus to expect here one of the most imporbant contributions to the statistics of The Danish sbatistics contain since 1880 the age of ) , ( livided , cight groups , thus the possibility of establishing eight monogenous probabilities , which have also been published by the Statistical Office .
That is the whole of the vest in the vast field of national statistics .
But besides that , we found two othel counbries where the \mdash ; though made for other purposes\mdash ; allowed us to establish also some birth probabililies .
In Alsace and Lorraine they did not investigate the question of natal probabilities , but Professor STIEDA occ1lpied himseIf in investigating the influence of parental age combinations on the sex of the children , and we can uso his prepalatory tables also for our work .
Professor tabulated the number of ildren born by mothers of 15-19 , years with fathers , classified also by quinquenniums up to the fiftieth years of .
But here also the census does not enter into the age combination of married couples , and thus we can deduce from these data only nons probabilities : for the female and six for the male .
Jn the statistics of Brunswick we find since 1876 the age of mothers in childbed ated in seveu quellnial groups , thus the possibility of seven monogenous probabilities .
In the official ication there is calculated only the percental distribution of the number of births over the seven of : the of such a calculation not only difler from the probability of birbh , but give , even for itself , wrong , hat is , misleading figures .
us now pass to the territory of communal tistics .
In first line I have to mention the most interesting researches of MATTHEWS In 1855 , when systematic of birtbs in Scotland was established , the schedule in use exacted also the indication of the age of the parents\mdash ; a circumstance which gives to the egisters of that year an extraordinary value , for in subsequent years the use of this schedule was discontinued .
Dr. DUNCAN selected now the legitimately born children of Edinburgh and Glasgow as the field of operation .
He pecilied t age of the mother by quinquennial periods .
The census of 1851 nished the number of the married women in six qninquenniums , beginning with 15-19 years and ishing lvith 45-49 .
Leaving uncounted the cases , where the number of mothers was under a , the work of Dr. DUNCAN furnishes nine available monogenous probabilities for the mothers .
In the city of Berhn the dous interest taken in questions of demology by Dr. R. BOECKE , Director of Communal Statistics , produoed a series of important inquiries , and amongst these also a table of natality .
This table , it is true , is also only a monogenous ( female ) one , but it is worked out for each year of age , and since specified femaie table of .
SIDENBLADH has not yet been published , is to be rded as the first specified compilation of female probabilities .
Besides this , it also lakes into consideration the illegitimate natality .
( See p. 866 .
) fn his sbatistical works on the city of Paris , Dr. BERTILLON tabulates also the ages of the lcgibimate parents by combining six groups of paternal ages with six of maternal thus thir -six age combinations .
But as in the census work the ages of married people are not tabulated in the bigenous manner , these observations furnish only the pcssibility of twelve monogenous ities .
Uufortunately the age of the parents are known for less than three-fourths of the births only , for instance , in 1882 births Paris , , lvhil the total amounts to 62,581 .
The natalities obtained thus too short from reality and from the probability of other bates , to our regret we could not use the data of Paris .
It is the same with the Breslau statistics of Dr. .
The age of fathers is tabulated there since 1884 in twelve , that of the mothers in eight groups .
In spile of the want of a corresponding tabulation of ages of married couples one could still obtain \mdash ; * ' Fecundity , Fertility , Sterility , and Allied Topics .
' dinburgh , 1866 .
This out of print , it was , to my great legret , only quite recently that I was able to procllre it .
Dr. BOECKH gives also the .
of births occurring in families with mothers under , above 45 years , and where the age of the father is higher by 28 and more , by 23-27 , 18-22 , 13-17 , 8-12 , years , or is lower by 0-2 , 3-7 , 8-12 , 13 and years .
Bnt it is sible to culate at this ) the ) of .
fixed age combination .
NATALITY DERIVED FROM HIS OBSERVATIONS AT BUDAPEST .
twenty monogenous probabilities , if unhappily the tabulation of the ages in the census work were not a different one , so that for the present we cannot calculate natal probabilities for this city .
* Thus we may say thab there exists as yet , not only no complete\mdash ; that is , no specified\mdash ; bigenous table of natality , but even no specified compilation of the paternal monogenous probabilities .
We may also say that , up to the time when we the tion of the Budapest naLalities , there existed only two attempts at constructing such probabilities\mdash ; that of KIAER for gdom of Norway , and that of BOECKH for the city of Berlin .
But we that even these do not a veritable table , the first being bigenous but not specified , the other specified but not bigenous .
So far as I know , the Budapest table of natality is thus the first complete\mdash ; that is , specified and bigenous\mdash ; one .
But , as we learned by the information obtained M. KIAER at Christiana and M. NBLADH at Stockholm , we hope that the next year will furnish us a bigenous specified table for Norway , and a male specified oIJe for Sweden .
Thus the two Scandinavian kingdoms , to which the world owes already such thanks for the development of demological vledge , will also enrich this part of scientific inquiry with two contributions which\mdash ; in consequence of their referring to the population of two great ] \mdash ; will merit much more attention than the present attempt , based on the population of a single city .
It will , then , a special interest to compare the points of parity , the curves of greatest , the isogens , \amp ; c. , with the values obtained from the 468 pr.obabilities established for the city of Budapest\mdash ; values which , up to now , cannot be deduced even from the 31 bigenous values of the Norw .
tables , and still less for the still scarcer data of the remaining statistics .
3 .
Special Remarks the of The table of Budapest is based on the schednles introduced by the author in for each legitimate birth .
This schedule is to be filled up by the and has to be presented to the registrar of births at the molnent of registration .
The has to transmit this bulletin each week to the office of statistics .
This blank contains a series of interesting and partly questions , bling us to reorganize the whole natal statistics of Budapest in a much wider form .
Thus , * I learn by a letter of Dr. NEEFE , that in the tabulation of the 1890 census this divergence will be avoided , and that we shall thus obtain for the city of Breslau bigenous natalities .
The registration of births being the hands of the , the municipal istration could not succeed in questions to these inters .
As may be by the Statistical Year-book of 1870 for the City of Pest ' ( pp. 9 and 67 ) , twenty years ve passed since made the first attempts to improve the birth alion , in ordel to reorganize and to euricl ] the statistics .
All being , he had to accept the compromise , the information wished for should be collected , not b clergy , but by the midwifc , former themselves to the collection and transmission of the bulletins .
The first form of this blank has been published in the author's(Hungarian ) 'Statisticnl vol. , 1880 , parb 188 , and in his re December , 1888 , at the adetuy of nccs J. ROSI ON AN ESTIMATE OF THE DEGREES OF LEGITIMATE since that date we have been in a position to investigate the influence of parental age and occupation on ferbility , on the vitality of the children , on the sexual proportion , on the number of the still-born , the influence of the duration of marriage on the of children born , \amp ; c. By combining the 46,926 children born in 1889 , 1890 , 1891 , and lS92 , and classified according to the age of their parents , with the data furnished by the census of January 1 , 1891 , on the ages of the 71,800 married couples , we are also enabled to establish the present table of natality .
It happens sometimes that the statistical blank is not presented at the time of registration .
As it ] be inequitable to refuse , purely for the want of the statistical information , the registration and all the important civil rights connected with this the clergymen carry out the registration in any case , restricting themselves to informing the statistical office of the cases of omission .
It is then the duty of this office to undertake the necessary steps in order to procure schedules , to secure which fines may even be imposed .
But it is obyious that in such way there will always remain a certain quota of cases where the statistical report cannot be produced .
Especially in the beginning , when people were not yet quite favourable to the nstitution , the greater part of births escaped statistical elaboration .
Thus , in those first four years ' observations , on which the present inquiry is based , we obtained 92 per cent. of the registered legitimate births , but , in the following year , 97 per cent. But , even in the best case , this kind of statistics will always show a certain deficiency , caused by the changes or incorrectness of address , by cases of ration from the city , of death , \amp ; As the above-mentioned deficiency of 8 per cent. is not confined to a certain age , but distributed equally over all ages , the natalities obtained are well comparable one to another .
But , in comparing the Budapest natalities , as contained in the present paper , to other ones , we ought to keep in memory that the first ones ought to be enlarged by about 8 per cent. The table of natality of Budapest begins for the male with the age under 20 , for the female with that under 16 , and lasts up to the oldest ages observed .
But , for our present inquiry , we can use only the period of fertility , that is , for the } other , up to about 55 , and for the father to about 70 years\mdash ; presenting thus 2040 age-combinations .
However , as , for the great number of cases , the male procreative power is extremely reduced at 60 , the female at 50 years , we may finish our observation at the sixtieth year of and at the fiftieth of maternal age .
In this case our ] embraces virtually 1435 elements of age-combinations .
The number of age-combinations for which births were reported amounts to The improved form is published also in German in his ' Demologische Beitrage ' ( Berlin , 1892 ) , p. 24 .
both places , but especially in of his ' Monbhly ' ( part 197 ) , al.e contained also plans for eJaborating as well the table of natality as in general the whole newly organized natal statisticS of Budapest , of which the table of natality forms but a fragment .
* A corresponding work for Norway obtained the ages of the parents ] for sr per cent. of the births .
( See page 108 of the 25 Anniversaire de la Societe de Statistique , Paris , ' 1886 ) .
In the city of Paris bhe arc known only oenl .
of the NATALITY DERIVED FROM OBSERVATIONS AT BUDAPLST .
1105 .
But , as bhe bulk of 72,000 ] , if divided into 1400 to 1500 ) of furnishes rures too small for the out-lying .-combinations , I left out of account the combinations with only or less families , and also from the combi tions with to 99 families\mdash ; in order to the curves or to connect separated ments of them\mdash ; I admitted only those where the respective probabilities ] nearly the same course as the ynized part of the curye based on at least 100 families .
In such a way the table of natality races actually 468 ] combinaticns .
Passing now to results of these observations , I shall deal first with bhe monogenous natality , and subsequently with the bigenous .
II .
MONOGENOUS NATALITY .
The two principal results are the ving : 1 .
That the of legitimate fertility is reached veIy soon , so that the deciine * The place of suoh probabilities is marked in the Table by an astel'isk .
In order to call the attention of the reader to the ] value of these vntions ( embracing families ) , I pnt those into brackets .
These admitted age tions ur ns follows : \mdash ; MR. J. ROSI ON AN ESTIMATE THE DEGREES OF LEGITIMATE , in the case of the male , upwards from 25 , and in that of the female , upwards from 1S years .
2 .
That the 1 itimate fertility does not remain at the same level for many yeara together , but that it declines after reaching the highest point .
hese results do not agree with the view of physiology , according to which the generative power should nain for some time at the same height .
But we ought not to lose sight of the fact that the legitimate fertility is to be regarded as the resultant of two forces .
The number of children born in a family is , in fact , a consequence of the physiological power only , but also of the wish to have .
In a family where children already exist , the wish for the increase of them is weaker and will be weaker , the greater the number of offspring .
Now the number of children increases with advancing age , the force of the moral factor increases also with the age .
Thus passing from younger couples to older ones , we pass at the same from small to large families , that is from those where the wish for offspring is greater to those in which it is less , where consequently the influence of the moral factor is preponderant over the physiological one .
It is to this preponderance that we must attribute the fact that the probability of birth diminishes so rapidly and so ularly with the advancmg age .
I shall prove in the following , statistically , that by eliminating the influence of the moral -factor , we find fertility distributed in a much more uniform manner over life .
But let us first of all recognize the course which the curve follows under the influence of both factors .
Though this curve does not represent the course of natural law , it furnishes notwithstanding a picture of the actual state of gitimate fertility and thus of the chief condition of the multip]ication of mankind .
4 .
Female Monogenous Natality .
The census of Budapest found only five wives under 16 , and in the course of years only 6 births have been reported from mothers of that tender .
Twentyseven wives were between 16 and 17 years and 88 between 17 and 18 .
Thus the reliable portion of our table of natality begins with the women between 18 nnd 19 .
But with this age we find ourselves already at the maximum of fertility .
At the of 18 and 19 years , the annual probability of births is and per cent. ; that is to say , we may suppose that at this age nearly one wife out of two will give life to a child .
Beginning with the 20th year , the probability of births declines in a decided manner .
At the decline is but slight , but notwithstanding that , at the age of 25 years the probability amounts to only .
per cent. , and with 30 years to only 24 per cent. About the year the curve of natality a dedination .
Thus with 35 it amounts to only 16 per cent. , and five years only 8 per cent. After the age of 43 , we again observe a still more marked

