A paper was read , entitled , " On the empirical Laws of the Tides in the Port of London , with some Reflections on the Theory .
" Bv the Rev. Wiliiam Whewell , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow and Tutor of Trinity College , Cambridge .
The present state of our knowledge of the tides is represented by the author as extremely imperfect , and at variance with the scientific character which Physical Astronomy is supposed to have attained ; for although it be the universally received opinion that they are the direct results of the law of gravitation , the exact laws by which the phenomena are actually regulated with regard to time and place have never been strictly deduced from this general principle .
The tide tables that have been given to the world are calculated by em ?
pirical methods , which are frequently kept secret by those who employ them - , and the mathematical solutions of the problem hitherto at ?
tempted have been confessedly founded on hypotheses which are in reality very remote from the real facts 5 and accordingly it is doubtful whether they give even an approximation to the true result .
The comparison of the results of theory with extensive series of observations had not been attempted previously to Mr. Lubbock 's discussion of the tides of the port of London , recorded in the Philosophical Transactions for 1831 .
The establishment , on theoretical grounds , of rules for the calculation of tide tables , has been attempted by Bernoulli and by Laplace : the methods recommended by the former are probably the foundation of those at present used by the calculators of such tables , that of Laplace being complicated , and too laborious for practice .
Original tide tables are very few ?
none , with which the author is acquainted , deserving that title , except those which are published for Liverpool , and those for London .
The former , which are calculated according to rules obtained from Mr. Holden , from the examination of five years of observations , made at the Liverpool docks by Mr. Hutchinson , at that time harbour-master , are remarkably correct .
Several tide tables for London are annually published ; but they vary considerably from one another .
The method generally practised in England for the construction of tide tables for other places , has been to add or subtract some constant quantity , according to the place , assuming as a basis the tide tables either of London or of Liverpool ; but this assumption of a constant difference is shown by the author to be , in various instances , incorrect .
Much , therefore , remains to be done , before we can hope to arrive at a seientific solution of this problem .
The author then proceeds to examine the empirical laws of the tides of the port of London , deducible from the records of the nineteen years of observations which have been discussed by Mr. Dessiou , under the direction of Mr. Lubbock , and which include 13,073 observations .
His first object is to determine the manner in which the time of high-water is affected by the following conditions , namely , the right ascensions , declinations and parallaxes of the sun and moon ; for which purpose he considers at some length , first , the establishment ; secondly , the semimenstrual inequality ; thirdlv , the correc ?
tions for lunar parallax ?
fourthly , the lunar declination ; and lastly , the solar parallax and declination .
He next discusses the empirical laws of the height of high-water ; which he observes will be affected in the same manner as the periods of the tides , by a semimenstrual inequality , by corrections for lunar parallax and declination , and by a solar correction ; and concludes by giving a formula for computa ?
tion which comprehends all these elements .
He then enters into a comparison of the results thus obtained with the theory of Daniel Bernoulli , according to which the waters of the ocean assume nearly the form in which they would be in equilibrium under the actions of the sun and moon , on the supposition that the pole of the fluid sphe ?
roid follows the pole of the spheroid of equilibrium at a certain angular distance ; and that the equilibrium corresponds to the configuration of the sun and moon , not at the moment of the tide , but at a previous moment , at which the right ascension of the moon was less by a constant quantity .
The author thinks , however , that it would not be safe to attempt to deduce from the preceding investigations any general views concerning the laws of the tides , for it is not likely that the discussion of observations at any one place should exhibit clearly the true principles of the theory , especially as , in the present case , it so happens that the phenomena of the tides at London are in some measure masked by a curious combination of circumstances , namely , by the mouth of its river being on the side of an island , turned away from that on which the tide eomes , and so situated that the path of the tide round one end of the island is just twelve hours longer than round the other .
In consequence of the time required to transmit to any port the general effect of the tide-producing forces being different from the time required to transmit to the same port the effects of particular changes in these forces ; or , in other words , from the epochs of the changes due to parallax and declination being different from the epoch of the semimenstrual inequality , it follows that although the general form of the terms , and the variable part of the arcs on which they de ?
pend , may be deduced from the theory of equilibrium , yet the constant epoch which occurs in each of these arcs , and which determines when the inequality vanishes , and reaches its maximum , will probably have to be determined , in all cases , by observation .
In conclusion , the author gives a statement of what appears to him to be the most important steps from which any great improve ?
meant to our knowledge on the subject of the tides may be hoped ; and recommends the discussion of extensive collections of observations made at a variety of places , in a manner similar to what has been done by Mr. Dessiou with regard to those at London ?
and the comparison with one another of the empirical laws resulting from their separate investigation .
Very valuable materials for this purpose , heexpects , will hereafter be furnished by the observations now making , on a judicious system , at the St. Katharine 's docks .

