II .
" Observations of the Absolute Direction and Intensity of Terrestrial Magnetism at Bombay .
" By CHARLES CHAMBERs , Esq. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Communicated by Lieut-General SABINE , R.A. , President .
Received April 5 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The observations made by the author were of the three usual elements the Dip , Declination , and Intensity of the Horizontal Component of the Force .
They were taken with instruments supplied to the Colaba Observatory in the year 1867 through the Kew Committee of the British Association , after having been tested at the Kew Observatory .
The dip-circle was made by Barrow of London , and is furnished with two needles ; the other instrument , the unifilar magnetometer , which serves both for observations of declination and horizontal force , was made by Elliott Brothers of London .
The results of the observations for dip only have as yet been received from the author .
A complete observation consists of thirty-two readings , each end of the needle being read twice in each different position of the needle and circle ; and the mean of the thirty-two is taken as the result of the observation .
The observations were 178 in number , commencing on the 29th of April 1867 , and extending to the 29th of December 1868 .
They were generally taken , with the two needles alternately , on particular days of the week .
Up to August 17 , 1867 , the observations commenced with either end ( A or B ) of the needle dipping , and without remagnetizing the needle ; i. e. the magnetization for the latter half of one observation was made to serve for the first half of the next observation with the same needle , the two needles having been kept during the interval with contrary poles adjacent in a zinc box ; but after August 17 , 1867 , the needle was always remagnetized , so as to make the end A dip during the first half of the observation .
The effect of this change of practice was to produce a marked increase in the accordance of successive observations .
Tables are given containing every complete observation made up to the end of 1868 , and showing , as well as the mean dip , the partial results in each position of the circle , and with each end of the needle dipping , and also the mean weekly and mean monthly values .
The mean dip obtained for the months April to December 1867 was 19ยง 2'`00 , and for the year 1868 was 19ยง 3'87 .
The period embraced by the observations is too limited to allow of an exact determination of the rate of secular change ; nevertheless the observations show distinctly that the dip is increasing .
The author takes + 1'"3 as the rate of annual change .
For the probable error of a single weekly determination , including the effect of actual magnetic disturbance of an irregular character , the author obtains for the period from April 29 to August 16 , 1867 , 0'-67 ; from August 23 to December 31 , 1867 , 0'26 ; from January 1 to December31 , 1868 , 0'`24 .
Notwithstanding the extreme smallness of these probable errors , the indications of needle No. 2 exceeded those of needle No. 1 by quantities ranging , in the means of periods of a few months , from about 0 to +5'.0 .
An endeavour is made in another communication to explain a possible cause of these differences .

