]\gt ; 3 .
498 Prof. B. Hopkinson .
[ Jan. 31 , described , and others of similar nature .
The word wave-meter may probably bs preferred in practice , but , if a special term is desired , ths author suggests , with diffidence , the name Cymmeter or Kymometer from wave ) as applicable to it .
The Effects of Momentary Stresses in Metals By BERTRAM HOPKINSON , M.A. , Professor of Mechanism and Applied Mechanics in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor EWING , F.R.S. Received January February 16 , 1905 .
In 1872 the late Dr. John Hopkinson published an investigation into the effect of a blow delivered by a falling weight on the lower and free end of a wire , the upper end of which is fixed .
It is unnecessary to repeat the mathematical analysis in full , but its main features appear in the following argument : soon as the weight strikes the stop at the lower end a wave of extension starts up the wire , and the velocity with which it is propagated is , where is Young 's modulus , and the density of the wire .
At a time after the weight has struck , so short that its velocity is not appreciably diminished , the lower end of the wire has moved through a distance , where is the velocity of the weight immediately after striking .
That is to say , the wire as a whole is lengthened by an amount This extension is felt over a distance from the lower end , that being the distance through which the wave of extension initiated by the blow has travelled .
The mean strain in this portion of the wire is therefore , and the remainder of the wire is not extended .
The wave now travels up the wire to the fixed end , and when it reaches there a reflected wave of equal amplitude starts down the wire .
There results momentarily at the top end of the wire a strain equal to with a corresponding tension .
This is the maximum tension experienced by any part of the wire until the reflected wave again reaches the lower end .
Each bit of the motion of the weight after striking contributes an element to the wave of extension , which is proportional to the then velocity of the weight .
The weight is continually being retarded , and the amplitude of the wave therefore continually diminishes as you back from its front .
writer is indebted::to his colleague , Professor A. Platt , for advice on the correct form of these words .
'Original Papers , ' Hopkinson , vol. 2 , p. 816 .
1905 .
] The Effects of Mornentary Stresses in Metals .
499 In Fig. 1 the abscissae ars distances measured from , the free end of the wire ; the ordinates are the strains , and any one of them , say , is equal to , where is the velocity which the weight had when the bit of wave at left it .
If be the time , reckoned from the moment of striking , ON , and it is easy to show that where is the mass of the wire per unit length , and the mass of the weight .
The wave of extension represented by the curve and its dotted continuation travels up the wire without change of type to the upper end , where it is reflected , and a similar wave travels down the wire , the effect of which is added to that of the original wave .
The strain at any point of the wire , such as , is zero till the wave reaches it .
The strain then becomes , and gradually diminishes according to the exponential law until the reflected wave reaches when the strain increases by again .
Further reflection will ooour FIG. 1 .
at the moving weight , but in my experiments this is not considerable , and the maximum experienced at any point of the wire , at any rate in the upper haIf , occurs when the reflected wave reaches it .
If be the distance of the point from the upper end , the total strain due to the up-going and down-coming waves then is .
The movement in space of any point before the reflected wave reaches it is equal to the area of the curve PNN'P ' .
For the point in question this is .
The strain caused by the blow is added to any initial strain in the wire .
When , as is usually the case , the wire is under tension at the moment of the blow , and the tension is released by the blow , the initial strain in the wire is somewhat diminished by the time the wave reaches the top end ; superposed upon the extension caused by the blow there is a slight contractiou due to the release of the tension at the lower end at the moment of striking .
The ultimate 500 Prof. B. Hopkinson .
[ Jan. 31 , result is that the total increase of length , caused by the blow , of a piece at the top end of the wire is ( 1 ) where is the initiaI tension .
In my experiments is small , and its square may be neglected .
The expression then becomes ( 2 ) .
The second term is a small correction , but cannot in all cases be neglected .
The piecs of wirs lengthens continuously as the wave passes over it , and begins to contract when the reflected wave arrives at its lower end .
The extension then has the value given by expression ( 1 ) .
These results are all to be found in Dr. Hopkinson 's papers cited above , or follow at once from the results there given ; and so it does not seem necessary to repeat the proofs here .
In the same paper Dr. Hopkinson gave the result of some rough experiments which went to confirm the principal conclusion from this analysis , namely , that the power of a blow to rupturs a wire should be measured rather by the velocity with which it is delivered than by its energy or its momentum .
It also appeared , as might be expected , from the mathematics , that the wire was most likely to break at the upper end .
In these experiments , made over 30 years ago , the only available means of estimating the momentary stresses produced by the blow was the effect they left upon the wire , , rupture .
As the mathematical treatment proceeds upon the assumption that the stress and strain are everywhere and always proportional , it was not to be expected that it could give more than a very general indication of the impulse neoessary to rupture the wire .
With the appliances now available , however , I think that experiments on these lines are capable of yielding a good deal of information about the effect of stresses applied for a very short time , such as are met with in most cases of shock .
The practical importance of such information need not be insisted upon .
I have , therefore , made some experiments of the same kind , but instead of rupturing the wire I have used blows which leave but little permanent extension .
I have measured the momentary extension of a few inches at the top of the wire , and compared this with the extension as calculated from theory and given in expression ( 1 ) above .
If the two agree , and if not much permanent extension is left , it is clear that the theory is correctly applied , and that the stresses in the material may be calculated from it .
Moreover , we know that the material must be substantially elastic up to the maximum stress so calculated if applied for the time given by the theory .
1905 .
] The Effects of Momentary Stresses in Metals .
The general result that I have obtained is that iron and copper wires may be stressed much beyond the static elastic limit and even beyond their static breaking loads without the proportionality of stresses and strains being substantially departed from , provided that the time during which the stress exceeds the elastic limit is of the order of 1/ 1000 second or less .
The wire was in each case of No. 10 gauge , and about 30 feet long ; it was hung in a vertical chase in a wall , the upper end being firmly fixed in a block of iron , weighing .
about , the ends of whioh were built into the wall .
This block carried a vertical stee ] rod , at any point of which could be clamped the contact-making device for measuring the momentary extension .
The construction of this sufficiently appears from the figure .
The light hard steel point A is fixed to the wire at a certain dista1lce , usually 20 inches , from the upper end .
The wire having been drawn taut preparatory to the experiment , the insulated spring is pushed up by the micrometer screw ulltil contact is made with the point as shown by the deflection of the galvanometer .
The is then withdrawn by the amount of extension expected ; the blow is delivered and the galvanometer shows whether contact between the point the spring has occurred or not .
By using a sensitive ballistic galvanometer without any resistance in series with it , it was found quite easy to determine the instantaneous extension of 20 inches of wire correct to 1/ 1000 of an inoh , that amount of difference in the position at which the spring is set converting a big throw of the galvanometer into no deflection at all .
In a few cases a second point was added with a similar contact spring close to the upper end of the wire , in order that any displacement of the wire relative to its supports might be detected , But I found that if the wire was soft soldered into a bolt about 3 inches long screwed into the block , this precaution was unnecessary .
The falling weight was a cylindrical piece of steel weighing 1 lb. , with a hole drilled along its axis which was a loose fit on the wire .
The wire was kept taut by a spring balance attached to its lower end , the tension in which could be varied from 20 to .
The stop struck by the falling weight was a metal sleeve slipped over the wire and soldered to the lower end .
was made as light as possible so that the velocity of the weight should not be much diminished at impact .
The velocity at impact was calculated from the height of fall , being taken as where is the mass of the weight , and that of the stop .
From time to time the permanent extension on the 20 ches was measured by again pushing the spring into contact with the wire when under steady tension .
No analyses were made of the materials , because , at the present stage , all that I desire to do is to compare the Prof. B. Hopkinson .
[ Jan. 31 , effects in the same material of impulsive and of long continued stress .
The nature of the material , however , sufficiently appears from the statio tests .
Iron Wire.\mdash ; This was bought as iron wire , No. 10 gauge .
Its diameter was inch .
After placing it in the chase it was heated to redness and stretched , to straighten it .
The annealing softened it materially , and somewhat unequally in different parts .
The following was a set of observations on this wire , which is typical : Steady tension .\mdash ; Height of fa115 feet .
Contact point 20 inches from the tlpper end .
One division on micrometer head 1/ 2000 inch Micrometer reads with a steady load of 50 lbs. when contact first made on the spring being pushed up .
1905 .
] The Bffects of omentary Stresses in Metats .
Micrometer set at isions e. No contact when weight let fall .
Repeat the blow.\mdash ; No contact .
Repeat.\mdash ; No contact .
Micrometer with steady load of 501bs .
now reads Micrometer set at divisions extension ) .
No contact .
Altered to .
Contact ; the galvanometer spot went half across the scale .
Repeat.tact again .
Steady micrometer reading after this Micrometer set at 111 ( 75 divisions extension ) .
No contact .
Repeat.\mdash ; No contact .
Repeat.\mdash ; No contact .
Steady reading now Micrometer set at 110 ( 74 divisions extension .
No contact .
Repeat.\mdash ; Contact occurred .
Steady reading now Hence , the instantaneous extension in this case is 74 miorometer divisions , and the permanent extension produced by 11 blows is about divisions .
Then followed a set of 4 blows with a 10-foot fall , and with tension .
They resulted as follows:\mdash ; Steady reading .
Set at 110 .
Contact .
Steady reading .
Set at 125 ( 105 divisions ) .
No contact .
Steady reading .
Set at 132 .
Contact .
Steady reading .
Set at 148 106 divisions ) .
No contact .
Steady reading Hence , the extension produced by the blow is probably between 103 and 105 divisions , and almost certainly between 102 and 106 .
Permanent extension produced by 4 blows divisions , or just over Now static tests on this wire showed a load of 390 lbs. extends it by part .
Also its mass per foot is .
Hence .
nearly .
The mass of the stop was .
Hence , the velocity just after impact , is , a 5-foot height of fall , f.s. Also since feet ; Further , lbs. poundaIs , and it will be found that is about thousandth of an inch , or micrometer division .
Substituting these figures in the expression ( 2 ) above , the extension on the 20 inches , as calculated , is thousandths of an inch , or , say , micrometer divisions .
The observed extension is 74 divisions , which is olose agreement .
This , coupled with the fact 504 Prof. B. Hopkinson .
[ Jan. 31 , that the permanent extension produced on the 20 inches is negligible , is fairly conclusive evidsnce that the theory is applicable in this and that the material is almost perfectly elastic up to the highest stress as calculated from the theory .
The maximum strain at the top of the wire is , or thousandths .
The responding tension is about 790 lbs. To this must be added the .
steady tension , making a total of .
as the maximum stress experienced by any portion of the lvire .
The mean bension in the top 20 inches , where the extension is greatest , is , or Now , after the completion of the experiments , the top 20 inches oi the wire were cut out and tested statically with a Ewing 's extensometer .
There was perceptible failure of elasticity at 500 , very marked yielding at 7001bs .
( which produced a permanent extensio1 ] of per cent and at .
the wire drew out very rapidly and finally broke .
With a fall of 10 feet and a steady tension ( T ) of 20 lbs. , the calculated extension will be found to be 53 thousandths of an inch , or 106 micromster divisions .
This , again , agrees very well with the observed extension of 104 divisions .
In this case the oalculated maximum tsnsion at the top end is 1150 lbs. , and the tension on the 20 inches about 1000 lbs. Of this extension , however , about 11 per cenG .
is permanent , so that there is some failure of elasticity , and it is that the maximum stress quite reaches the caIculated value .
It is practically certain , however , that it exceeds the mean str corresponding to the part of the maximum sxtension in the top 20 inches , , about Next as regards the time for which these stresses are applied .
The strain at the top of the wire is , where is the time which has elapsed since the wire rst arrived there .
In the oase of the 5-foot fall it will be found that the stress falls from 840 lbs. , its initial and maximum value , to 500 lbs. , which may be taken as the elastic limit , in about thousandth of a second .
These esults were fully confirmed by a large number of experiments in which different steady tensions were applied .
The general conclusion is that in this material , which has an elastic limit of 40 , or tons per square inch , and breaks at tons , a stress momentarily exceeding 75,000 lbs. , or tons , and exceeding the static elastic limit for a time of the order of 1/ 1000 second , may be applied without any very great failure of elasticity .
It may be further noted that a blow from a height of 10 feet , *Ihe absolute stress is , as usual , calcuIated on the uncontracted area of the testpiece .
The statical breaking stress at the moment of breaking is , of oourse , greater than this figure , but hen the material is hardened by the drawing out .
1905 .
] The Effects of Momentary Stresses in Metals .
giving a tension momentarily exceeding 900 , produces a permanent extension of part , or 1/ 30 of the ultimate extension caused by a steady load of Wire.\mdash ; This was inch diameter , and of the kind used in eotriC light cables .
It was set up without preparation of any kind .
A load of .
stretched it by part , corresponding to tons per square inch .
The wire weighed .
per foot .
The steady tension lvas Iass of falling weight ( M ) .
; mass of stop , .
Velocity of propagation of waves , With a fall of inches the additional extension observed on the top 20 inches was 41 micrometer divisions .
The calculated extension ( formala ( 2 ) above ) is 43 divisions .
The permanent extension produced by 20 blows was about 2 micrometer divisions .
With a fall of 2 feet 6 inches the observed extension was 67 divisions .
The calculated extension is divisions .
Ten such blows extend the 20 inches by micrometer divisions , or thousandths of an inoh .
The elasticity is therefore practically perfect up to the stresses caused by a fall of 2 feet 6 inches .
The greatest strain at the top end caused by this blow is thousandths .
The tension due to this is , and the resultant tension , including the initial is .
The mean tension on the top 20 inches is .
( calculated from the observed extension of 67 Tested statically with the extensometer , this wire showed failure of elasticity at .
With a load of .
it yielded rapidly and finally broke .
With a fall of 5 feet , and the same initial tension of , the observed extension on the top 20 inches was between 100 and 1 micrometer divisions , as against 103 calculated ; of these about 30 divisions were permanent .
The calculated maximum tension in this case ( including the ) is .
But the elasticity here is far from perfect , and the actual stress is probably somewhat less than the calculated value .
The.observed extensions are , in the case of the copper wire , about 5 per cent. less than the calculated .
I think that this is more than can be accounted for by errors of observation , or by such causes as friction between wire and weight , especially having regard to the much closer agreement in the other wires with which I have experimented .
possible explanation is that in the copper wire the value of Young 's modulus for these extremely rapid extensions is 10 per cent. greater than for slowly applied forces .
The difference between the adiabatic and isothermal elasticities as calculated from the coefficient of expansion and Young 's modulus , is not sufficient to account for the effect , which must be a true time effect if it exists .
The history of the stress in a section of the wire after one of these Mr. G. T. Beilby .
Phosphorescence caused by [ Jan. 28 , blows is rather complicated , and it difficult to deduce from the resulta anything more than the general conclusion stated above , that the wire is substantially elastic up to stresses much beyond the static elastic limit , and that the mathematical theory gives correct results .
I hope , however , by suitable modifications of the experiment , to simplify the ditions , and obtain by this method more detailed information as to the properties of materials when subjscted to shock .
It seems to me quite possible that the stress-strain relations for stresses beyond the elastic limit may be much simplified if the stresses are applied for exceedingly short times , because the ation of hardening , due to overstraining , will be to a large extent removed .
" " Phosphorescence caused by the Beta and Gamma Rays of Radium By G. T. BEILBY .
Communicated by Professor LARMOIi , Sec. R.S. Received January 2.5 , \mdash ; Read February 9 , 1 .
Various observers have iced that barium platino-cyanide , after continued exposure to the rays from radium , becomes brown or red , while the phosphorescence excited by the rays falls off considerably .
The following observations were made with the object of ascertaining the conditions under which this change occurs .
2 .
A specimen of Merck 's barium platino-cyanide was recrystallized and obtained in prisms from 3 to 5 mm. long .
The crystals were bright canary yellow and showed a pale blue fluorescence by obliquely reflected light .
3 .
The radium llsed was 30 milligrammes of bromide contained in a cell with a thin mica cover .
This radium is the property of Mr. Frederick Soddy , to whom I am indebted for granting me its exclusive use for more than three months .
All the experiments were made removing the mica cover of the cell , so that the effects produced were due entirely to the and rays .
In comparing the phosphoresence at different stages , black paper was interposed between the cell and the substance so as to cut off the luminous rays from the radium .
4 .
When yellow crystals of platino-cyanide are left on the mica cover of the radium cell for half an hour , the beginnings of the colour change from yellow to rsd are distinctly visible .
In one hour those surfaces most directly in the path of the rays become strongly reddened .
In eight hours the phosphorescence has fallen to a minimum of 81100 of its original amount , at which it remains , however long the exposlue may be continued .
Crystals were exposed to the rays for eight days , but the phosphor-

