482 Prof. T. J. Parker .
[ Mar. 22 , I shall finish this paper with one more instance .
In most birds the true sacrals have only the upper transverse processes , or diapophyses ; the lower bars , or arrested " pleuroids , " are entirely gone in the adult , but small prickles remain , often more on one side than on the other .
Thus the spaces for the large sacral nerves and their ganglia , and for the lobes of the kidneys , are not quite cleared .
In the Tiger-Bittern ( Tigrisoma leucoloph , a Neotropical member of the " Ardeidae , " there is no vertebra in the sacrum , until we come to the last three uro-sacrals , that has not its inferior or " pleuroid " bars .
The sacrum of this bird is composed of fifteen vertebrae , the first has developed ribs , with imperfect sternal pieces , the next two have small ankylosed ribs , separated for some distance from the diapophyses .
Then come three with stout generalised pre-iliac buttresses .
The next six have inferior rib-bars , those of the last four are strong , those of the first two weak .
On the left side the second of these rods is membranous for a short extent ; on the right side it is imperfect in its outer part , it is a mere prickle growing from the centrum .
Except on the atlas this bird has ribs or rudiments of ribs up to the twelfth sacral .
I suspect that if the ancestral form from which the Tiger-bittern arose could be put face to face with its stilted descendant , the two would differ as much as the vermiform larva of Tipula oleracea differs from its winged and stilted imago .
Y. " Second Preliminary Note on the Development of Apteryx .
" By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , C.M.Z.S. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago .
Communicated by W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received March 8 , 1888 .
The materials for the present investigation consist of embryos of the three common species of Apteryx , viz. , A. , A. and A. mantelli .
Most of them , including all the earlier stages , were collected for me by Mr. R. Henry , of Lake Te Anau ; a nearly ripe embryo of A. mantelli was obtained from Mr. A. Reischek : and I am indebted to Mme .
Muller for a half-ripe specimen of A. , and to Sir Walter Buffer for two , somewhat older , of A. mantelli .
I desire to record my sincere thanks to the Council of the Royal Society for the grant which has enabled me to defray the expenses of the investigation .
My observations are far from complete , and deal only wTith comparatively late stages .
The eggs of Apteryx are at all times difficult to obtain , as evidenced by their high market value , and Mr. Henry is bird dissected by me in having the pre-ilia , buttressed by seven pairs of massive processes instead of six , by having only one true sacral , and by showing strong costal bars on both the first and second uro-sacral .
" 1888 .
] On the Development of Apteryx .
the only collector I have yet met with who was willing to give his time not only to collecting the eggs , but to removing and preserving the embryos .
I have , unfortunately , never been able to leave Dunedin during the breeding season so as to try and procure the earlier stages , the removal and preservation of which could not be entrusted to a collector .
My first Stage ( A ) corresponds roughly with a chick embryo of the fourth day of incubation : the full number of mesoblastic somites \#151 ; about 44\#151 ; has already appeared .
Stage B is apparently only a few hours older : Stage C corresponds very nearly with a fifth day chick , except that the limbs are in a less advanced condition .
Stage D is in about the same state of development as a chick of the 7th day ; it was unfortunately damaged by the collector during removal from the egg , both fore-limbs being destroyed. .
Avian characters are now definitely assumed , the head being produced info a short beak very like that of a chick at the corresponding period .
The hind-limbs are still in the primitive position , i.e. , stretched out at right angles to the long axis of the body , but their extremities are dilated into flattened paw-like feet which distinctly show the three principal digits and a small knob-like hallux .
Stage E is a little later than D , and is chiefly interesting for the condition of the fore-limb , which is terminated by a tridactyle paw with sub-equal digits .
In the hind-limb the cnemial flexure has appeared , but not the mesotarsal flexure , so that the combined crus and pes are directed backwards .
In Stage F the characteristic features of the genus Apteryx are assumed , the beak having undergone a great increase in length and bearing the nostrils at the tip .
The fore-limb is now a true wing , the manus being supported mainly by the second digit , but presenting blunt projections on the pre- and post-axial borders of the wrist which indicate respectively the positions of the reduced first and third digits .
In the hind-limb the mesotarsal flexure has appeared , and the pes has nearly assumed its adult characters .
The feather-papillae appear first in this stage .
In Stage G the feather-papillae have become larger and more widely distributed ; the beak and the hind-limbs have further increased in length , and the wing shows no trace externally of either the first or the third digit .
In all the remaining stages the adult form is assumed and the body covered with feathers .
Contrary to the usual statements as to the pterylosis of the Ratitae , Apteryx has distinct apteria , which are especially noticeable in the earlier stages.* In Stage F , in which the feather-papillae first appear , they are arranged in fairly distinct dorsal , humeral , and femoral * Pterylse and apteria are figured in the embryo ostrich and referred to in the description of the figures by Miss B. Lindsay , ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1885 , PI .
XLIII .
Prof. T. J. Parker .
[ Mar. tracts ; the ventral tract appears in Stage G. In the ripe embryo and even in the adult , besides the narrow ventral space recognised by Nitzsch , there are well-marked lateral spaces separating the dorsal and ventral , and the dorsal and femoro-crural tracts from one another .
In the full paper a table and diagrams will be given showing the length of important parts of the body ( head , beak , limbs , \amp ; c. ) , in the various stages , expressed as percentages of length of vertebral column .
The table shows that while the wings attain their maximum relative size in Stage P , the legs continue to increase in proportional length some time after hatching .
The brain-case , also , undergoes from Stage G onwards a proportional diminution in size , while the beak increases steadily up to adult life .
The greater part of the full paper will deal with the skeleton : a detailed description will be given of the entire skeleton at about the time of hatching , when all the more important ossifications have appeared and but little ankylosis has taken place .
The vertebral formula is\#151 ; ___________a._______ Cv .
16 .
Th. 5 + 3 : L. 8 : S. 3 : Cd .
3 + 6-8 .
The bracket indicates that the last three thoracic , all the lumbar and sacral , and the first three caudal vertebrae are united to form the compound sacrum of the adult .
The axis vertebra is ossified by five centres , the additional one occurring in the antero-ventral region of the body , below the odontoid ; this evidently represents an inter-centrum or inter-vertebral wredge-bone .
The cervical ribs appear to chondrify separately from the rest of the vertebrae ; but further observations are needed on this point , as well as on the autogenously ossified transverse processes of the sacral vertebrae which in the youngest specimen hitherto examined are continuous with the vertebrae .
The skull differs so little except in details from that of other birds , that there is little to be said about it in an abstract .
The chondro-cranium of the ripe embryo and the separate membrane bones will be fully described and figured .
As in other birds , I find no trace of Jacobson 's organ ; the capsule of the organ is , however , represented by a distinct ( paired ) rod of cartilage in the vomerine region , as in Rhea .
In Stages D\#151 ; G the shoulder-girdle consists of a solid piece of cartilage having much the same shape as the adult bone .
In Stage H an ossification appears in the scapular region , and another in the post-axial moiety of the coracoid region .
In Stage I a fenestra appears , immediately pre-axiad of the coracoid ossification , dividing the ventral portion of the shoulder-girdle into procoracoid and coracoid 1888 .
] On the Development of Apteryx .
485- A(xio ) B(xio ) Apteryx australis and oweni .
VOL. XLIII .
2 M On the Development of Apteryx .
[ Mar. 22 , regions .
The resemblance at this stage to the shoulder-girdle of the ostrich is very close , but the late occurrence of the distinction between coracoid and procoracoid , and their formation by fenestration of a continuous cartilage , are remarkable .
In Stage K the procoracoid has degenerated into a ligament which now forms the sole pre-axial boundary of the coracoid fenestra .
Later , the coracoid ossification extends pre-axiad until the membrane of the fenestra is replaced by bone , but even in the adult the position of the fenestra is marked by the thin , often emarginate plate which forms the inner or pre-axial portion of the coracoid .
The small aperture situated mesio-ventrad of the glenoid cavity , and sometimes described as the coracoid fenestra , serves for the transmission of a nerve .
In Stage B the manus contains three well-chondrified sub-equal digits ; the carpals are not yet chondrified , and are only indicated by a concentration of nuclei in the blastema .
In Stage F the second digit has increased out of all proportion to the first and third .
In Stage G the pollex has degenerated , and its position is indicated only by a concentration of nuclei in the mesoblast ; two well-marked carpals have appeared , one of which\#151 ; the radiale\#151 ; lies pre-axiad and slightly proximad of the other , which gives attachment to the second and third metacarpals .
In Stage H the radiale lies entirely proximad of the second or distal carpal , which is closely applied to the proximal ends of the two metacarpals .
In the newly-hatched bird the second and third metacarpals have ankylosed with one another and with the distal carpal , the radiale remaining separate .
In Stage G the pubis closely resembles that of a chick of the 6th day , the pubis being vertical and the ilium comparatively short .
In Stage E the ilium has lengthened greatly , and the pubis forms an angle of 20 ' with the vertical .
In G the adult form is assumed , and in H ossification has begun .
In Stage D the tarsus consists of three elements , tibiale , fibulare , and a single cartilage representing the five distalia .
Besides the three functional digits of the adult , and the pollex , which at this stage has its normal connexion with the tarsus , there is a distinct vestige of the fifth metatarsal in the form of a rod-like cartilage , 04 mm. long .
In Stage E the foot has elongated ; the pollex has shifted distalwards , and is now attached to the pre-axial edge of the second metatarsal at about the middle of its length .
The fifth metatarsal is still distinct , but has not increased in size ; the tibiale and fibulare have united .
In Stage F the foot has nearly attained its adult form .
The united tibiale and fibulare instead of being , as in the preceding stage , in close contact with the combined distalia , are separated from them by a narrow in-growth of connective tissue , the rudiment of the meso-tarsal semilunar pad .
.The fifth metatarsal is still visible , but has JPresents .
1888 .
] undergone distinct retrogression , being only .
0-15 mm. in length , and formed of indifferent tissue instead of hyaline cartilage .
From this it would appear that the , fifth metatarsal actually disappears in Apteryx instead of fusing with the fourth as in the chick .
In Stage G the proximal tarsalls are closely applied to but have not yet united with the tibia ; the distalia also are still distinct from the metatarsals .
The rudiment of the mesotarsal semilunar pad has increased considerably , and in the centre of it a rounded nodule of hyaline cartilage has appeared , which I take to be the representative of the centrale tarsi , an element not hitherto recognised in birds* In a recently-hatched specimen of Apteryx , it is a perfectly distinct cartilage about 2 mm. in diameter , imbedded in the fibrous tissue of the semilunar pad ; in the adult it becomes ossified , attaining a diameter , in A. oweni , of about 5 mm. . .
As the scientific , libraries to which I have access are small and imperfect , I take this opportunity of saying that I shall be extremely gratef ul to the authors of papers bearing npon the subjects of the present investigation who will favour me with separate copies .
[ Note.\#151 ; In no stage is there any trace of the hard knob on the beak\#187 ; which in birds generally assists the embryo to break the egg-shell.\#151 ; March 21 , 1888 .
] The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , April 12th .
* Presents , March 22 , 1888 . .
t Transactions : Baltimore :\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular , No. 63 .
4to .
Baltimore 1888 ; Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Ser. 5 .
No. 12 .
8vo .
Baltimo 1887 ; Report , 1887 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1888 .
* The'University .
Birmingham :\#151 ; Free Libraries .
Report , 1887 .
8vo .
Birmingham 1888 .
The Committee .
Edinburgh:\#151 ; Royal Scottish Society of Arts .
Transactions .
Vol. XII .
Part l. 8vo .
Edinburgh 1881 .
' The Society .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin .
1888 .
No. 15 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
London :\#151 ; British Museum ( Natural History ) .
Catalogue of the Fossil Mammalia .
Part V. 8vo .
London 1887 ; Catalogue of * It was figured , but not described , by Morse ( " On the Intermedium , " ' Anniversary Mem. Boston Soc. Not .
Hist. , ' 1880 , Plate I ) ; and is figured and described as naviculare vel " centrale " by .
me in my paper " On the Morphology of Birds .
" ( See Abstract , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' toL 42 , 1887 , p. 58.)\#151 ; W. K. P. 2 m 2

