]\gt ; 82 Prof. Cayley .
On the [ June and descriptions of the skull in the Insectivora can be brought out , the present paper , as a whole , is somewhat imperfcct for want of standards for comparison , such as are to be found in the more skulls to be seen in the animals of that Order .
II .
" " On the Non-Euclidian Plane Geometr.\ldquo ; By Professor CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received blay 27 , 1884 .
1 .
I consider the hyperbolic or Lobatschewskian geometry : is a geometry such as that of the imaginary spherical surface ; and the imaginary surface may be bent ( without extension or contraction into the real surface considered by Beltrami , and which I will call the Pseudosphere , , this is the surface of revolution defined by the equations .
We have on the spherical surface imaginary points corresponding to real points of the pseudosphere , and lines ( arcs of great circle corresponding 10 real lines ( geodesics ) of the pseudosphere , and , moreover , any two such imaginary points or lines of the imagi.nary spherical surface have a real distance or incIination equal to the corresponding distance or inclination on the pseudosphere .
Thus the geometry of the pseudosphere , using the expression straight line to denote a of the surface , is the Lobatschewskian geometry ; or rather I wonld say this in regard to the metrical geometry , or trigonometry , of the surface ; for in regard to the descriptive geometry , the statement requires ( as will presently appear ) some qualification .
2 .
I would remark that this reaIisation of the Lobatschewskian geometry sustains the opinion that Euclid 's twelfth axiom is undemonstrable .
We may imagine rationa ] beings living in a twodimensional space , and conceiving of space accordingly , that is having no conception of a third dimension of space ; this twodimensional space need not however be a plane , and taking it to be the pseudospherical surface , the geometry to which their experience would lead them ] be the geometry of surface , that is , the Lobatschewskian geometry .
With regard to our own two-dimensional space , the plane , I have , in my Presidential Address ( B.A. , Southport , 1883 ) expressed the opinion that Euclid 's twelfth axiom in Playfair 's form of it does not need demonstration , but is part of our notion of space , of the physical space of our experience ; the space , that is , which we become acquainted with by experience , but which is the representation lying at the foundation of all experience .
8 .
I propose in the present paper to furbher develope the geometry of the pseudosphere .
In regard to name , and the subject 1884 .
] uclidian lGeometry .
83 generally , I refer to two memoirs by Beltrami , " " Teoria fondamentale degli Spazu di Curvatura Costante Annali di Matem .
, .
ii .
( 1868-69 ) , pp. , and " " Saggio di ione della Geometria non-Euclidea , \ldquo ; Giornale di Matem .
, .
vi ( 1868 ) , pp. 284-312 , both translated , Ann. de l'Ecole Normale , .
vi ( 1869 ) ; in the Iast of these he speaks of surfaces of constant negative curvature as :pseudospherical and in a later paper , " " Sulla superficie di rotazione cbe serve di tipo alle superficie pseudosferiche Gior .
di Matem .
, , pp. 147-151 , he treats of the particular surface which I have called the pseudosphere .
The surface is mentioned , Nots iv of Liouville 's edition of Monge 's " " Application de l'Analyse a la Geometry \ldquo ; ( 1850 ) , and the generating curve is there spoken of as bien connue des geometres FIG. 1 .
4 .
In ordiuar .
plane geometry , take ( fig. 1 ) a line , and on it a point ; from , in any direction , draw the Iine BA ; take upon it a point , and from this point , at right angles to , draw , cutting it at C. We have thus a iangle A , right-angled at ; and we may denote the other angles , and the lenghts of the sides , by .
In the constrnction of the figure length and angle are arbitrary .
The plane is a surface which is homogeneous , isotropic , and palintropic .
That is , whatever be the position of , the of , and tlJe sense in which the angle is measured , we have the same expressions for as functions of ; these expressions , of course , are .
But considering Ay as the initial line , and , as a liIle drawn A at an inclination thereto , we have in like manner and ; whence Prof. Cayley .
On the [ June , and thence right angle , or right angles .
Hence also in any triangle ABC , drawing a perpendicular , say AD from A to the side BC , and so dividing the triangle into two rightangled triangles , we prove that the sum of the angles is two right angles , and we further establish the relations which are the fundamental formulae of plane trigonometry ; that is , we derive the metrical geometry or trigonometry of the plane from the two original equat ion13 B. 5 .
Supposing the plane bent in any mannel , converted that is into a developable surface or torse , and using the term straight line to ilenote a geodesic of the surface , then the straight line of the surface is in fact the form assumed , in consequence of the bending , by a straight line of the plane .
The sides and angles of the rectilinear ABC on the surf are equal to those of rectilinear triangle ABC on the plane , and the mebrical relations hold good without variation .
But it is not simphciter true that the descriptive properties of the torse are identical with those of the plane .
This will be the case if the points of the plane and torse have with each other correspondence , but not otherwise .
For instance , consider a plane curve ( such as the parabola or one brallch of the hyperbola ) exteltding from infinity to infinity , and let the torse be the cylinder having this curve for a plane section ; then to each point of the plane their corresponds a single point of the cylinder ; and conversely to each point of the cylinder there corresponds a single point of the plane ; and the descriptive geometries ars identical .
In particular two straightlines ( geodesics ) on the cylinder cannot incIose a space ; and Euclid 's twelfth axiom holds good in regard to the straight lines ( geodesics ) of the cylinder .
But take the plane curve to be a closed curve , or ( to fix the ideas ) a circle ; the infinite plane is bent into a cylinder considered as composed of an infinity of convoIutions ; to each point of the plane there corresponds a single point of the cylinder , but to each point of the cylinder an infinity of points of the plane ; and the descriptive proporties are in this case altered ; the straight lines ( geodesics ) of the cylinder are helices ; and we can through two given points of the cylinder draw , not only one , but an infinity of helices ; any two of these will inclose a space .
And even if instead of the geodesics we consider only shortest lines , or helices of greatest inclination ; yet even here for a pair of points on opposite generating lines of the cylinder , there are two helices of equal inclination , that is , two shortest lines inclosing a space .
We have in what precedes an illustration in regard to the descripbive geometry of the pseudosphere ; this is not identical with 1884 .
] Non-Euclidian Plane Geometry .
85 .
the Lobatschewskian geometry , but corresponds to it in a manner such as that in which the geometry of the surface of the circular cylinder corresponds to that of the plane .
6 .
The surface of the sphere is , like the plane , homogeneous , isotropic , and paliutropic .
We may on spherical surface construct as above a right-angled triangle ABC , wherein the side and the angle are arbitrary ; and ( corresponding to the before-mentioned formulae for the plane ) we then have whence also A. We deduce from these leading to ; and then ctan giving a ; that is A , which is Hence right angle , or in the right-angled trangle ACB , the sum of the angles is right angles .
Whence also in any triangle ABC whatever , dividing it into two rightangled triangles by means of a perpendicular let fall from an angle on the opposite side , we have the sum of the angles right angles .
And we , moreover , , , , which lead to all the formulae of spherical trigonometry .
7 .
Suppose the radius of the sphere to be : then being the lenghs of the sides , the lengths in spherical measure are and we must in the formulae instead of write , Ab , respectively .
In particular for the imaginary sphere , we have , and we must instead of write ai , bi , respectively .
The fundamental formulae for the right-angled triangle thus become 86 Prof. Cayley .
On the [ June 19 and these lead to all the trigonometrical formulae , , any ome of ' these is deduced from the corresponding formula of spherical trigonometry by writing therein , ci for respectively ; or , what is the same thing , by changing the circular functions of the sides into the corresponding hyperbolic functions .
In particular for the right-angled triangle ACB we have A which for and real , that is , right angle , or right angles , and then also in any triangle whatever right angles .
But the points of any such triangle ABC on the imaginary sphere , and the lines BC , , AB which connect them , are imaginary : the meaning of the proof will better appear on passing to the pseudosphere .
8 .
We have to consider the imaginary spherical surface as bent into a real surface .
This is , of course , an imaginary process , as any process must be which gives a transformation of imaginary points and lines into real points and lines ; but the notion is not more difficult than that of the transformation of imaginary similarity , consisting in the substitution of , for respectively .
We thus pass from imaginary points of the imaginary sphere to real points of he real sphere ; or , again , from imaginary points of either of the real hyperboloids to real points of the other of the same two real hyperboloids .
9 .
I consider the formulae for the flexure of the imaginary sphere , into the pseudosphere : it vould be allowable to dispense with Beltrami 's subsidiary variables , bu6 I prefer to collect here all the formulae .
We have ' which give .
And observe that taking to be real magnitudes such that , we have X a pure , but and each of them real .
We consider on the imaginary sphere points having such coordinates X , ; any such point corresponds as will immediately appear to a real point on the pseudosphere , and ( the distances and angles being the same for the pseudosphere as for the original imaginary spherical surface ) it hence appears that the points on the imaginary spherical surface , and the lines joining such points , are imaginary ) the distances and angles on the imaginary spherical surface are reaJ .
1884 .
] Non-Euclidian Plane Geometry .
and thence , Also 10 .
We have and each .
Writing respectively , we in fact have dPdQ , where respectively , and thence the formula ; and then also .
Joining to these the differential expression in we have where the final equation , shows that the imaginary sphere can be bent into the pseudosphere .
Observe that to given values of ffiere corresponds a single point on the pseudosphere , but not conversely , for if be values corresponding to a given point , then corresponding to the same point we have , where is an arbitrary integ.er .
11 .
The geodesics of the imaginary surface axe , of course , its plane sections , such section being determined by a linear equation , between the coordinates X , , Z. Since for a point corresponding to a point of the pseudosphere X is a pure imaginary , while and are real , we see that for a geodesic corresponding to a real geodesic of the pseudosphere we must have a pure imaginary , and real ; and , in fact , writing as above , , and therefore conversely Prof. Cayley .
On the [ June , the equation becomes , which will then be of the form , with real coefficients , we have , ; and the equation thus is which is the equation for a geodesic ( or straight line ) on the pseudosphere .
The equation , that is , const .
, is obviously that of a meridian .
12 .
If the geodesic pass a given point we have , of course , , and hence also the equation of a geodesic through the two points , is We may for vrite ) respectively , being arbitrary integers ; and it would thus at first sight appear that there could be drawn through the two points a doubly innnite series of geodesics .
There is , in fact , a singly infinite system of geodesics : to show how this is , writs for shortness for respectively ; then the equation of the geodesic through the two points may be written where the constant may be disposed of so as to simplify the formula as much as may be , it is what I have called an apoclastic constant .
Taking an arbitrary value , this may be transformed into 1 , , 1 , , and then assuming , this becomes 1884 .
] Non-Euclidian Plane Geom which is what the equation becomes on changing only into , that is , , where is an arbitrary integer .
We have thus through the two points a singly infinite series of geodesic lines ; in general only one of these is a shortest line , but for points on opposite meridians there are two equal shortest lines .
13 .
For the distance between two points , on the pseudosphere , taking , for the orresponding points on the imaginary sphere , and writing as above , we have Observe here that writing ) , and therefore small so that , we obtain agreeing with the expression for .
If in the form first obtained we write , we find which is a convenient form .
In like manner , to find the mutual of the two geodesics these correspond to the plane sections , that is , of the imaginary sphere : and we thence find 15 .
Suppose that the two geodesics meet in the point : then 90 Prof. Cayley .
On the [ June 19 ; writing for shortness , and therefore , we have Suppose that the meridian through this point is then .
Take , for the inclinations to this meridian of the two geodesics respectively , then ' whence and similally whence We thence obtain which is the equality of the two numerators depending on the identity particular , if we consider the two geodesics the ser , ond of which may be considered as representing any meridian section of the pseudosphere , and the first is an arbitrary geodesic meeting this at the point , then the formla for the inclination is Hcnce also , , or , if .
we have for the equation of the geodesic ough the point , at right angles to the meridian section 1884 .
] Plane Geometry .
91 16 .
Consider a right-angled triangle ACB , where the points on the meridian , and write , for the points , respectively .
if equations are\mdash ; for side , we have , whence ; for side CA , , we have ; for side AB , we have Observing that , we have , ; or , reducing these by the relahon , they become ' whence ; ' , , ; , ' We have , moreover , , writing , becomes ; Or further reducing by means of Prof. Cayley .
On the this becomes whence ; and with these values we verify c.cos B , which are the expressions for the sides , in terms of the length BA , and angle , which are arbitrary .
I have not thougbt it necessary to give the direct verification of these equations for a more general position of the gled triangle : we already know , and it appears a posteriori by the following number , that the verification really extends to any right-angled triangle whatever on the surface .
17 .
The pseudosphere is homogeneous , isotropic , and palintropic , , this is the case when bending is allowed ; in other words , the surface is applicable upon itself , with three degrees of freedom ; considering any infinitesimal linear element , the point A may be brought to coincide with an arbitrary point of the surface , with the element in an arbitrary direction through , and the area about A will then coincide with the area about .
The analytical theory is at once derived from that for the sphere , , we have a rectangular transformation where the coefficients are such that identically ; 1884 .
] -Euclidiun Plane Geometry .
93 and where the coefficients are connected by six equations only , the system thus depending on three arbitrary parameters .
If , as before , we write , for respectively , then the relation is readily found to be \ldquo ; this being read according to the lines only \amp ; c. , not according to the columns : in order that the coefficients may be real , we must have real , pure imaginaries .
Writing the equations in the form , \amp ; c. it would be possible to deduce the equations which connect the new coefficients ; but these are more easily obtainsd from the consideration that we must have identically ; the equations are thus found to be 18 .
The general theory of the transformation of a quadric function into itself enables us to express the coefficients in terms of three arbitrary parameters .
There is no difficulty in working out the formulae , and we finally obtain in question is .
The curve may be constructed graphically : take ( fig. 2 ) ths distance , on OB , very near to , and then ; on very near to , and then and so on ; the curve is shown on a Iarger scale in fig. 3 .
But the curve may also be laid down numerically ; writing ( so that is the inclination of the tangent to the axis of y ) 1884 .
] Euctid Plane Geometry .
95 we have , where , the hyperbolic logarithm ( which has been the signification of throughout ) , is the function tabulated Tab. IV .
Leg .
" " Traite des Foncbions Elliptiques , pp. 256\mdash ; 259 .
We may hence obtain the values of the coordinates as follows:\mdash ; Attending only to one-half of the surface we may regard the surface as standing om the circular base : say this circle is the equator , or the unit-circle : the horizontal section being always a circle , the radius diminishing at first rapidly and then more and slowly from 1 to as the height increases from to .
It is hardly necessary to remark that the radius of the equator is any given length whatever , taken as unity : the equations might , of course , have been written but there would have been no gain of generality in this .
20 .
The geodesics are as already seen given by an equation .
If , we have , that is const .
, which belongs to the meridians ; if be not , we may by a mere change of , that is , of the initialmeridian , reduce the form to , which is the equation of a geodesic cutting at right angles the meridian ; writing herein , we have , which is the equation in the polar coordinates of the projection of the geodesic on the equatorial plane : putting herein for greater convenience , we have : we .
require only such portions of the curves as lie within the unit-circle , and need therefore attend only to those for which is circle in the points ( respectively ; in the case , that is , , the two points come together at the point , or the curve becomes a loop ; and for rger values , to ' we have the two branches crossing each other on the meridian at the distance from the centre and then extending themselves in the opposite semicircles , so as to meet the unit-circle at the points .
And we have thus another critical value , for which the two branches having thus crossed each other come to unite themselves at the point of the unif-circle ; and in like the critical values , \amp ; c. : for a value of between such limits the branch is a spiral having a determinate number of convolutions , and the two branches cross each other always on the radii and respectively .
21 .
Let 1/ / denote the inclination of the radius vector to the norma ] , or what is the same thing , that of the element of the circular arc to the tangent ; we have , and , that is , .
At the intersection with the unit section , and therefore ; moreover putting , so that the equation of the curve now is , then for we have ; and hence at the intersection with the unit-circle ; that is as decreases from , or increases from , the angle at which each curve cuts the unit-circle is always , and thus this angle continually increases from ; for , and therefore ban , we have nearly , the complemen is 1884 .
] Non .
Euclidian Plane Geometry .
97 thus the angle at which each branch of the loop cuts the meridian 22 .
To obtain .
another datum convenient in tlacing the curve , I write for the value of at the unit-circle ; and introducing moment the rectangular coordinates , then we easily find and thence for the equation of the tangent the point on the uni6-circ1e , .
For the tangent at the point of intersection with the radius or say the apse , we have ; and hence at the intersection of the two tangents which putting therein becomes , where is given in terms of by the just mentioned equation .
We have ] for the locus of the intersection of the two ; this is easily seen to be a curve having a cusp at the unit-circle .
23 .
Fig. 8 shows the curves for the values We construct and graduate the unit-circle ; draw to tangent at , and measuring oif from a distance equal to the semi-circum- ference , graduate this in like manner in equal arts to ; then to find the curve belonging , for instance , to , we join with the centre of the circle the point of the tangent , thus deterVOL .
XXXVIT .
Prof. Cayley .
On the ; 1884 .
] Non-Euclidiun Plane Geometry .
99 mining on the unit-circle a point belonging to the angle ; this point we draw parallel to the tangent a line which is the tangent at the lowest point ; the passes through the on the unit-circle , and there cuts the circle at the angle or , what is the same thing , the radius at the complementary angle ) , and we have thus the tangent at the point of the unit-circle ; it 11 be that this meets the tangent at the apse at a point near to this apse , so that the arc as determined by the two tangents is for a large part of its course nearly a right line ; this is still more the case for smaller values of or , while for larger values the deviation increases , but in the neighbourhood of the unit-circle the form is always nearly rectilinear .
I show in the same figure the form of the curve for , that is , the value at the apse : the constrnction for the tangent at the unit-circle is the same as before , but in order to lay down the curve with lolerable accuracy we require also the value of the node on the meridian ; this , of course , given by , that is , if ; whence without difficulty , the value at the node .
24 .
The curves shown in the figure are projections upon the plane of the unit-circle , , they are the projections on this plane of the geodesics , which cut at right angles a given meridian ; bnt bearing in mind the form of the meridian , it is easy , by means of the projection , to understand .
the actual forms on the surface of the pseudosphere .
A point near the centre of the figure represents a point high up on the surface ; and in any radius the portions near the centre are the foreshortened in the figure , and represent greater distances on the surface .
Each geodesic cutting the meridian at right angles at the apse descends symmetrically on the two sides , reaches ultimatel.y\mdash ; it may be after many convoIutions\mdash ; the unit-circle ; the meriaian itself is a limiting or special form of geodesic .
The unit(iircle is not properly a geodesic , but it is am envelope of geodesics .
25 .
To obtain all the geodesics we have to consider the geodesics which cut at right angles a given meridian ; and then to imagine this meridian ( with the geodesics which belong to iii ) turned round so as to occupy successively the positions of all the other meridians .
The same remark applies of course the projections ; the figure shows projections cutting at right angles a given radius of the circlc ; and this radius ( with the projections to it ) is then to be turned round so as to occupy successively the positions of tho other radii .
We may the several geodesics turned round separately , each through a different ftngle , so as to bring each of 26 .
Taking a point so low down on the surface that the geodosic at right angles to the meridian through is a simple arc , then imagining the two extremities each moving in the same sense round tho circIc , but A faster , so as to assume the positions ; ; and so on to coinciding with each other , we have the arcs , and so on until we come to the loop : after which we have in advance of , and so on to cnrves of any number of convoIutions .
Considering any two arcs\mdash ; , C'C\mdash ; and drawing the geodesic BC which joins their exbremities and C. then any geodesic through intermediate to , or , say , to , will meet the arc BC ; while the geodesics through extramediate to QB , QC will not mcet , or will only after : convolution or convolutions meet , the arc .
This of corresponds to the Lobatschewskian theory , according to which we have a point to the extremities at infinity of a line , two distinct lines , said to be the parallels through of the line ; and which are such that ) line through intermediate to 1884 .
] Non-Euclidian Plane Geometry .
101 , QC meets the line BC ; while any line through extramediate to , QC not meet the line 27 .
It is interesting to connect the theory of the geodesics of the pseudosphere with the general theory of geodesics .
Starting with the form we have ; and therefors , or , and the differentia,1 equation of ths geodesic becomes ; that is where and writing here we have .
Moreover , from we find , and the equation becomes Introducing here in pJace of by the equation , we have and the equation thus becomes ( 3-2G ) ' The whole term in is thus which divides by ; the whole equation thus divides by 2 ( 1\mdash ; G ) , and omitting this factor , the equation becomes values , the equation becomes ; , this is Writing herein ( an arbitrary constant ) we have ' ' and the equation becomes ; , this is which is satisfied by or an arbitrary constant .
Substituting for their values , this is that is , ) , or , what is the same thing , , where the ratios are arbitrary .
III .
" " The Proteids of Selum.\ldquo ; By W. D. HALLIBURTON , M.B. , B.Sc. , Sharpey Physiological Scholar .
Communicated by Professor SCHA , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University Collcge , London .
) Received May 28 , 1884 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) The investigation of which this paper gives a brief summary relates to serum-albumin rather than to serum-globulin , and the experiments may be arranged in two , those relating to heat-coagulation ; and secondly , those relating to the action of tain salts upon the proteids of blood-serum .
The apparatus used for the determination of the temperature of the heat-coagulation of proteids was not that which has been usually employed for the purpose , and which consists of two beakers containing water , one within the other , and heated gradnally over a sand-

