On the Action of Radium Emanations on Diamond .
47 " On the Action of Radium Emanations on Diamond .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.B.S. Received June 9 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1904 .
When diamonds are exposed to the impact of radiant matter in a high vacuum they phosphoresce of different hues , and assume a dark colour , becoming almost black when the bombardment is long continued.* Some diamonds blacken in the course of a few minutes , while others require an hour or more to discolour , !
This blackening is only superficial , and although no ordinary means of cleaning will remove the discoloration , it goes at once when the stone is polished with diamond powder .
The fact that the black stain is not affected by ordinary oxidising reagents would seem to show that it is not due to a layer of amorphous carbon ; .but it might be graphite , which is much more resistant to oxidation .
Becquerel has shown that graphite is converted into graphitic oxide by long digestion in a warm mixture of potassium chlorate and strong nitric acid , while diamond\#151 ; even in a very finely powdered state\#151 ; is absolutely unaffected by the mixture . !
Some forms of graphite dissolve in strong nitric acid ; others require a mixture of highly concentrated nitric and potassium chlorate to dissolve them , and even with this intense oxidising agent some graphites resist longer than others .
M. Moissan has shown that the power of resistance to nitric acid and potassium chlorate is in proportion to the temperature at which the graphite has been formed , and with reasonable certainty we can estimate this temperature by the resistance of the graphite to this reagent .
Judging from the long time required to remove the superficial darkening from diamond , the graphite is as resistant as that formed at the temperature of the electric arc .
On one occasion when I had blackened the surfaces of diamonds by molecular bombardment in vacuo M. Moissan was present , and took some away with him for further examination .
He subsequently reported the results in the ' Comptes Rendus.'S He heated the diamond to 60 ' in an oxidising mixture of potassium chlorate and fuming nitric acid prepared from mono-hydrated sulphuric acid and potassium nitrate fused and * * Phil. Trans. , ' 1879 , Part II , p. 658 , par .
625 .
t At a lecture before the Royal Institution on June 11 , 1897,1 exposed a flat made crystal of diamond to radiant matter bombardment before the audience for about 5 minutes , a strip of metal covering part of the stone .
On removing the diamond from the vacuum tube and projecting its image on the screen with the electric lantern , the image of the darkening was very apparent .
X ' Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys./ [ 4 ] , vol. 19 , p. 392 .
S Vol. 124 , No. 13 .
48 Sir W. Crookes .
On Action of * [ June 9 : quite free from moisture .
The action on the black layer is very slow .
There is produced graphitic oxide , which at an increased temperature yields pyrographitic acid , easily destroyed by nitric acid .
Hence the variety of carbon which coated the diamond was graphite .
The transformation of diamond into graphite requires the high temperature of the electric arc .
The higher the temperature to which graphite is raised the greater is its resistance to oxidation .
M. Moissan concludes that the temperature reached by the surface of the diamond in my radiant matter tubes is probably about 3600 ' .
The / 3-rays from radium having like properties to the cathode stream in a radiant matter tube , it was of interest to ascertain if they would exert a like difference on diamond .
Two Bingara diamonds , A and B , weighing respectively 0*960 and 1*020 grains , were selected as near as the eye could judge of the same size and colour\#151 ; very pale yellow , technically known as " off colour .
" Diamond A was put in a drawer far removed from radium or any radio-active body .
Diamond B was kept close to a quartz tube containing about 15 milligrammes of pure radium bromide sealed in vacuo .
It phosphoresced brightly and continued to glow the whole time of the experiment .
After a fortnight the two diamonds were put side by side and compared .
I could see no appreciable difference in colour between them .
Diamond B was now replaced close to the quartz tube of radium , and they were kept in contact for six weeks .
At the end of that time examination again showed scarcely any difference between the two .
The one which had been near the radium might be a little the darker of the two , but the difference was too slight to enable me to speak positively .
Diamond B was now put inside a tube with radium bromide , the salt touching it on all sides , as it was thought possible that a screen of quartz might interfere with the passage of emanations which would act on the diamond .
The comparison diamond was kept removed from the emanations as before .
The experiment was continued for 78 days , when the two diamonds were again examined .
There was now a decided difference in colour between them ; diamond A was of its original pale yellow " off colour , " and diamond B was of a darker appearance and of a bluish-green tint , with no yellow colour apparent .
It thus appears that the property which radium emanations possess of darkening transparent bodies which they impinge upon\#151 ; a property very marked in the case of glass , and less with quartz\#151 ; also holds good in the case of diamond .
Diamond B was now heated to 50 ' C. in a mixture of strongest nitric acid and potassium chlorate for 10 days , the mixture being renewed each day .
At the end of this time the diamond had lost its dull surface colour , and was as bright and transparent as the other stone , but its tint had changed from yellow to a pale blue-green .
1904 .
] .
\#166 ; \#166 ; Radium Emanations on Diamond , " ' .
49 The radium emanations have therefore a double action on the diamond .
The / ?-rays ( electrons ) effect a superficial darkening , converting the surface into graphite in a manner similar to , but less strongly than , the more intense electrons in the cathode stream .
But the alteration of the body colour of the stone by emanations which are obstructed by the thinnest film of solid matter , even by a piece of thin paper , is not so easy to understand .
A superficial action might be expected , but not one penetrating through the whole thickness of the diamond .
I believe the alteration of colour is a secondary effect ; in presence of radium the diamond is extremely phosphorescent , and it continues to shine during the whole time of the experiment .
This constant state of vibration in which the diamond was kept for many weeks may have caused an internal change revealing itself in a change , of colour .
Indeed , it is not difficult to suppose that chemical as well as a physical action may result .
If the yellow colour is due to iron in the ferric state a reduction to the ferrous state would quite account for the change of colour to a pale blue-green .
This alteration of colour may be of commercial importance .
If " off colour''stones can be lightened their value will increase , while if the prolonged action of radium is to communicate to them a decided colour they would be worth much more as " fancy " stones .
[ AddedJune 16 , 1904.-\#151 ; After the 10 days ' heating in the above acid mixture the two diamonds were put together in a glass tube and carried about for 25 days , sometimes loose and sometimes in the tube .
They then were laid near together on a sensitive film in total darkness for 24 hours .
On developing , diamond B had impressed a strong image on the film , but only a very faint mark could be seen where the other diamond had been .
Probably this slight action was due to a little , radio-activity induced in A during its 25 days ' proximity to B. The experiment was then repeated for confirmation , allowing the diamonds to remain on the sensitive surface for only 5 hours .
On development , a good image of diamond B was seen , but not so black as in the former case .
The fact that diamond B was strongly radio-active after it had been away from radittm for 35 days , for 10 of which it was being heated in a mixture powerful enough to dissolve off its outer skin of graphite , seems to me proof that radio-activity is by no means a simple phenomenon .
It not merely consists in the adhesion of electrons or emanations , given off by radium , to the surface of an adjacent body , but the property is one involving deep-seated layers below the surface , and like the alteration of tint is probably closely connected with the intense phosphorescence the stone had been experiencing during its 78 days ' burial in radium bromide .
] VOL. LXXIV .
E

