1 .
" Researches on Organo-metallic Bodies .
" By E. FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chem-istry in Owens College , Manchester .
Second Mernoir.-Zincethyl .
Received February 9 , 1855 .
This compound , whose existence was mentioned in a previous memoir* , is formed by the action of zinc upon iodide of ethyl , or a mixture of iodide of ethyl and anhydrous ether , at a temperature exceeding 1000 C. The materials are enclosed in a copper digester capable of resisting great pressure .
When purified by rectification in an atmosphere of carbonic acid , zincethyl possesses the following properties:-At ordinary temperatures it is a colourless , transparent and mobile liquid , refracting light strongly and possessinrg a peculiar odour , rather pleasant than otherwise , and therefore differing greatly from that of zinemethyl .
Its specific gravity is 1P182 at 180 C. Exposed to a cold of -22 ?
C. it exhibits no tendency to become solid .
Zincethyl boils at 1180 C. , and distils unchange(l .
The specific gravity of its vapour is 4-251 .
Several alnalyses of zincetl ; yl prove its formula to be C4 H Zn .
The vapour volume of zincethyl is highly remarkable , and almost compels us to conclude that the vapour volume of the double atom of zinc is only equal to that of oxygen , instead of corresponding with the volume of hydrogen , in accordance with the generally received supposition .
Zincethyl , therefore , appears to belong to the so-called water type , and to consist of two volumes of ethyl and one volume of zinc vapour ; the three volumes being condensed to two : for if we were to assuime that an equivalent of zinc occupies the same vapour volume as an equivalent of hydrogen , we should then have the anomaly of the combination of equal volumes of two radicals being attelnded by condensation .
Although zincethyl is remarkable for the intense energy of its affinities , which place it nearly at the head of the list of electropositive bodies , yet it does not appear to be capable of forming any true compounds with electro-negative elements , its reactions being all double decompositions in which the constituents of the zincethyl separate .
Zincethyl is spontaneously inflammable in atmospheric air or oxygen ; but when a few drops , diluted with ether to prevent inflamination , are passed into a mercurial eudiometer containing dry atmospheric air , a rapid absorption of oxygen takes place , with the formation of a white amorphous solid composed of zinc , ethyl , and oxygen .
This reaction , which is also common to zincmethyl and zincamyl , led me to suppose that , like cacodyl , these bodies combined directly with oxygen ; but the results of a closer study of the action of oxygen upon zincethyl prove that Tio such coimpoiund is formed ; the w , hite body being etllylate of zinc , and containing no organo-metallic compound , in the strict sense of thie term .
The action of oxygen upon zincethyl is expressed in the following equati(n C4 H5 Zn }CH O=ZnO , The ethylate of zinc thus produced is decomposed by water into hydrated oxide of zinc and alcoholZnO C4H5 }0 C74 H50to Zincethyl is acted upon with great energy by iodine ; when the violence of the reaction is moderated , by the application of intense cold and the intervention of ether , the sole products are iodide of zinc and iodide of ethylC4H5Z C4 H51 I , I Jl ZnIZ .
Bromine acts with explosive violence on zincethyl , but the action may be moderated by adding the bromine in the form of diffused vapour and cooling to 00 C. The sole products of the reaction are then bromide of ethyl and bromide of zincC4HIIZnr C4HrfBr Br , Br Il Zn Br .
Zincethyl burns with a lurid flame sponitaneously in chlorine gas ; the zinc and hydrogen are converted into chlorides , whilst carbon is deposited in the form of soot .
I have not studied the products of a more moderate action , as it is difficult to bring the materials together without too great an elevation of temperature .
There can be nio doubt , however , that the moderated action of chlorine would be analogous to that of brominie or iodine , and that the products would be chloride of ethyl and chloride of zincCtH ) Zn =f CD4 HF ) C ' C C1 , C1J = Zn Cl. Carefully dried flowers of sulphur have only a slight action upon an ethereal solution of zincethyl , but the applicatio-n of a gentle heat suffices to produce a brisk reaction ; the sulphur gradually disappears , a white flocculent precipitate is formed , and a strong odour of sulphide of ethyl developed .
The chief product of this reaction is the double sulphide of ethyl and zinc ( niercaptide of zinc ) , which is produced as follows : C4HU Zn } =C H1 S+ZnS .
A little free sulphide of ethyl is also formedC4 IH5Zn = { C4IH5 S r7 s u Finally , zincethyl is decomposed by water into oxide of zine and hydride of ethylC4 H. Zn IC4JH5 H HO l Zn0 .
It is also similarly acted upon by the hydrated acids and by the hydrogen compounds of chlorine , bromine , iodine , fluorine and sulphur .
The behaviour of zincethyl in contact with the electro-negative elements is highly remarkable , and cannot fail to have an important influence upon our views of the condition of bodies at the moment of chemical change , -a subject so ably discussed by Brodie* , whose ingenious views I consider to receive a new sulpport in these reactions of zincethyl , by the singular way in which ethyl , a body low down in the electro-positive series , unites with oxygen , chlorine , &amp;c. , in the presence of a large excess of the intensely electro-positive zincethyl .
This behaviour also strikingly confirms the suggestions I ventured to make in my former memoirt , relative to the moleculosymmetrical form of organo-metallic compounds .
In the inorganic combinations of zinc , this metal unites with one atom only of other elements ; a very unstable peroxide , not hitherto isolated , being the only exception .
The atom of zinc appears , therefore , to have only one point of attraction , and hence , notwithstanding the intense affinities of its compound with ethyl , any union with a second body is necessarily attended by the expulsion of the ethyl .

