]\gt ; On the Influence of Collisions and of the Motion of Molecules in the Line of Sight , upon the Constitution of Spectrum Line By LoItD RAYLEIGH , O.M. , F.RS .
( Received July 1 , 1905 .
Apart from the above and other causes of disturbance , a line in the spectrum of a radiating gas would be infinitely narrow .
A good many years ago , connection with some estimates by Ebert , I investigated the widening of a line in consequence of the motion of molecules in the line of sight , taking as a basis Maxwell 's well-known law respecting the distribution of velocities among colliding molecules , and I calculated the number of inter- ference-bands to be expected , upon a certain supposition as to the of contrast between dark and bright parts necessary for visibility .
In this investigation no regard was paid to the collisions ; the vibrations issuing from each molecule being supposed to be maintained with complete regularity for an indefinite time .
little is known with certainty respecting the genesis of radiation , it has , been thought that collisions act as another source of disturbance .
The vibrations of a molecule are supposed to remain undisturbed while a free path is described , but to be liable to sudden and arbitrary alteration of phase amplitude when another molecule is encoumtered .
A limitation in the number of vibrations executed with regularity necessarily implies a certain indeterminateness in the frequency , that is a dilatation of the spectrum line .
In its nature this effect is independent of the Doppler example , it be diminished relatively to the latter if the molecules are smaller ; but the problem urally arises of calculating the conjoint action of both causes upon the constitution of a spectrum line .
This is the question considered by Mr. C. Godfrey in an interesting paper , upon which it is the principal object of the present note to comment .
The formulae at which he arrives are somewhat complicated , and they are discussed only in the case in which the density of the gas is reduced without limit .
According to my view this should cause the influence of the collisions to disappear , so that the results should coincide with those already referred to where the collisions were disregarded from the outset .
Nevertheless , the results of the two calculations differ by 10 per cent. , that of Mr. Godfrey giving a narrower spectrum line than the other .
PhiL Mag vol. 27 , p. 298 , 1889 ; 'Scientific Papen ; .
' vol. 3 , p. 268 .
" " On the Application of Double Integrals to Problems , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 195 , p. 329 , 1899 .
Influence of Collisio , etc. , on Spectrum Line .
441 The difference of 10 per cent. is not of much importance in itself , but a discrepancy of this kind involves a subject in a cloud of doubt , which it is desirable , if possible , to dissipate .
Mr. Godfrey himself characterises the discrepancy as paradoxical , and advances some considerations towards the elucidation of it .
I have a , which I think I expressed at the time , that the 1-per-cent .
correction is inadmissible , and that there should be no uity or discontinuity in passing to the limit of free paths infinitely .
In connection with some other work I have recently resumed the consideration of the question , and I am disposed to think that Mr. Godfrey 's calculation involves an error respecting the way in the various free paths are averaged .
The first question is as to the character of the spectrum line corresponding to a regular vibration which extends over a finite interval of time .
As the energy lying between the limits and of frequency ( or rather inverse wave-length ) , Mr. Godfrey finds from Fourier 's theorem denoting the finite length of the train of waves , and measured from that value which would be dominant if were .
For the total of all wave-lengths we have That the total energy should be proportional to is what we would expect .
The maximum coefficient in ( 1 ) occurs , of course , when , and is proportional to ; once proportional to on account of the total energy as given in ( 2 ) , and again on account of the greater condensation of the spectrum as increases .
Expression ( 1 ) may be taken to represent the spectrum of the radiation from a single molecule which describes in a iven direction and with a given velocity a free path proportional to ? .
If there be independent molecules wering to this description , may be introduced as a factor into ( 1 ) .
From this expression Mr. Godfrey proceeds to investigate the spectrum corresponding to the radiation of the gas , first for the different lengths ( r ) of parallel free paths described with constant velocity , and afterwards for the various component velocities across and in the line of , the latter giving rise to the Doppler effect .
It is with the first of these integrations that I am more particularly concerned .
In order to effect it , we need to know the probabilities of the various lengths of free path described with given velocity .
" " Now , Tait has shown Lord Rayleigh .
Infuen of [ July 1 , that , of all atoms with velocity , a fraction penetrates unchecked to distance is [ a functio1t of and of the permanent data of the .
From this we see that , of molecules moving with velocity , a fraction paths between and .
Now , such a molecule will emit an undisturbed train of waves of length between and where , and is the velocity of light .
Hence , of all molecules moving with velocity , a fraction will give free paths between and .
Returning to the expression ( 1 ) for the energy of a single train of length , we see that with the aggregates of molecules now under consideration ( definite thwart and ( velocities ) we have for a proportion of energy \ldquo ; or , on effecting the ration , .
( 3 ) The next steps are , over the various velocities , but it is not necessary to follow them here in detail , inasmuch as the objection which I have to take ises already .
It appears to me that what we are concerned with is not the momentary distribution of free paths among the molecules which are describing them , but rather the statistics of the various free paths ( described with velocity v ) which occur in a relatively time .
During this time various free occur with frequencies dependent on the lengths .
Fix the attention on two of these , one long and one short .
They present themselves in certain relative numbers , 01 say in a certain proportion , and it is with this proportion that we have to do .
The other procedure takes , as it were , an instantaneous view of the system and , surveying the molecules , inquires what proportions of them are pursuing free paths of the two lengths under contemplation .
It is not difficult to nise that this is a different question .
Of the paths which are scribed in a given period of time , an instantaneous survey is more likely to hit upon a one than upon a short one .
Thus Mr. Godfrey 's integration favours umduly the long paths .
The above consideration indicates that we to divide by previously to integration , that is , evaluate .
( 4 ) If we write Mr. Godfrey 's expression ( iii ) differs somewhat from ( 3 ) .
A appears to have been temporarily dropped , but this is not material for my present purpose .
1905 .
] Collisions , etc. , on the Constitution of Spectrum Line .
443 we find and Hence ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) in place of ( 3 ) .
It must be remarked , howevel , that an over-valuation of long paths relatively to shorter ones which all correspond to the same velocity would not of itself explain the screpancy ; for , when the gas is infinitely rare , all the paths must be considered to be infinitely , and then the proportion of relatively and shorter paths becomes a matter of indifference .
In fact ( 3 ) should give the correct result in the limit , even though it be of erroneous form as respects , provided a suitable function cf and be introduced as a actor .
If we integrate ( 3 ) as it stands with respect to between the limits - and , we obtain ( 6 ) But this should certainly be independent of .
I think that if we introduce the factor into ( 3 ) , Mr. Godfrey 's analysis would then lead to the same result as is obtained by neglecting the influence of collisions ab It may be convenient to recite the constitution and visibility of a spectrum line according to the simple theory , where the Doppler effect is alone regarded .
If be the velocity of a molecule in the line of sight , the number of molecules whose velocities in this direction lie between and is , by Maxwell 's theory , .
( 7 ) According to Doppler 's principle the reciprocal wave-length of the received from these molecules is changed from , corresponding to to , being the velocity of light .
If denote the variation of eciprocal wave-length , , and the distribution of light in the dilated spectrum line may be taken to be .
( 8 ) When this light forms interference-bands with relative retardation , the " " visibility\ldquo ; accorded to Iichelson 's reckoning is expressed by 444 Influence of Molecular Collisions , etc. , on a Spectrum Linc .
that is If be the velocity of mean square , on which the pressure of the gas depends , .
( 10 ) In terms of the exponent in ( 8 ) is , ( 11 ) and that in ( 9 ) is ( 12 )

