The reading of the paper , entitled , l &lt; Observations on the Theory of Respiration .
" By William Stevens , M.D. D.C.L. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Copenhagen , and of Surgeons of London .
Communicated by W. T. Brand , Esq. , V.P.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
From the fact that no carbonic acid gas is given out by venous blood when that fluid is subjected to the action of the air-pump , former experimentalists had inferred that this blood contains no carbonic acid .
The author of the present paper contends that this is an erroneous inference ; first , by showing that serum , which had been made to absorb a considerable quantity of this gas , does not yield it upon the removal of the atmospheric pressure ; and next , by adducing several experiments in proof of the strong attraction exerted on carbonic acid both by hydrogen and by oxygen gases , which were found to absorb it readily through the medium of moistened mem ?
bran .
By means of a peculiar apparatus , consisting of a doublenecked bottle , to which a set of bent tubes were adapted , he ascer ?
tained that venous blood , agitated with pure hydrogen gas , and al ?
lowed to remain for an hour in contact with it , imparts to that gas a considerable quantity of carbonic acid .
The same result had , in ?
deed , been obtained , in a former experiment , by the simple applica ?
tion of heat to venous blood confined under hydrogen gas ; but on account of the possible chemical agency of heat , the inference drawn from that experiment is less conclusive than from experiments in which the air-pump alone is employed .
The author found that , in like manner , atmospheric air , by remaining , for a sufficient time , in contact with venous blood , on the application of the air-pump , acquires carbonic acid .
The hypothesis that the carbon of the blood attracts the oxygen of the air into the fluid , and there combines with it , and that the carbonic acid thus formed is afterwards exhaled , appears to be inconsistent with the fact that all acids , and carbonic acid more especially , impart to the blood a black colour ; whereas the immediate effect of exposing venous blood to atmospheric air , or to oxygen gas , is a change of colour from a dark to a bright scarlet , implying its conversion from the venous to the arterial character : hence the author infers that the acid is not formed during the experiment in question , but already exists in the venous blood , and is extracted from it by the atmospheric air .
Similar experiments made with oxygen gas , in place of atmospheric air , were attended with the like results , but in a more striking degree 3 and tend therefore to corroborate the views entertained by the author of the theory of re ?
spiration .
According to these views , it is neither in the lungs , nor generally in the course of the circulation , but only during its passage through the capillary system of vessels , that the blood undergoes the change from arterial to venous ja change consisting in the formation of carbonic acid , by the addition of particles of carbon derived from the solid textures of the body , and which had combined with the oxy ?
gen supplied by the arterial blood : and it is by this combination that heat is evolved , as well as a dark colour imparted to the blood .
The author ascribes , however , the bright red colour of arterial blood , not to the action of oxygen , which is of itself completely inert as a co ?
louring agent , but to that of the saline ingredients naturally contained in healthy blood .
On arriving at the lungs , the first change induced on the blood is effected by the oxygen of the atmospheric air , and consists in the removal of the carbonic acid , which had been the source of the dark colour of the venous blood 3 and the second con ?
sists in the attraction by the blood of a portion of oxygen , which it absorbs from the air , and which takes the place of the carbonic acid .
The peculiar texture of the lungs , and the elevation of temperature in warm-blooded animals , concur in promoting the rapid production of these changes .
May 28 , 1835 .
Sir BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE , Bart. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the Influence of the Tricuspid Valve of the Heart on the Circulation of the Blood/ ' By Thomas Wilkinson King , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Tho ?
mas Bell , Esq. , F.R.S.

