156 Mr. F. W. Twort .
Method for Isolating and [ Sept. 30 , [ Note added October 20th , 1910.\#151 ; Dr. Sidebotham , of the Public Health Laboratory , Manchester , has kindly identified the chromogenic organism worked with in the above experiments .
He describes it as follows:\#151 ; Bacillus , non-motile , no cilia ; size , 2 / / , x 0-5 ; often in pairs , no chains .
Grows best at 22 ' 0 .
; growth ceases at 30 ' C. ; grain negative .
A. P. B.\#151 ; Greenish yellow ; smooth growth .
G- .
P. B.\#151 ; Growth all round stab ; growth spreads on surface ; central raised pale yellow projection , surrounded by pale pink smooth area ; gelatine very slowly liquefied .
Potato.\#151 ; Very bright lemon-yellow ; irregular knobby growth .
Milk.\#151 ; Colour , brown to pale brown ; no acid change .
The characteristics seem to be similar to those of B. ( Zimmermann ) .
The above characteristics have also been observed by one of us ( G. J. F. ) in the case of an organism regularly occurring in an experimental filter dealing with liquids containing phenolic compounds .
] A Method for Isolating and Growing the Lepra Bacillus of Man .
( .Preliminary Note .
) By F. W. Twort .
( Communicated by Leonard Hill , F.R.S. Received September 30 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1910 .
) ( From the Laboratories of the Brown Institution , University of London .
) For a number of years different investigators have attempted to cultivate the lepra bacillus of man and the allied organisms found in the rat and other animals .
It is not intended in this preliminary note to discuss the numerous papers which have been published from time to time from the various English , Continental , and American laboratories .
These papers deal with non acid-fast bacilli , or with acid-fast bacilli growing quickly on ordinary media , which , in the opinion of the writer , are contaminating organisms , and not the true lepra bacillus .
So far , no one has produced a culture of acid-fast bacilli isolated from a leper , and showing the characters of the lepra bacillus as found in the tissues of man .
It was with the object of obtaining a pure living culture of the lepra bacillus that these investigations were undertaken .
1910 .
] ] Gro wing the Lepra Bacillus of Man .
The material used was the nasal discharge and scrapings from a typical leper .
The discharge showed large masses of lepra bacilli and a number of contaminating micro-organisms .
Firstly , most of the contaminations were killed by placing the discharge in a 2-per-cent , solution of ericolin at 38 ' C. for one hour as recommended for the isolation of the tubercle bacillus* ; then cultures were made from the sediment on to different media and incubated at 38 ' C.f All the ordinary laboratory media , including Dorset 's egg medium , gave negative results .
A number of special media containing extracts of fresh gland and other tissues were tested next , the extracts being freed from any contaminating micro-organisms by passing them through a Doulton white filter ; these also gave negative results .
In view of the close relationship between the tubercle bacillus and the lepra bacillus , it appeared highly probable that these two organisms would require the same chemical substances for building up their protoplasm , which could be elaborated from the ordinary media only by the tubercle bacillus .
It was thought that if these substances could be supplied , already formed , to the lepra bacillus , it might grow , and the easiest method of supplying these substances would be by adding to some good medium the ground-up bodies of tubercle bacilli containing them .
Accordingly , a number of tubercle cultures were taken and inoculated on to Dorset 's egg medium ; when sufficiently grown the tubes were steamed and the growth of tubercle scraped off the surface , care being taken to avoid the medium containing the waste products of the tubercle growth .
The tubercle bacilli so obtained were ground up with glycerine and saline , steamed for half an hour and added to the yolk and white of new laid eggs in the following proportions:\#151 ; Eggs , 75 parts ; 8 per cent , sodium chloride , 25 parts ; mix well and add tubercle bacilli , 1 per cent. ; and glycerine , 5 per cent. , or less .
The medium was placed in test tubes , heated to 60 ' C. for one hour , and on the following morning incubated at 38 ' C. for six hours , and again heated in water bath at 60 ' C. for one hour , and set in slopes at 85 ' C. The ericolinised nasal discharge of a leper was inoculated on to this medium , the inoculated tubes being capped with gutta-percha tissue and incubated at 38 ' C. After 24 hours the medium absorbed a quantity of the ericolin , so the material was lifted off with a platinum loop and rubbed over fresh tubes .
The bacilli grew and were sub-cultured in pure growth , the bacilli growing in sub-cultures as fairly long thin beaded rods ; the bacilli were * Twort , 'Proc .
Boy .
Soc. , ' B , 1909 , vol. 81 .
+ Subsequent experiments have shown that 37 ' is a better temperature ( November 19 , 1910 ) .
VOL. LXXXIII.\#151 ; B. N 158 Isolating and Growing the Lepra Bacillus of Man .
well formed and quite acid-fast .
The lepra bacillus inoculated on to this medium at first grows extremely slowly , but later growth becomes faster , marked microscopic evidence being obtained in about four weeks .
To the naked eye , growth is only just visible after about six weeks , appearing as a colourless film along the needle track .
Attempts to sub-culture on to ordinary laboratory media are always negative .
Experiments are now being carried out , using other organisms than the tubercle bacillus for making the medium , and also testing various microorganisms on the medium .
In the near future it is hoped to prepare a vaccine from the ground-up lepra bacilli , for the treatment of man suffering from leprosy .
An attempt to grow the rat lepra bacillus on the same medium will also be made if the material can be obtained .
In conclusion , I may note that , working with Mr. Ingram , I have also succeeded in isolating and growing the acid-fast bacillus found in the intestine of cows in Johne 's disease .
The first generation of this bacillus grows often long , with occasional branching and club formation , in subcultures it gradually grows smaller , and in the second or third generation is about the size of the tubercle bacillus .
The growth is only just visible to the naked eye , and sub-cultures on the ordinary laboratory media show no evidence of multiplication .
Johne 's bacillus grows somewhat more easily than Hansen 's lepra bacillus ; the bacilli being well formed and quite acid-fast .
The cultures were incubated at 40 ' C. It is hoped , when sufficient material is obtained , to prepare a vaccine for diagnostic purposes .
Further details of these experiments will be published later .

