1885 .
] The Force Function in Crystals .
65 It will be seen at once that this is an extension of Poisson 's solution of the equation There is only one arbitrary function ^ at dxi in my solution , and only one in Poisson 's , as thus treated .
But he has given one with two arbitrary functions , and I believe a similar investigation would apply to my general equations if the equation , any+bnv~1+ . .
._ an/ 1+(3n\gt ; *\#151 ; 1+ . . .
were solved with regard to ( n ) , and thus n found in terms of ( m ) .
III .
" The Force Function in Crystals .
" By Alfred Einhorn , Ph. D. Communicated by G. Matthey , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of the paper which appears at present restricts itself to the consideration of the Tesseral , Tetragonal , and Rhombic systems .
By means of a well founded assumption in regard to the stress-distribution in crystals of the above systems , the equilibrium conditions are deduced which further involve that the boundary of the configuration must either be plane or spherical. .
It also appears that the statical conditions of the agency which causes crystallisation are the same as those so well investigated for gravitation and electricity .
The paper is divided into three chapters .
The first chapter treats of the " Foundation of the Assumption .
" The assumption is that the stress upon any particle can only be transmitted in six directionlines respectively at right angles in pairs to the three crystallographic axes\#151 ; it is a consequence of the internal structure which is shown to be analogous to that of an ordinary cannon-ball pile by means of the cleavage properties , the external form and inertia relations of crystals .
The second chapter\#151 ; " Derivation of the Force Function " \#151 ; applies the three general differential equilibrium equations of an elastic solid subject to internal forces to the stated stress-distribution .
In order to effect this it was necessary to deduce some peculiarities of the force function in a system of uniform density in equilibrium , and subject to internal forces when referred to the three principal axes of inertia through the mass centre .
The character of the attracting agency here becomes evident .
The third heading , " Determination of the Boundary .
" Under this VOL. XXXVIII .
f 66 Mr. J. J. Thomson .
On so Applications of [ Jan. 8 , 1 heading the nature of the boundary is determined , and is shown to be either plane or spherical .
And by the application of Green 's theorem it also becomes clear that inasmuch as the statical conditions of the crystallising agent are how understood , the force functions derived in the preceding chapter can be independently deduced without aid of the assumption from any one of the primitive forms of the systems under consideration .
IY .
" On some Applications of Dynamical Principles to Physical Phenomena .
" By J. J. Thomson , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , and Cavendish Professor of Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received December 16 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper an attempt is made to apply dynamical principles to study some of the phenomena in electricity , magnetism , heat , and elasticity .
The matter ( including , if necessary , the ether ) which takes part in any phenomenon is looked upon as forming a material system , and the motion of this system is investigated by means of general dynamical methods , Lagrange 's equations being the method most frequently used .
To apply this method , it is necessary to have coordinates which can fix the configuration of the system , so in the first part of the paper coordinates are introduced which fix the configuration of the system , so far as the phenomena we are considering are concerned , i.e. , we introduce coordinates which can fix the geometrical , the electrical , the magnetic , the heat , and the strain configuration of the system ; we call these , coordinates of the as , u , and w types respectively .
Some of these coordinates only enter the expression for the kinetic energy through their differential coefficients , and may be called gyroscopic coordinates , as such coordinates are of frequent occurrence in problems about gyroscopes .
The terms which involve the x , y , z , u , and w coordinates in the expression for the kinetic energy will be of fifteen different types .
There will be those terms which are quadratic functions of the differential coefficients of the x coordinates , and corresponding terms for the y , z , u , and w coordinates ; so that there are in this set terms of five different types , all of which may exist in actual dynamical systems .
There are ten types of terms involving the products of differential coefficients of two coordinates of different ' kinds .
These types are considered in order , and it is shown that we have experimental evidence for the existence of only two of them , viz. ,

