]\gt ; Mr. J. M. Heppel on the Theory of Continuous Beams .
lowing manner : the curve determined by the equation be traced in the first quadranl , every straight line parallel to the axis of meets the once , and only once , and every straight line parallel to the axis of and at a greater distance from it than , meets the curve once , and only once .
vanishes with , the meets the axis ofp at right angles ; and from Art .
15 it follows that when and are indefinitely great , the angle which the tangent to the curve makes with the axis of is very nearly a right aIlgle .
Thus , for sm values of the curve is concave to the axis of , and for vely large values of the curve is to the axis ofp ; so that the curve must have a point or points of inflexion .
24 .
In the very careful account of Ivory 's mathematical researches , which is given in the fourth volume of the ' Abstracts of the Papers . . .
of the Royal Society , ' it is said , with respect to 's theorem , " " In a paper in the Transactions for 1838 , Mr. Ivory has with great elegance demonstrated this .
theorem , and has given , with greater detail than its authors had entered on , several statements regarding the limitations of the proportions of the axes The language is cautious , but seems to imply some suspicion with regard to the accuracy of the statements .
As we have now seen , many of Ivory 's statements are inaccurate , and though accurate , are based on unsound reasoning .
On the Theory of Continuous l ; cams.\ldquo ; By JOHN IIORTIMER HEPPEL , M. Inst. C.E. Communicated by Prof. W. J. MACQU0RN RANKINE .
Received December 9 , 1869* .
In venturing to present to the Royal Society a paper on a subjcct which has engaged the attention , more especially in France , of some of the most eminent engineers and writers on Iical P , the feels it to be incumbent on him to state the nature of the claim to ttention which he hopes it may be found to possess in poiot of originality or improvement on the method of To do this clenrly , however , it will be ecessary to advcrt to the principal steps by which progress in the vledge of this subject been made , both in France and in this country .
The theory of continuous beams appears to hare first attracted attention in rnnce about 1825 , when a method of determining all the conditions of eqnilibrium of a straight beam of uniform section throughout , on any number of level supports at any distances apart , each span being loaded uniformly , but the iform loads itrying in any nner from to another , was investigated and published by M. Navier .
This method , although perfectly exact for the assumed objectionuble from the great 1 bour and of the ] aticns it tlUltry 2 See .
p. 1 .
J. .
Heppel on the Theory of Continuous Iessrs .
Iolinos and Pronnier , in their vork e1ltitled ' Traite The'orique et Pratique de la construction des Ponts Me'lalliques , ' describe this process fully , and show that for a of openings , the solution must be effected of equations , involring as mauy unknown quantities , these equations being themselves of a complex character ; and they observe , " " to find the curve of the moments of rupture for a of 6 spans 19 equations must be operated on ; such calculatious would be , and when the number of spanls is at all considerable this method must be abandoned The nethod of M. Navy ] .
, however , remaiued the one ailable till about 1849 , when M. Clapeyrou , Ingeuieur des lIines , ftnd Member of the Academy of Sciences , being charged with the construction of the Pont d'Asnieres , a idge of five continuous spans over the } Paris , applied himself to seek some more mauageable process .
He appears to have perceived ( and so far as the writer is informed , to have been the first to perceive ) that if the bending moments over the supI ) orts at the ends of any span were as well as the amount and distribution of the load , the entire mechanical condition of this portion of the beam would become known just as if it were an independent beam .
Upon this M. Clapeyron proceeded to form a set of equations involving as unknown quantities the bending moments over the } ) ports , with } to their determination .
He found himself , however , obliged to troduce iuto these equations a second set of unknown quautities ( ' ' inconnues auxiliaires being the inclinations of the deflection curve at the points of support , and not having at a general method of these latter , was obliged to operate in each case on a number of equations equal to twice the number of spans .
M. ] does not appear , as yet , to have made any formal publication of his method , but to have used it in his own practice , and communicated it fr to those with whom he came in contact .
In 1856 , M. Bertot , Inge'nieur , appe , ars to found the meaus of eliminating this second set of unknown quantities in number for bridge of spans , and thus reducing the number of equations to Each of these equations involved as unknown quantities the bending moments over three consecutive supports , and considered , from its remarkable symmetry and simplicity , to merit a distinctive nnme , that of " " The Theorem of the three lIoments The method , however , to which this theorem is the , is still where called th of M. Clapeyron , and , as it ) ears to the writer , justly so , as it an immediate and simple result from his .
Bertot was well acquainted .
The next important advance was made in 1861 , M. Professeur de canique applique'e l'Ecole ) rialc des Ponts et Chausse'es , completed the matter of the olume of his course , which is exclusively devoted to is subject* .
BlesseeXI ) ] aius m de * Tbis was commumicated to the ) in lc II ] was not published lill ) ) .
58 Mr. J. M. Heppel on the Theory of Continuous Beams .
monstrates the theorem of the three moments , at the knowledge of which he had himself arrived from M. Clapeyron 's investigations , independently of M. Bertot .
He then goes on to the investigation of an equation of much greater generality , in which what is termed by English writers " " imperfecC continuity\ldquo ; is taken into account , being , however , there replaced by the precisely equivalent notion of original differences of level in the supports , the beam being always supposed primitively straight ; besides this the loads , instead of being taken as uniform for each span , are considered as ibuted in any given manner .
Having obtained this fundamental equation , M. Bresse proceeds to investigate the nature of the curves , which are the envelopes of the greatest bending moments at each point , by the most unfavourable distribution of the load in reference to it , and finally gives tables for the ready calculation of results in a great variety of cases , comprising most of those likely to occur in practice .
During the time that M. Bresse was engaged in these researches , an mperial Commission was formed , of which he was a member , for the purpose of ising rules applicable to practice , and the resuIts of his labours have been the basis of legislative enactments equivalent to our Board of Trade regulations prescribing the methods to be followed in determining the stresses in the various parts of the structure .
About the same time that M. Bresse turned his attention to this subject , it appears also to have engaged that of M. Belanger , who in his work entitled ' Theory de la Resistance et de la Flexion Plane des Solides \amp ; c. , Paris , 1862 , ' gives a very complete demonstration\mdash ; resulting in an equation which in one point of view is slightly more general than that of M. Bresse , as it takes in variation of the moment of inertia of the sectio1 ) from one span to another .
In another point of view its generality is slightly less , as it deaIs only 1vith loads distributed over each separate span uniformly , whereas M. Bresse replaces the simple algebraical terms expressing these by definite integrals expressing the load as a function of the distauce from one of the points of support .
As far as the writer is informed , little has been done in France to advance this theory beyond the point to which it was brought by the wl.iters last mentioned , and especially by M. Bresse ; but valuable contributions to its development in reference to application to practice are to be found in the work of MM .
Molinos and Pronnier above referred to , as well as in arious papers by MM .
Renaudot , Albaret , Colignon , Piarron de Mondesir , \amp ; c. In England little or no attention appears to have been paid to this subject by writers on mechanics till 1843 , when the Rev. Heury loseley , Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy at King 's College , London , published his work on The Mechanical Principles of Engineering and Architecture .
' In part 5 of this work , which treats of the strength of materials , four cases of continuous ) eams are fully investigated , and the .
J. M. Heppel on the of Continuous Beams .
general case is to a certain extent discussed , the method of M. Navier being perhaps rather indicated than fully developed .
Prof. Moseley 's work was altogether a most valuable contribution to engineering science , and , as far as the present subject is concerned , no doubt furnished the groundwork of the method applied by Mr. Pole to the solution of other particular but more complex and ] cases .
The first case which engaged the attention of .
Pole appears to have been that of the bridge over the Trent at Torksey , consisting of two spans of continuous tubular beams , resting on abutments and a central pier .
For special reasons it had become necessary that the real conditions of equilibrium of this bridge should be investigated with more than ordinary precision ; and this Mr. Pole did by a method virtually identical with that of M. Navier , though it does not appear that he had any previous knowledge of that method , except through the medium of Moseley 's work .
Throughout Moseley 's cases , however , the load ou the beam is considered as distributed uniformly over its entire length , whereas Mr. Pole had to deal with the case of different loads on the two spans , and no doubt had to devise the method of analysis nccessary for its treatment .
Mr. Pole 's paper on this subject is published in vol. ix .
of the ' Minutes of Proceediugs Inst. Civ .
En .
' 1849-50 .
As far as this went , however , it could hardly be considered to have advanced the theory of the subject , as M. Navier 's method included this case , and much more ; but about the same time Mr. Pole had to investigate the case of a much larger work , the Britannia Bridge , where he had to deal with some new conditions , which , as far as the vriter is aware , were then for the first time successfully treated .
These were that , besides variation of load on the different spans , their cross sections also varied , and there was imperfect continuity over the centre pier , that is to say , that the points of support being supposed to range in a straight line , the beam if relieved from all would cease to remain in contact with them all , and would consist of two equal straight portions , forming an angle pointing upwards .
The process , which for distinction may be called of M. Navier , was skilfully extended by Mr. Pole so as to include these new circumstances , and by its means results were obtained certainly true within a very small limit , and as near the absolute truth as any existing means of treating the subject would produce .
Mr. Pole 's researchcs on this subject are published in Mr. Edwin Clark 's on the Britannia and Conway Bridges , .
Both from the and treatment of the case and the record of the numerous and delicate observations by which the theoretical conclusions vere continually verified and kept in check , they are most strongly to be recommended to the attention of engineers having to deal with orks of this character .
sequence of events now compels the writcr to advert to some studies of his own .
In 1858-59 , being then Chief Engineer of the Madras RailMr .
J. .
Heppel on the Confinuous way , he had occasion to investigate the conditions of a bridge of five continuous spans over the River Palar .
Having in India no books to efer to but those of Moseley and Edwin Clark , he found himself unable to extend the treatment of the cases there given to that of a beam with an increased number of and rying loads .
After many attempts and failures , the same idea occurred to him which appears to have struck M. Clapeyron nine or ten years before , that if the bending inoments over the supports were known , the lvhole conditions would become known .
Following this clue , he was ortunate enough to succeed in at once eliminating the other unknown quantities , lvhich M. Clapeyron had been obliged to retain in his equations for many years after his original discovery of the method , and thus to arrive at an cquation precisely identical with that which had been first published in France by M. Bertot in 1856 , and known the " " Theorem of the three Moments This was snfficient for the immediate purpose , as the beams in question were straight and of uniform section throughout , conditions to which this theorem is strictly applicable without any modification whatever .
As , , the writer was at this time under the that he was using au entirely new mode of analysis , he was naturally anxious to its results by ison lvith those obtained in some case by other means .
Fortunately he had at hand that of the Britannia erhaps the best that could have ) selected ; but for this purpose it became necessary to import into the fundamental equation the conditions of varying sections iu the different spans and imperfect continuity .
This , however , presented 110 great difficulty , and by means of an equation thus modified , he had the satisfaction of lciug all Mr. Pole 's results , and thus incing himself of the trustworthiness of the method in question .
rfhe equation thus generalized is absolutely identical with that arl.ived at by in the vork above referred t It would pear , } , that the theory of this lbject was independently advanced to about the same state of perfection in ance and iu as l.egards the development of its application to practice no doubt much the more been done in the former country .
The writer will now advert to some inherent defects of this theory , the cure of which is the object of the investigation which folIows .
chief one , ich is admitted by all writers on the subject , is the lecessity for supposing the moment .
of inertia of the section constant each spau ; more general hypothesis , it is said , would render the calculation inextricable .
Still it is certain that the conclusions arrived at on the hypothesis of a constant section cease to be true if a val.iation of section is introduced , and the amount of error thereby induced , though considered to probably small , is still a matter of uncet.taintv .
The uext defect is the assumplion of of load throughout : A papcl ' snbject by the writer of Inbt . .
vol. xix , .
J. .
fIeppel on the of each span ; for as far as load is concerned no more correct hypothesis could be made , the weight of the bridge itself , if a one , usually varies considerably in the different parts of the same span .
The equation by M. Bresse , as been stated , provides for certain kinds of variable loads by the use of integraIs , but the writer is not me that they have been applied , by that author himself , to the purposes of calculation , and it secms to him that in most cases the attempt to such an application would be beset with difficuIties .
It will , however , it is hoped , be seen from lvhat follows , that the dealing with rariations of the above elements does not in fact plesent any formidable difficulty , though no doubt the 1 bour of calculation is greater ; but what the lvriter regards as most is ] differcuce in the results in the case of Britannia ( where tions greatly exceed in amount those whether obt , ined by the approximate method therto followed , or by the more one to be explained , a strong presumption that in all ordinary the former method may be confidently employed without lisk of any important error .
Should the following treatment of the cnsc be deemed snccessful , the author would that its success is mainly due to the use of an abbrcviated notation , by a degrce of clearnc-ss and mmetry is preserved in expressions which would otherwise becomc inextricably complex .
General Investigation of the Bending Jfoments and of Continuous Beams .
Let 1 .
2 represent auy span of a continuous beam , the length of the span being x. ?
the coordinates of the deflection , the at point 1 .
and ) articular of of the products of the nloments of inertia of the sections the spaces 1 .
, , , bout their neutral axes , by the of sticity of the matcrial .
londs per unit of in the ) tallgeilt of tion of } at 1 , to line join .
ing 1 .
2 , its ] ) itive value being taken at 1 .
2 .
shearing foree at 1 .
Now let the bending motiTent / and be called , be between be ; Mr. J. M. Hcppcl on the of Continuous Beams .
and let the part of this bending moment , which results alone from the load on the beam between 1 and , be called between 1and a , between and , between and 2 ; and let the first and second integrals of these functions , as of , be denoted by , , and , and the value of auy one , as , for a particular value of , as by ; then , .
( 1 ) , .
( 2 ) .
( 3 ) Also , from equality of moments about the point , .
( 4 ) , . .
( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) and , from equality of moments about the point 2 , .
( 7 ) Substitntiog for in ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) , , ( S ) , ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) equations from which for a given value of may be deterrrlined if and are known .
From the nature of the deflection curve , from lto ; from to ; ( 1 Mr. J. M. Hcppel on the of Continuous Beams .
from to ; ( 13 ) from 1 to , when ; ; ( 14 ) from to ; . . .
( 15 ) making in ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) , and transposing , ; ; ( 16 ) from to 2 , ; . . . . . . . .
making in 16 ) and 17 ) , and transposing , ; ; .
( 18 ) lto , no constant ; for if .
( 19 ) from to ; ( 20 ) making in 19 ) and ( 20 ) , and transposing , ; from to 2 , making in ( 21 ) and ( 22 ) , and transposing , . . . . . . .
From the way in which this last equation is formed , it is evident thnt if 64 .
J. M. Heppel on the Tlieory of Continuous Beams .
If , , the formation of the functions \amp ; c. be examined , it is evident that this equation may be written A and known functions of \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , and is a known fumction of the same , and , \amp ; c. If the adjacent span to the left be now considered , it is evident that a precisely similar equation may be obtained , which may be written ; adding writing , which is as it is the tnngent of the small angle which the neutritl lines of the spans lvould make at the point 1 if relieved from all load , which be writtetl ; simil for other bearing points in succession , \amp ; .
, where the .
of equations is two less than that of thities Mr. J. M. Heppel on the Theory of Conhnuous Beams .
65 \amp ; c. .
so that if two of these are known the rest may be determined .
But the first and last are always known , being usually each .
Therefore they may be determined .
This being so , the bending moment at any point may be found from equations ( 8 ) , ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) and others of the same form ; and the deflection may be found from equations ( 19 ) , ( 21 ) , , and others of the same form , regard being had to the interval of the beam in which the point under examination lies .
If , now , we suppose that abc\amp ; c. , equation ( 25 ) reduces to ; similarly , ; , , writing for Clearing of fractions and transposing , . . .
an equation which was given by the author in his paper before referred to , and which is nearly identical with the general equation of M. Bresse , and for difference of notation pl'ecisely so with of M. Belanger .
If and , which is the case of a straight beam of uniform section throughout , , . . . .
which is the equation generally known as the theorem of the three moments .
If in equation we put , it becomes ; .
mnd for the central deflection equation becomes .
( 29 ) ( 30 ) VOL. XIX .
66 Mr. J. M. Heppel on the Theory of Continuous Beams .
and central deflection from equation ( 21 ) , If we put and central deflection from equation ( 23 ) , As an example of the application of the foregoing method to the purposes of calculation , let the case of the Britannia Bridge be , and let the large span be supposed to be divided into five , } the small span into three equal parts , and let the moments of inertia of the sections and loads per unit oflength be supposed constant lvithin each part and equal to their mean values .
Mr. J. M. Heppel on the Theory of Continuous Beams .
We have then the following data:\mdash ; In spans ( 1 .
2 ) and 1 .
, ; ; ; In span ( 2 .
1 ) , ; ; ; from symmetry of loading equation ( 30 ) and ( to ) allS ( and ( 1 .
2 ) respectively , and and by adding them , we tain ; and applying equation 32 to span ( 2 .
1 ) , whence Taking these values of and , and applying equation ( 33 ) to the calculation of the deflection at the middle of the large span , inches .
If , now , the values of , and be calculated from equations ( 26 ) and ( 19 ) , on the supposition that the moments of inertia of the section and the loads are constant throughout each span and equal to their mean values , they are which are almost identical with the values ascertained by Mr. Pole .
If the varintion of section alone be considered , load being taken at its mean value , It therefore appears that the amount of in the section and load which occurs each span of the Britnnnia taken strictly into account , ) roduces scarcely any effect on the values of the bending moments and ctions , which are ) ractically the same as those from their mean alues considered constant ; and it may be Dr. W. J. M. Rankine on Mr. Heppet 's considered as demonstrated that , for most ordinary cases of large bridges , calculations founded on equation may be confidently relied on .
It need scarcely be remarked that these much more simple and easy than those founded on the more exact but complex equations above given .
In smaller bridges , however , the error of the approximate ocess will be more considerable , and the process above given may be applied with advantage to its colrection .
In concluding this paper , the author desires to record his thanks to his young friend , Mr. Henry Reilly , for the patience and skill with which he made , in detail , all the intricate calcuIations of the numerical values of the various functions involved in the above demonstration .
" " Remarks on Mr. Heppel 's Theory of Continuous Beams By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , .D .
, F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1869* .
1 .
Condensed form of stating the Theory.\mdash ; The advantages possessed by Mr. Heppel 's method of treating the mathematical problem of the state of stress in a continuous beam will probably cause it to be used both in practice and in scientific study .
The manner in which the theory is set forth in Mr. Heppel 's paper is remarkably clear and satisfactory , especially as the several steps of the algebraical investigation correspond closely with the steps of the arithmetical calculations which will have to be performed in applying the method to practice .
Still it appears to me that , for the scientific study of the principles of the method , and for the instruction of students in engineering science , it may be desirable to have those principles expressed in a condensed form ; and with that view I have drawn up the following meant ofthem , which is virtually not a new investigation , but Mr. Heppel 's investigation abridged .
Let and be the coordinates of two adjacent points of support of a continuous beam , being horizontal .
Let and the vertical forces be positive downwards .
At a given point in the span between those points let be the load per unit of span , and EI the stiffness of the cross-section , of which functions may be uniform or variable , continuous or discontinuous .
In each of the following double and quadruple definite integrals , Jet the lower limits be ; ( 1 ) When the integrations extend over the whole span , that will be denoted by affixing 1 ; for example , \amp ; c. Read January 27 , 1870 .
See vol. xviii .
p. 178 .

