182 A Contribution to the Study of the Mechanism of , with Especial Reference to the Action of the Vertebral Column and Diaphragm .
By J. F. Halls Dally , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
( Communicated by Professor Sir T. Clifford Allbutt , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 24 , \#151 ; Read February 6 , 1908 .
) In studying the alterations which occur in the shape , size , and position of the internal organs as the result of their functional activity , previous observers have worked at a disadvantage .
During the past nine years X-rays methods , though indicating an advance in our knowledge of abdominal and thoracic visceral movements , have not been of absolute utility , since the rays , being divergent , produce magnification of the shadow of the object .
Hence , exact measurements have been unattainable .
In the present investigation the chief results have been obtained by means of Groedel 's orthodiagraph , which Dr. Hugh Walsham and myself have been the first , to our knowledge , to work with in this country , and of which we have already published a detailed description.* By means of this instrument it is possible , with almost mathematical accuracy , to measure motionless objects which lie in a plane parallel with the vertical transverse plane of the body , and to measure moving objects with greater approach to exactitude than can be obtained in any other manner .
Summary of the Results of the Investigation .
I. Results obtained by Orthodiagraphic Measurement of Changes in the Trunk which occur during Respiration .
One hundred healthy subjects , of ages A'arying between 15 and 35 , were examined , the average measurements being recorded as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The neck is shortened 10 mm. , and widened , on the right side 9 mm. , on the left side 7 mm. ( 2 ) The shoulders are raised on the right side to a greater extent than on the left , the average on the right being 16 mm. , that on the left 14 mm. ( 3 ) The presternum moves 30 mm. in an upward , and 14 mm. in a forward , diameter .
( 4 ) The clavicles execute a combined upward , forward , and outward * ' Brit. Med. .Tourn .
, ' September 14 , 1907 , p. 651 .
On the Study of the Mechanism , etc. 183 movement , the vertical range of their inner ends on the right side being 28 mm. , on the left side 27 mm. ; of their outer ends , on the right side 21 mm. , on the left side 16 mm. The divergence from the median line is , on the right side 7 mm. , on the left side 6 mm. ( 5 ) The meso-metasternal articulation either may remain in the same horizontal plane , or may rise as much as 46 mm. The average ascent is 28 mm. ( 6 ) Widening of the infra-costal angle occurs , the interval between the costal margins , measured on each side at a level of 30 mm. below the meso-metasternal articulation , being increased by 26 mm. ( 7 ) The trunk is widened at the level of the meso-metasternal plane 9 mm. on the right side , and 8 mm. on the left , and midway between the meso-metasternal plane and lowest point of the costal margin 9 mm. on the right side , and 11 mm. on the left .
( 8 ) The umbilicus is retracted and drawn upwards in deep respiration for a distance of 13 mm. , on account of the active recession of the abdominal wall produced by the contraction of the abdominal muscles , which , in this phase of respiration , act as antagonists of the spinal muscles .
The upward displacement of the umbilicus is usually to the right , but may be median or to the left , the lateral deviation being 7 mm. ( 9 ) The heart and pericardium together undergo important changes in size and position as a result of the respiratory movements , being lengthened and narrowed in inspiration , shortened and widened during expiration .
( 10 ) The pericardium , at the level of its attachment to the central tendon in the adult , measures 80 mm. in antero-posterior diameter .
II .
The Movement of the Vertebral Column in Respiration .
I can find no reference to this movement in eight of the latest and best known text-books of physiology .
That this movement is actual and of mechanical advantage in breathing can be verified by visual and ortho-diagraphic examination .
In the latter the subject is rotated through an angle of 30 ' to 45 ' into the " lateral oblique " position .
The shadow of the vertebral column is seen clearly separated from that of the pericardium and great vessels by a transradiant triangle , the base of which is formed by the upper surface of the diaphragm .
On inspiration the posterior wall of this triangle , formed by the vertebral column , recedes , to a greater extent below than above , and so opens out the interval from before backwards .
With subsequent expiration the spine advances .
Explanation of the Spinal Respiratory Movement.\#151 ; A general rectification of the curve of the thoracic spine takes place .
In eight ortliodiagraphic Dr. J. F. Halls Dally .
On the [ Jan. 24 examinations of healthy adults , in deep inspiration , the average anteroposterior range of movement was as follows:\#151 ; At upper aperture of thorax opposite 1st thoracic vertebra , 6 mm. Midway between upper aperture of thorax and level of diaphragm opposite 5th thoracic Vertebra , 7*5 mm. At level of posterior part of diaphragm opposite 10th thoracic vertebra , 9 mm. These measurements show that on the average the spinal column is most displaced towards the lower part of the thoracic curvature , and that rectification lessens from below upwards .
Individual differences , however , are not infrequent .
This straightening , which occurs especially in that segment of the spine which articulates with the 6th , 7th , 8th , and 9th ribs , happens as a consequence of the backward push of the sternal ribs when the sternum is raised upwards and forwards by contraction of the cervical and thoracic muscles , thus bringing a larger costal arc into the place previously occupied by a smaller one , and so increasing the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax .
Upon the ribs assuming a position of less obliquity , the spinal column , being far more limited in its possible range of movement than the sternum , on account of its multiple attachments can only execute a fraction of the sternal movement .
Towards the end of inspiration , as the movement of the sternum reaches its dynamic limit , the remainder of the force of the respiratory cycle is spent upon the spine , which accordingly , during the latter half of inspiration , shows progressive mobility .
In the lateral oblique position the apparent movement of the vertebral column is 6 to 9 mm. ; the real movement may be readily calculated by means of a mathematical formula .
Importance of the Spinal Movement.\#151 ; The antero-posterior enlargement of the thoracic cavity produced by simultaneous extension of the thoracic vertebrae in deep breathing lias an important influence upon the aeration of the apices of the lungs , the forward and upward movement of the thorax , together with backward movement of the spine , being of far greater value than the lateral movement in promoting free access of air .
III .
A natomical Dissimilarity of the Two Halves of the Diaphragm .
Anatomically the two halves of the diaphragm differ in size and shape , the right half being the larger and the more powerful , the reason being that this half has to overcome the resistance of the mass of the liver , whereas the stomach is much more easily compressed by the left half .
Functionally , although the two halves of the diaphragm are of unequal size and strength , yet , owing to the difference in resistance on the two sides , their range of 1908 .
] Study of the Mechanism of , etc. 185 movement is but little dissimilar , the difference , if any , being usually in favour of the right half .
' \gt ; ) : ' .
IY .
The Means by which the Diaphragm is supported .
In another paper I have dealt with the superior , or thoracic , and the inferior , or abdominal , supports of the diaphragm .
Y. Level of the Diaphragm .
( 1 ) After Death.\#151 ; The cadaveric position of the diaphragm indicates only the position of expiration .
From the results of an examination of 80 dissecting-room and post-mortem-room cases , I find that the average highest point of the dome of the diaphragm is situate , on the right side at the level of the upper border of the 5th rib in the mid-clavicular line ; on the left side , in the mid-clavicular line at the lower border of the 5 th rib .
This corresponds with the results of orthodiagraphic measurement in bodies of healthy persons who have met with sudden death .
( 2 ) During Life.\#151 ; Owing to the great variability in position of the landmarks usually adopted in measuring the range of the diaphragm , I have taken the meso-metasternal articulation , junction between gladiolus and ensiform , as the basis from which to measure , and a line drawn horizontally through this point\#151 ; the meso-metasternal plane\#151 ; as the plane to which the level of the rise and fall of the diaphragm may be referred , and all orthodiagraphic measurements of the position of the domes and central tendon have been taken in millimetres above and below this plane .
VI .
Absolute Range of Movement of the Diaphragm .
The absolute range of movement of the diaphragm between deep inspiration and expiration in the adult male is , on the right side 34 mm. , on the left side 32 mm. The range in adult females amounts to 27 mm. on the right side , and 25 mm. on the left side , making the total average range 30 mm. on the right side , and 28 mm. on the left .
The fact that these figures are only about half as great as those previously given* is due to the greater accuracy of orthodiagraphic measurement .
In quiet respiration the total average movement is 12'5 mm. on the right side , and 12 mm. on the left .
Hence this movement is approximately equal on the two sides , whilst in deep breathing , the excursion is , for most people , slightly greater on the right side than on the left .
In diagnosis , the movement in deep respiration is the important one to observe .
* The ' Lancet , ' June 27 , 1903 , p. 1802 .
Dr. J. F. Halls Dally .
On the [ Jan. 24 , VII .
The Costo-phrenic Pleural Reflexion .
According to the surfaces with which it is in contact the parietal layer of the pleura conveniently may be divided into costal , diaphragmatic , and mediastinal portions .
The foldings of the pleura constitute three marginal grooves or recesses:\#151 ; 1 .
Pericardio-phrenic groove .
2 .
Pericardio-sternal pleural reflexion .
3 .
Costo-phrenic pleural reflexion . .
1 .
The pericardio-phrenic groove is a shallow recess formed at the junction of the pericardium with the diaphragm , and lodges the plicae adiposae .
2 .
The pericardio-sternal reflexion forms the anterior marginal pleural recess .
3 .
The costo-phrenic reflexion must be considered in greater detail , since it facilitates to such a marked extent the action of the diaphragm .
It is formed by the meeting of the costal and diaphragmatic portions of the pleura , and , beginning at the lower border of the 6th rib close to the termination of the gladiolus , it passes downwards and outwards , reaching the lateral aspect of the spinal column at the lower border of the twelfth thoracic vertebra .
Practically the limit to which the lung descends in ordinary inspiration marks its upper boundary .
Here , owing to friction between the pleural surfaces , a line of demarcation , best seen in the recent state , indistinct in the young child , but increasingly definite with advancing age , gradually forms .
If evidences of pleurisy are present , not infrequently a ridge of organised lymph , concave on its upper surface , delimits the lower lung margin , forming a groove into which the lung fits .
The lower border of the reflexion is wavy or festooned , the festoons being in relation with the intercostal spaces .
In a series of 20 male and female subjects , of ages varying from 18 to 56 years , who had died from causes not involving the lungs , the average depth of the costo-phrenic reflexion , measured in the mid-axillary line from lower margin of lung to lowest limit of pleural cavity , on the right side was found to be 8-62 cm .
, and on the left side 8'34 cm .
The greatest interval in the series was 11 cm .
on the right side ( corresponding to 9 cm .
on the left ) , and the smallest , 5 cm .
on the left side ( corresponding to 6 cm .
on the right ) .
In a female infant aged three months the depth of the reflexion on the right was P5 cm .
, and on the left 1'4 cm .
Function of the Costo-phrenic Pleural Reflexion.\#151 ; The two serous surfaces constituting the reflexion remain in apposition for a distance varying with inspiration and expiration , and are not separated until the wedge-shaped t 1908 .
] Study of the Mechanism of Respiration , etc. L87 lower lung margin glides downwards in inspiration and insinuates itself between them .
As the lung recedes the surfaces again come together .
The-diaphragmatic pleura , owing to its elasticity , accommodates itself to contraction of the diaphragmatic circumferential muscle-fibres , and its smooth , surface allows it to glide easily over the apposed costal layer , which is fixed in such wise that it cannot be displaced .
Owing to negative intra-pleural suction and positive intra-abdominal pressure , together with molecular cohesion of the lubricated pleural surfaces , the pleural union thus formed is of sufficient strength to bind the diaphragm during its action closely to the chest-wall , and , moreover , is of mechanical advantage to the diaphragm , since in function it resembles the band or loop through which a muscle acts in order to change the direction of its line of force .
VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B. Q

