VIII .
Demonstrations of the late Dr. Maskelyne 's formulefor finding the longitude and latitude of a celestial object from its right ascension and declination ; and for finding its right ascension and declination from its longitude and latitude , the obliquity of the ecliptic being given in both cases .
By the Rev. Abram Robertson , D. D. F.R.S. Savilian Professor of 4stronomy in the University of Oxford , and Radcllfian Observer .
Communicated by the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G. C. P. R. S Read February 15 , i8i6 .
THE methods given by our late Astronomer Royal , for solving the two problems alluded to , were printed in his introduction to Taylor 's Logarithmic Tables .
Since their appearance before the public , they have met with the warmest approbation from those most capable of judging of their merit ; but no one , so far as I know , has fully demonstrated them ; nor has any one , so far as my knowledge extends , observed two mistakes with which they are accompanied , and which in certain cases would affect the accuracy of their application .
These circumstances , and a consideration of the high character of the author of the formulae , induced me to reduce the following demonstrations and remarks into the form of a short memoir .
I trust I shall not be charged with any improper motive for thus noticing the mistakes .
Candour , I hope , will view them only as accidental oversights , and the most sincere regard for his memory will allow the propriety of correcting them .
PROBLEM I. " The right ascension and declination of a celestial object , together with the obliquity of the ecliptic , being given , to find its longitude and latitude .
" Let QAR , Fig. i , 3 , , , 5 , 6 , ( P1 .
VI .
) be the equator , P its north , and p its south pole .
Let CAL be the ecliptic , E its north and e its south pole .
In the first three figures , let PpR be the first and PpQ the fourth quadrant of right ascension ; EeL the first and EeC the fourth quadrant of longitude , A in these figures being the first point of aries .
In the last three figures , let PpR be the second and PpQ the third quadrant of right ascension ; EeL the second and Ee C the third quadrant of longitude , A in these figures being the first point of libra .
Let S be a celestial object , and let PSH or pSH be a circle of declination , and ESF or eSF a circle of latitude passing through it , the angle LAR or QAC being the obliquity of the ecliptic .
Then , reckoning from the first point of aries and according to the order of the signs , AH is the right ascension , SH the declination , AF the longitude , and SF the latitude of S. In each of the figures , let it be supposed that the arc of a great circle passes from A to S , and then SAH , SAF will be two right angled triangles .
By trigonometry , sin. A : R : : tan .
HS : tan .
HAS= R tan .
HS R tan .
declinationr 7si .
' --=s .
-A -- , nrorth or south as the declination is .
Let this first auxiliary angie be called A , and let 0 denote the 139 obliquity of the ecliptic .
Then in the first and second quadrants of right ascension , for a star whose declination is north , A~ O--SAF B , the second auxiliary angle , but in these quadrants for a star whose declination is south A+0= SAF = B. In the third and fourth quadrants of right ascension , for a star whose declination is north , A +O = SAF = B , but in these quadrants for a star whose declination is south , A0 SAF B. If S be on Pp , as represented in Fig. 3 and 6 , then 90 ?
-0 SAF = B. To find the longitude , We have the following proportions cos. SAH : R : : tan .
AH tan .
SA , and R : cos. SAF : : tan .
SA : tan .
AF .
Hence cos. SAH : cos. SAF : : tan .
AH : tan .
AF =cos SAFtan .
AH cos. SAH cos. B tan , jI That is tan .
longitude = - , S ARE sin. A Or , as tan .
A : R : : sin. A : cos. A tan ; " this being put for cos. A in the preceding expression , we have also tan .
longitude tan .
A cos , B tan .
gR sin. A If S be on Pp , then R : cos. SAF tan .
SA : tan .
AF COS. .
SAF tani .
SA._COS .
( goo- ) tan .
decline _ c. SAF ta SA .
That is tan .
longitude =cos ( 9o0o n. To find the latitude .
By trigonometry , sin. AF : R : : tan .
SF : tan .
SAF , and therefore sin. AF tan .
SAF sin. longitude tan .
B tan .
SF ---R that is tan .
latitude ----tani .
AF cos. AF Bult tan .
AF : R : : sin. AF:cos .
AF , and sin. AF --and this being put in the preceding expression for sin. AF , we tan .
AF cos. AF tan .
B tan .
long.cos.lonig.tan .
B have also tan , latitude R--R-Rz 14o Rulesfor ascertaining the longitude from the precedingformula .
1 .
The longitude falls in the first , second , third , or fourth quadrant , according as the right ascension is in the first , second , third ; or fourth quadrant , unless the auxiliary angle B be equal to or greater than go0 .
2 .
If B be equal to go0 the longitude = o , if the right ascension is in the first or fourth quadrant ; but if the right ascension is in the second or third , the longitude = 180 ? .
3 .
If B be greater than g90 the following are the consequences .
If the right ascension is in the first quadrant , the longitude falls in the fourth , and on the contrary , if the right ascension is in the fourth , the longitude falls in the first .
If the right ascension is in the second , the longitude falls in the third , and on the contrary , if the right ascension is in the third , the longitude falls in the second .
4 .
If S be on the equinoctial colure , as represented in Fig. 3 and 6 , ( P1 .
VI .
) the following are the consequences .
If S bebetween the first point of aries and P the longitude falls in the first quadrant , but if S be between the first point of libra and P the longitude falls in the second .
If S be between the first point of aries andp the longitude falls in the fourth quadrant , but if S be between the first point of'libra and p the longitude falls in the third quadrant.* The first of these rules will be evident after the second and third are demonstrated .
No provision is made in Dr. MASKBLYNE'S formula for ascertaining the longitude of a celestial object on Pp in either of the two hemispheres .
Demonstration of the second rule .
It is evident that the circle of latitude for any star in EAe coincides with EAe , and therefore in Fig. i , 2 , 3 , ( P1 .
VI .
) in which A represents the equinoctial point of aries , the longitude of such a star is o. Now in Fig. 3 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs Ae , pH , and in this case , SAL in the first quadrant is equal to B=9o ? .
Again in Fig. 3 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs EA , PH , and in this case SAC in the fourth quadrant is equal to B=g9o .
In Fig. 6 .
( PI .
VI .
) let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs eA , pH , and according to the rule , SAL in the second quadrant is equal to B==9o ? .
Lastly , in Fig. 6 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs EA , PH , and according to the rule , SAC in the third quadrant is equal to B9go ? .
It follows from these circumstances , that if B be equal to go ?
, the star must be in EAe , and therefore that its longitude must be either o or 180 ? .
Demonstration of the third Rule .
Let S be a star in Fig. 2 .
between the arcs Ap , Ae , and then it is evident that its right ascension H is in the first , but its longitude F is in the fourth quadrant , and that SAL=B is greater than e AL or 9o ? .
Again let S be a star in Fig. 2 .
between the arcs EA , PA , and then it is evident that its right ascension H is in the fourth quadrant , but its longitude F is in the first , and SAC , which is equal to B , is greater than EAC or go ? .
In Fig. 5 .
( PI .
VI .
) let S be a star between the arcs A e , Ap. Then H the right ascension is in the second quadrant , but F the longitude is in the third , and SAL , equal to B , is greater than e AL or 90 ? .
Again in Fig. 5 .
let S be a star between the arcs EA , PA , and then it is evident that H 142 its right ascension is in the third quadrant , but F its longitude is in the second , and SAC , which is equal to B , is greater than EAC or 9o ? .
Hence it follows , that if B be greater than go9 , the star must be situated between eA and p A , or between EA and PA , and that the consequences with respect to its longitude , must be as stated in the third Rule .
Dr. MASKELYNE says , p. 59 , Problem XIII .
Longitude will be of the same kind , or in the same quadrant of the circle as* is , unless B exceeds 9o ?
, which can only happen when At is in second semicircle.* Then if Al be in third quadrant or from 6s to 9g , longitude will be in second quadrant or from 3s to 6s , and the operation will give L. cot .
excess of long .
above 3 ' .
Or if ARE be in fourth quadrant , or from 91 to Iv , longitude will be in first quadrant ; and the operation will give , L.t , long .
under,3 or in first quadrant .
" PROBLEM II .
' The longitude and latitude of a celestial object , with the obliquity of the ecliptic , being given , to find its right ascension and declination .
" Using the same figures as in the last article , by trigonoR tan .
SF R tan .
latitude metry , sin. AF : R : : tan .
SF : tan .
SAF = sin. AF sin.lgitude .
sinm .
AF sin. longitudel north or south as the latitude is .
Let this first auxiliary angle be called A. Then when the longitude is in the first or second quadrant A+O=SAH=B , the second auxiliary angle , if the latitude is north , but A~O= SAH = B , if the latitude is south .
The words printed in italics contain a mistake , which would affect the longitude of any celestial object situated between Ap , Ae , and pe , both in Fig. 2 and 5 .
When the longitude is in the third or fourth quadrant , then A-OO=SAH= B , if thelatitude is north , but A+O=SAH=B , if the latitude is south .
If S be on Ee , as represented in Fig. 3 , and 6 , then 9o ?
-=SAHL B. To find the right ascension , We have the following proportions , cos. SAF : R::tan .
AF:tan .
SA and R:cos .
SAH::tan .
SA:tan .
AH cos , SAH tan .
AF Hence , cos. SAF : cos. SAH : : tan .
AF : tan .
AH-= -c ?
ssAAFTrhat is tan , _r cos. B tan .
longitude That is tan .
iR =. .
COS. XA ' R sin. A But tan .
A : R : sin. A : cos. A -n .
A and this being pit for the cos. A in the preceding expression , we have also tan .
A cos. B tan .
longitude ' anSen .
-R sin. A. If S be on Ee , then R : cos. SAH : : tan .
SA : tan .
AH cos , SAH tan .
SA That is tan. .
cos. ( g9o-O ) tan .
latitude RR To find the declination .
By trigonometry sin. AH R : tan .
SH : tan .
SAH , and tan .
SH sin. AHltan .
SAH sin. R f tan .
B ; aSA that is tan .
declination = tan Bt tan RR '-A~ Atan .
AH cos ?
AH AH : R : : sin. AH : cos. AH , and sin. AH =co .
A- , and this being put for sin. AH in the preceding expression , we have tan .
Al cos. R tan .
B also tan , declination a= --- .
Rules for ascertaining the right ascension from the preeding formule .
i. The right ascension falls in the first , second , third or fourth quadrant , according as the longitude is in the first , second , third or fourth quadrant , unless the auxiliary angle B be equal to , or greater than 90 ? .
144 2 .
If B be equal to 9go , the right ascension iso , if the longitude is in the first or fourth quadrant ; but if the longitude is in the second or third , the right ascension is 180o ?
$ .
If B be greater than 90 ?
, the following are the consequences .
If the longitude is in the first quadrant , the right ascension falls in the fourth , and on the contrary , if the longitude is in the fourth , the right ascension falls in the first .
If the longitude is in the second , the right ascension falls in the third , and on the contrary , if the longitude is in the third , the right ascension falls in the second .
4 .
If S be on Ee , as represented in Fig. 3 and 6 , the following are the consequences .
If S be between E and the first point of aries the right ascension falls in the fourth quadrant , but if S be between E and the first point of libra the right ascension falls in the third .
If S be between e and the first point of aries the right ascension falls in the first quadrant , but if S be between e and the first point of libra the right ascension falls in the second quadrant.* The first of these rules will be evident after the second and third are demonstrated .
Demonstration of the second Rule .
It is evident that the circle of declination for any star in PAp , coincides with PAp , and therefore in Fig. 1,2 , ,3 , ( P1 .
VI .
) in which A represents the equinoctial point of aries , the right ascension of such a star is o. But in Fig. 4 , 5 , 6 , ( P1 .
VI .
) in which A represents the equinoctial point of libra , the right ascension of a star on PAp is 180 ? .
Now in Fig. 3 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs No provision is made in Dr. MA ASKELYN E'S Formulx for ascertaining the right ascension of a celestial object on Ee in either of the two hemispheres .
PA , OF , and in this case SAR , in the first quadrant , is equal to B==o ? .
Again in Fig. 3 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs p A , e F , and in this case SAQ , in the fourth quadrant = 9o ?
= B. In Fig. 6 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs P A , E F , and in this case SAR , in the second qua , drant , = go ?
= B. Lastly , in Fig. 6 .
let S be a star at the intersection of the arcs pA , of , and in this case SAQ , in the third quadrant , 9o ?
-=B .
Hence it follows that if B= goo , the star must be in PAp , and its right ascension as stated in the rule .
Demonstration of the third Rule .
In Fig. 2 .
let S be a star between the arcs EA , PA , whose longitude F is in the first quadrant , but its right ascension H in the fourth , and then according to the rule SAR , which is greater than PAR or 90 ?
is equal to B. Again in Fig. 2 .
let S be a star between the arcs pA , eA , whose longitude F is in the fourth quadrant , but its right ascension H in the first , and then according to the rule , SAQ in the fourth , which is greater than pAQ or 90 ?
, is equal to B. In Fig. 5 .
let S be a star between the arcs PA , EA , whose longitude F is in the second quadrant , but its right ascension H in the third , and then according to the rule , SAR which is greater than PAR or 90o is equal to B. Lastly , in Fig. 5 .
let S be a star between the arcs pA , eA , whose longitude F is in the third quadrant , but its right ascension H in the second , and then , accord .
ing to the rule , SAQ , which is greater than pAQ , or 9 ?
, is equal to B. It therefore follows , that if B be greater than 9o ?
the celestial object must be situated between EA and PA , or'between eA and pA : for if it be not so situated , B will not be greater than 96o .
The consequences therefore with respect to its right ascension , must be as stated in the third rule .
In Dr. MASKELYNE'S XIVth Problem , it is said , " right ascension will be of the same kind , or in the same quadrant of the circle as the longitude is , unless B exceeds 90 ?
, which can only happen when long .
is in 1st semicircle.* Then if long .
be in ist .
quadrant ; iR will be in 4th quadrant ; and the operation will give log .
cot .
excess of IR above 9s .
Or if long .
be in 2d .
quadrant , JR will be in sd .
quadrant , and the operation will give L. t. excess of A above 6s .
In each of the two Problems the quantity which comes out by calculation , either for the longitude or right ascension , is the distance from the nearest equinoctial point .
In the first quadrant this quantity itself is the longitude or right ascension .
In the second quadrant this quantity must be subtracted from 180 ?
, but in the third quadrant it must be added to 180 ?
, and the difference or sum will be the longitude or right ascension sought .
In the fourth quadrant this quantity must be subtracted from 360 ?
, and the remainder will be the longitude or right ascension required .
M. DELAMBRE has duly appreciated the value of Dr. MASKELYNE'S method , while comparing it with that of M. LALANDE .
LALANDE uses the four following proportions for finding the longitude and latitude.f R:cos .
AH : cos. SH : cos. SA .
R : sin. AH : : cot .
SH : cot .
SAH .
R : cos. SAF : tan .
SA : tan .
AF , R : sin. SA : : sin. SAF : sin. SF .
He afterwards observes that the right ascension and declina .
tion may be found from the longitude and latitude by means of the same analogies , by putting the longitude instead of right ascension , and latitude instead of declination .
Of these and Dr. MASKELYNE'S formulae , Mr. DELAMBRE proceeds to say , * " c MASKELYNE a r6duit " a trois les quatre analogies de LALANDE .
Par ce changement MASKELYNE a remedy fort heureusement a un d6faut assez considerable de la methode de LALANDE .
Quand l'astre est voisin des points equinoxiaux , la premiere analogy de LALANDE qui fait trouver l'inconnue par son cosinus , no peut donner aucune prdcision .
MASKELYNE , au contraire , en dvitant cette inconnue , qui n'est qu'un arc subsidiaire , n'emploie que la tangente , qui n'est jamais sujette a-cet inconvenient .
" # Page,.Vol .
L^ 148

