1893 ] Mr. P. Groom .
On Dischidia Rafflesiana .
III .
" On Dischidia Rafflesiana " By PERCY GROOM , M.A. Com-municated by S. H. Vines , F.R.S. Received February 1 , 1893 .
The Function of the Pitchers.\#151 ; The pitchers contain living ants and acari , small quantities of insect remains , considerable amounts of earth , humus , and water ; but all these bodies and substances are not found in each pitcher .
The earth and humus , though partially brought to the pitchers by the agency of rain-water , are mainly conveyed thither by ants , which nest within the pitchers .
That the roots within the pitchers utilise these solid matters is suggested by the following facts , observed on living plants in the Botanic Garden , Singapore :\#151 ; 1 .
The roots are well developed in pitchers containing a rich store of earth and humus .
2 .
Sometimes these solid substances are arranged up the whole of one side of the cavity of the pitcher , in which case the roots are more strongly developed on the same side ; these phenomena , in some cases at any rate , could not have been occasioned by water having previously been distributed in the pitcher in the same manner .
3 .
Particles of earth are found clinging closely to the root-hairs , which are always well developed in the presence of solid substances .
Actual experiments on living plants prove that the pitcher-roots can absorb liquids .
The pitchers are not mere water-reservoirs ; they are depositories for solids from which , by means of the roots within the pitchers , the plant derives part of its nutriment .
Probably the evolution of the pitchers has been , to a great extent , determined by the myrmecophilous habits of the plant .
Structure of the Roots.\#151 ; In the young state there is an epidermis , many of the cells of which grow out to form root-hairs .
The hairs of the climbing roots are more numerous on the side towards the supporting stem or branch of the host-plant ( u ventral side ' ) , where they form a mycelium-like weft .
The hairs of the roots within the pitchers are more uniformly distributed , but are numerous and short at regions where the root is in contact with the pitcher-wall or with another root .
The hairs of the pitcher-roots , and those on the ventral side of the climbing roots , persist for a long time , and are cuticularised : elsewhere the epidermis disintegrates .
The epider-moidal layer or exodermis is made up of cells , the walls of which are cuticularised and lignified .
The outer walls of the passage-cells of this layer are thick , often possess pits , and are traversed by what may be either radial canaliculi or radial rods of a substance differing from the rest of the wall .
Close beneath the exodermis of the pitcher-root , usually separated from it by one layer of cells , are about six bands of sclerenchyma ; these bands are absent from the climbing 52 Presents .
[ Feb. 23 , roots , or only feebly developed on the dorsal side .
The cortical layer next to the exodermis constitutes itself into a cork-cambium ; and in the pitcher-roots a secondary cork-cambium arises within the bands of sclerenchyma .
Cork is not formed on the distal parts of the pitcher-roots , nor within the most ventral portion of the climbing roots .
Sometimes there is a group of large wood-vessels in the ventral portion of the vascular cylinder .
The points especially worthy of note in the roots of Rafflesiana are\#151 ; 1 .
The early cuticularisation of the root-hairs , and the long persistence of these structures , which , in climbing roots , remain to function as anchoring threads .
2 .
The curious passage-cells of the exodermis , which do not possess thin cellulose-walls .
3 .
The precocious development of cork to prevent excessive loss of water .
4 .
The radial structure and large sclerenchyma-bands of the pitcher-roots .
, 5 .
The dorsi-ventral structure of the climbing roots , as revealed in the formation of root-hairs and cork ; also as seen in the structure of the cortex and even of the vascular cylinder .
IV .
" The Har Dalam Cavern , Malta , and its Fossiliferous Contents .
" By John H. Cooke , F.G.S. With a Report on the t Organic Remains , by Arthur Smith Woodward , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , F.Z.S. Communicated by Henry Woodward , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Y.P.G.S. Received February 2 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , February 23 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology , Harvard College .
Bulletin .
Yol .
XXIII .
Ho. 5 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1892 .
The Museum .
Dublin:\#151 ; Royal Irish Academy .
Transactions .
Yol .
XXX .
Parts 3\#151 ; 4 .
4to .
Dublin1892-93 .
The Academy .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
Ho. 73 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Director .
London:\#151 ; Entomological Society .
Transactions .
1892 .
Part 5 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .
Odontological Society of Great Britain .
Transactions .
Vol. XXY .
No. 3 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Society .

