414 Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
[ July 5 , DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 10 .
Smear preparation of salivary glands of Glossina palpalis , Experiment 866 , stained Giemsa , showing irregularly shaped trypanosomes , with unstained protoplasm , reddish-coloured nuclei , and deeply stained chromatin granules .
Note the chromatin granules scattered singly about the field , each surrounded by a pale area , fig. 1 .
x 2000 .
Normal Trypanosoma gambiense from monkey , Experiment 568 , on which the flies were fed at the beginning of the experiment , figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 .
x 2000 .
Trypanosomes from the mid-gut of infected fly , Experiment 866 , figs. 6\#151 ; 16 .
x 2000 .
Plate 11 .
Rosette form from the mid-gut , fig. 1 .
x 2000 .
Trypanosoma gambiense from the blood of monkey , Experiment 868 , into which a tiny drop of the contents of the mid-gut of Ely 866 had been injected , figs. 2\#151 ; 5 .
x 2000 .
Trypanosomes from the fore-gut of Fly 866 , stained Giemsa , figs. 6\#151 ; 13 .
x 2000 .
A Note on the Occurrence of Trypanosome in the African Elephant .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , E.R.S. , Army Medical Service ; Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. R. Bateman , Royal Army Medical Corps ; and Captain E. P. Mackie , Indian Medical Service .
( Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal Society , 1908 .
) ( Received July 5 , 1909 .
) [ Plate 12 .
] As trypanosomes have never been reported as having been observed in the blood of the African Elephant , the Commission thought it would be of interest to note this observation .
In Laveran and Mesnil 's book on trypanosomes , translated by Nabarro , on p. 261 it is stated that " the occurrence of Surra ( evansi ) in elephants in India and Burmah is practically proved .
In this connection we have only the statement of G. H. Evans that , in 1893 , 14 out of ' 32 elephants died of the disease in Burmah .
" The year 1893 is almost prehistoric for trypanosomes .
At that time observers had even failed to distinguish between the common rat trypanosome\#151 ; Trypanosoma levjisi\#151 ; and that of Surra .
It may well be , then , that Evans was mistaken in his diagnosis of the species causing this large mortality in elephants .
The African elephant , in whose blood this trypanosome was found , was 1909 .
] Trypanosome in the African Elephant .
shot by Mr. L. C. Lea-Wilson , of the Uganda Company , Limited , at a spot two miles from the eastern shore of Lake Albert , near Ngogole , about 31 ' 10 ' E. lat. and 1 ' 30 ' N. long .
It is to be regretted that none of the blood was injected into a dog , donkey , or ox , in order that a fuller study of this trypanosome might have been made .
As it is , all the material available are a couple of smears made by Mr. Lea-Wilson and sent to the Commission .
Morphology of the Trypanosome of the Elephant .
Method of Fixing and Staining.\#151 ; The two slides received from Mr. Lea-Wilson were fixed in osmic acid vapour and alcohol , stained in Giemsa , and decolorised in orange tannin.* Length.\#151 ; For method of measurement see the same paper , p. 16 .
As will be seen from the coloured plate , which was drawn by Sergeant Gibbons , E.A.M.C. , this trypanosome is of medium size .
The average length of 18 individuals is 18'5 microns : maximum 21 , minimum 15 .
Breadth.\#151 ; On an average the breadth at the thickest part is 3 microns .
Shape.\#151 ; This trypanosome is of the Trypanosoma brueei type , inasmuch as it has a well-developed undulatory membrane and free flagellum .
As will be seen from the drawing ( Plate 12 ) , one noteworthy feature it has is the uniformity in size and shape of the different individuals .
The posterior end is blunt , or conical , reminding one somewhat of the head of a seal , with the bulging micronucleus for an eye .
The body thickens as far as the middle , when it gradually tapers away to the anterior end .
Contents of Cell.\#151 ; The protoplasm is clear and particularly free from granules .
Nucleus.\#151 ; The nucleus is compact and sharply defined from the neighbouring protoplasm .
In shape it is round , or oval , and often lies nearer the anterior extremity than the posterior .
Its length averages 2 microns .
Micronucleus.\#151 ; The micronucleus is small , round and distinct .
It is situated close to the posterior extremity , and often appears to bulge above the surface .
Undulating Membrane.\#151 ; The undulating membrane is well developed and thrown into well-marked folds .
Flagellum.\#151 ; The flagellum stains deeply .
It runs from the micronucleus along the edge of the undulating membrane , beyond which it projects as a free flagellum for some 5 or 6 microns .
* Vide i Boy .
Soc. Proc./ Series B , vol. 81 , p. 16 .
On a Trypanosome in the African Elephant .
Conclusions In our present state of knowledge it seems impossible to name trypanosomes from their form alone .
We were , however , much surprised , a short time ago , by Sir John McFadyean separating with ease Trypanosoma brucei from Trypanosoma evansi .
If this can be done for such closely related species , surely it should be possible to do it for all .
To assist to this end it would be vrell if observers would adopt one method of fixing , staining , and measuring .
In the * Third Report of the Welcome Research Laboratories/ Khartoum , facing p. 30 , there is a coloured plate of trypanosomes , stated to have a magnification of 1000 .
On measuring one of them it is found to have a magnification of between 2000 and 3000 .
Then , again , many of the trypanosomes depicted are dividing forms , which is misleading .
The method of measuring must also make a difference .
For example , in Laveran and Mesnil 's book the length of Trypanosoma brucei in the rat is given as 26 to 27 microns , whereas by our method of measuring the average length of 20 individuals is 2 2'8 microns : maximum 25 , minimum 20 .
The trypanosome of the elephant has an average length of 18'5 microns : maximum 21 , minimum 15 , a well-developed undulatory membrane and free flagellum .
The trypanosomes with free flagella are Trypanosoma brucei , cazalboui , evansi , gambiense , pecaudi , and soudanense .
It probably is neither Trypanosoma cazalboui nor pecaudi , on account of its well-developed undulating membrane and uniform size .
Under the circumstances it is impossible to decide as to its identity with Trypanosoma brucei , gambiense , or soudanense , but if a guess were hazarded then it would be Trypanosoma soudanense .
Until the nature of this species is better known we propose to name it Trypanosoma elephantis .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B. Vol. Plate

