A paper was also read , entitled " On the Structure and Use of the Ligamentumn rotundum Uteri , with some observations upon the change which takes place in the structure of the Uterus during Utero-gestation .
" By G. Rainey , Esq. , M.R.C.S.E. , Demonstrator of Anatoniy , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
Communicated by Joseph H. Green , Esq. , F.R.S. The author first refers to the discovery of the difference which exists between the two classes of muscles ; the voluntary , or those with striped fibres , and the involuntary , or those with unstriped fibres .
He then notices that the opinion which is entertained respecting the round ligaments being composed of the unstriped variety of muscular fibre is incorrect , these organs consisting chiefly of the striped muscular fibre In support of the accuracy of this assertion , the author alleges the following facts : First , that the round ligament arises by three tendinous and fleshy fasciculi ; one , from the tendon of the internal oblique , near the symphysis pubis , a middle one from the superior column of the external abdominal ring , the third from the inferior column of the same : from these points the fibres pass backwards and outwards , and uniting form a rounded cord the round ligament ; after which , traversing the broad ligament , they go to be inserted into the angle of the uterus .
The striped fibres are principally situated in its centre , and extend from its origin to within an inch or two of the fundus uteri ; as they approach which , the fibres gradually lose the striated character and degenerate into faseiculi of granular fibres of the same kind as those of the Dartos muscle ; both these fibres presenting similar microscopic characters when acted upon by glycerine .
The author then states that the round ligament does not pass through the external ring to be lost in the labia and mons veneris ; and argues from the fact of their consisting mainly of striped fibres , &amp;c. , that their use cannot be merely mechanical or subservient to the process of utero-gestation , and therefore he concludes that its function must be connected in some way with the process of copulation .
He also adverts to the necessity of examining the round ligament by the microscope in glycerine in preference to any other fluid ; as this substance renders the cellular tissue mixed with the fibres more transparent without diminishing the distinctness of their characteristic markings .
The author next states his views on the changes which take place in the uterus during utero-gestation , and observes , first , that there is no similarity between the fibres of the round ligament and those of the unimpregnated uterus , the latter being made up of spindle-shaped nucleated fibres , contained in a matrix of exceedingly coherent granular matter ; that these fibres are best examined in portions which have been broken up by needles , in preference to thin sections ; and that this tissue is well seen in the larger mammals , as in the Cow , &amp;c. In the impregnated uterus the fibres are found much increased in size and distinctness , but devoid of nuclei and comparatively loosely connected ; and the enlargement of these fibres is of itself sufficient to account for the increased volume of the gravid uterus , without supposing that a set of muscular fibres are formed in it de novo .
Hence he reasons that the unimpregnated uterus consists probably of little more than an assemblage of embryonic nucleated fibres , inactive until the ovum is received into it , after which their development commences and continues simultaneously and progressively with that of the foetus ; so that when this last has arrived at a state requiring to be expelled , the uterus has acquired its greatest expulsory power .
Lastly , the author observes , since the fully-developed fibres cannot return to their former embryonic condition , they necessarily become absorbed , and a new set of embryonic fibres are formed for the next ovum , so that each foetus is furnished with its own set of expulsory fibres ; which view is in perfect accordance with the statements of Drs. Sharpey and Weber , with regard to the membrana decidua .

