Eclipse of the Sun , 1896.\#151 ; Novaya Zenilya Observations .
271 are observed to be more advanced in development than at other times , bat not yet arrived at total maturity ; third , eggs , which according to every probability belong to the Common Eel , are found in the sea from the month of August to that of January inclusive ; fourth , the Leptocephalus brevirostris abounds from February to September .
As to the other months , we are in some uncertainty , because during them our only natural fisherman , the Orthagoriscus mola , appears very rarely ; fifth , I am inclined to believe that the elvers ascending our rivers are already one year old , and I have observed that in an aquarium specimens of L. brevirostris can transform themselves into young elvers in one month 's time .
Total Eclipse of the Sun , 1896.\#151 ; The Novaya Zemlya Observations .
" By Sir George Baden-Powell , K.C.M.G. , M.P. Communicated by J. Norman Lookyer , C.B. , F.R.S. .
Received November 19 , \#151 ; Read November 19 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives an account of the circumstances under which it became desirable to fit out an expedition to observe the eclipse in No'vaya Zemlya , and the arrangements made to convey it by his yacht " Otaria .
" Details are given of the observing station , the erection of the different instruments , and the scheme of work .
The valuable spectroscopic results obtained are still under process of being worked out ; but the coronagraph results are reported in detail , and copies of the chief photographs are appended .
The meteorological and other conditions during the eclipse are duly recorded .
" Preliminary Report on the Results obtained with the Prismatic Camera during the Eclipse of 1896 .
" By J. NORMAN Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 17 , \#151 ; Read November 19 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) I he author first states the circumstances under which Sir George Baden-Powell , K.C.M.G , , M.P. , with great public spirit conveyed an eclipse party to Novaya Zemlya in his yacht " Otaria , " to which party was attached Mr. Shackleton , one of the computers employed by the Solar Physics Committee .
The prismatic camera employed , loaned from the Solar Physics

