Essays of natural Experiments made in the Academy del Cimento under the Protection of the most Serene Prince Leopold of Tuscany .
Englisht by the ingenious Richard Waller Esq ; Fellow of the Royal Society .
THis work was published in Italian in the year 1667 .
and contains several curious Experiments made in the Academy del Cimento , at Florence : the Italian Author thought fit to prefix a Preface elegantly discovering the design of the Academy , to advance real knowledge , their Ingenuity , and Candour in communicating their Experiments , and their obligations to the great Duke Ferdinand of Tuscany , Father to the present Duke Cosmo .
1 .
The Experiments are couched under 10 heads , treating of several Subjects .
It were improper in this place to give a large account of each Particular ; but in short : Having described some of their Instruments , as Thermometers ( of which they seem to bid fairest for the invention ; the first having been brought from Florence , and shown here , tho they were reduced to a Standard , and received their perfection hence ) the Pendulum , and other instruments , they come then to their first head , the Airs pressure , where most of the known Mercurial Experiments are tried , and confirmed , Objections answered , &amp; c. with several Experiments made in vacuo , upon as well animate , as inanimate Bodies .
Amongst the rest is observable an Experiment of Sound ; which may be worth repeating , viz. that an Organ Pipe sounded in vacuo , speaks with little , or no difference , the thin AE there it seems being capable of causing it .
Another Experiment is related of a small Fish that survived the Wrack of the vacuum , but was thereby so far disabled ; that he could never after raise himselfo in the water , but had the Serpents Curse of creeping on his Belly in the Mud .
2 .
In their second Head of Freezing they are very curious in examining the Expansion , Force , and Proceedure of freezing , whereof they have set down several very accurate Tables containing the gradual increase of Bulk , and particular time of every change happening in divers Fluids , these Experiments were made by an Artificial application of Salt , and Snow to the outside of the vessels .
There are likewise many Trials of Freezing naturally by the simple cold of the air .
To these are added some Experiments about the alteration of the capacity of vessels by Heat and Cold .
3 .
Experiments to show Water incapable of Compression .
4 .
Against Positive Levity .
5 .
Magnetical Experiments .
6 .
They treat of Electric Bodies ; which are so , which not , where many Experiments are tried , chiefly with Amber .
7 .
About the change of Colours of Fluids by the mixture of other fluids ; where it is observable that water stilled in Lead inturbidates all Spring , River , and Bath waters .
8 .
About the Motion of Sounds made with several Cannon , and Musket shot .
9 .
Of Projected Bodies , their motion .
The 10th , contains a Miscellany of Experiments not reducible to any of the former heads ; as the Comparative weight of air , and water , Difference of weight of Bodies hot , and cold .
Force of heat in Raresaction , which was indeed very great , breaking a stone Pavement &amp; c. Of Glass whether penetrable : of Light , and its quick motion : of Burning-Glasses : of Bodies affording Light when broken to pieces .
Experiments touching the Digestion of Animals , which seems to be by attrition ; Grinding to Powder all bodies of what solidity soever .
~ much shall suffice for a slight view of the work , which in most if not all the Experiments is very nice , curious , and faithful : but to satisfy those that desire a fuller information I recommend the Book it self as very well worth the Perusal , and by this Translation casy to be procured .
OXFOR D , Printed at the THEATER , and are to be sold by ~ ~ , at the Angel , and Samuel Smith , at the Princes Anns in St. Paul 's Church-yard LONDON .
1684 .

