8 .
" On the Steam-wave .
" By the Rev. Thomas Boys .
Communicated by Charles Babbage , Esq , F.R.S. The term steam-wave is employed by the author to denote that peculiar kind of wave which is generated during the motion of steam vessels on the water ; and which he shows results from the combina ?
tion of two separate sets of waves ; namely , those occasioned simply by the progressive advance of the vessel , and which consequently recede from it on each side , nearly at right angles to its course ; and those arising from the impulses given to the water by the action of the paddles , and proceeding in the same direction as the vessel itself .
He ascribes to the cumulative force acquired by these waves at the parts where they cross one another , the extraordinary vio ?
lence of effect with which they strike against all obstacles opposed to their progress , and which renders them so formidable to boats and other small vessels exposed to the encounter .
The Vice-President in the Chair stated , that he was directed by the Council to call the attention of the Members present , and through them of any philosophical inquirer who might at present be engaged in the prosecution of experimental research , to the existence of a fund at the disposal of the President and Council of the Society , denominated the Donation Fund , of which the dividends are to be applied , " from time to time , in promoting Experimental Researches , or in rewarding those by whom such researches may have been made , or in such other manner as shall appear to the President and Council for the time being most conducive to the in ?
terests of the Society in particular , or of science in general ; " their application to extend to individuals of every country not being at the time Members of the Council ; " and such dividends not to be hoarded parsimoniously , but be " expended liberally , and , as nearly as may be , annually , in furtherance of the declared objects of the Trust .
" The fund was instituted by the late Dr. Wollaston , who contributed ?
2000 three per cent. Consols , and it received the following additions : ?
from the late Mr. Davies Gilbert , ?
1000 three per cent. Consols ; from Mr. Warburton , ?
105 ; from Mr. Charles Hatchett , ?
105 ; from Mr. Guillemard , ?
100 ; and from the late Sir Francis Chantrey , ?
105 .
The Vice-President in the Chair farther stated , that the dividends in the present year would amount to ?
140 16s .
6d .
Mr. W. Archibald Armstrong White , F.R.S. , present at this meet ?
ing , gave ?
10 to the Donation Fund .

