XV .
On the Influence of Atmospheric Pressure upon some of the Phenomena of Combustion .
" By Dr. EDWARD FaANKLAND , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) The author has concluded his experiments upon this subject ; and , in addition to the details of the results which have already been briefly mentioned in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society'* , communicates the following : Although the rate of burning of candles and other similar combustibles , whose flames depend upon the volatilization and ignition of combustible matter in contact with atmospheric air , is not perceptibly affected by the pressure of the supporting medium , yet this is not true of all combustibles .
The rate of burning of self-supporting combustibles , like the time-fuses of shells , depends essentially upon the pressure of the medium in which they are deflagrated .
Attention was first called to this fact by Quartermaster Mitchent , who found that the fuses of shells burnt longer at elevated stations than when ignited near the level of the sea .
The results of the author 's experiments with six-inch or thirty-seconds fuses burnt in artificially rarefied air are embodied in the following table : Reduc~tion of Increase of Average pressure Averag e time Increase of of air in inches of deflagra time ofburning presurecortimeforeach of mercr .
tion of sixover preceding responding diminution o inch fuse .
observation .
with increase one inch of time .
pressure .
Seconds .
Seconds .
Inches .
, Seconds .
30-40 30-33 28-25 32-25 1-92 2-15 '893 25170 34-75 2-50 2-55 -980 22-45 37-75 3-00 3-25 -925 19-65 41-50 3-75 2-80 1-339 15-95 45-50 4-00 3-70 1-081 There are here evident indications of the rate of retardation being somewhat greater at low than at comparatively high pressures ; but , neglecting these indications , the above numbers give 1-043 second as the average retardation in a six-inch or thirty-seconds fuse for each inch of mercurial pressure removed .
This result agrees closely with that obtained by'Quartermaster Mitchell , if we except those fuses which he burnt at the greatest altitude ; and in reference to which some error must obviously have crept in .
The following table shows Mr. Mitchell 's results uniformly with those in the last table .
The filses which he employed were fifteen-seconds or threeinch ones , and their times of combustion have therefore been multiplied by two in order to bring them into comparison with the sixinch fuses which were used in the author 's experiments:e ncrease of Reduction of Increase of Pressure of air Average time Pressure of air combustion time of compressure cortime for each of six-inch b in incihes of ?
fofuof six .
bustion over responding to diminution of mercury .
fuse .
last observaincrease of one-inch tion .
time .
pressure .
Seconds .
Seconds .
Inches .
Seconds .
29-61 28-50 26-75 31-56 3-06 2-86 1070 23-95 34-20 2-64 2-80 -943 22-98 36-25 2-05 -97 2-113 Here , omitting the last determination as abnormal , we have the average retardation , in the combustion of a six-inch fuse , for each diminution of one-inch mercurial pressure , equal to 1 007 second , which coincides almost exactly with the number ( 1'043 ) deduced from the author 's experiments .
The results of both series of observations may therefore be embodied in the following law:-The increments in time are proportional to the decrements in pressure .
For all practical purposes the following rule may be adopted:-Each diminution of one inch of barometrical pressure causes a retardation of one second in a thirtyseconds fuse ; or , each diminution of atmospheric pressure to the extent of one mercurial inch increases the time of burning by onethirtieth .
This retardation in the burning of time-fuses by the reduction of atmospheric pressure will probably merit the attention of artillery officers .
Up to the present moment these fuses have been carefully prepared so as to burn , at Woolwich , a certain number of seconds ; but such time of combustion at the sea-level is no longer maintained when the fuses are used in more elevated localities .
Even the ordinary fluctuations of the barometer in our latitude must render the time of the combustion of these fuses liable to a variation of about ten per cent. Thus a fuse driven to burn thirty seconds when the barometer stands at 31 inches , would burn thirty-three seconds if the barometer fell to 28 inches .
Even the height to which a shell attains in its flight must exert an appreciable influence upon the burning of its time-fuse ; to a still greater extent , however , must the time of combustion be affected by the position of the fuse during the flight of the shell .
If it precede the shell , the time of burning must obviously be considerably shorter than if it follow in the comparatively vacuous space behind the shell .
The apparently opposite conclusions to which we are led as regards the influence of atmospheric pressure upon the rate of combustion , by the experiments upon candles on the one hand and upon time-fuses on the other , are by no means irreconcilable ; in fact , an examination into the conditions of combustion in the two cases scarcely leaves room for the expectation of any other result .
In the combustion of a candle , the author proves that , at all pressures , there is a sufficient supply of melted combustible matter kept up at the base of the exposed portion of the wick : the capillarity of the latter is not affected by pressure ; and as the temperature of the flame is also proved to remain practically constant , effecting the evaporation of the same amount of combustible matter under all pressures , it follows that the rate of consumption of a candle must be nearly or quite independent of the pressure of the surrounding medium .
In the deflagration of time-fuses , the conditions are obviously very different .
IHere the combustible matter never comes into contact with atmospheric oxygen until it has been ejected from the fuse-case .
Unlike the candle , the composition contains within itself the oxygen necessary for combustion , and a certain degree of heat only is necessary to bring about chemical combination .
If this heat were applied simultaneously to every part of the fuse composition , the whole would burn almost instantaneously .
Under ordinary circumstances , however , the fuse burns only at a disk perpendicular to its axis ; and the time occupied in its deflagration necessarily depends upon the rapidity with which each successive layer of composition is heated to the temperature at which chemical combination takes place .
This heat , necessary to deflagration , is evidently derived from the products of the combustion of the immediately preceding layer of composition ; and the amount of heat thus communicated to the next unburnt layer must depend , in great measure , upon the number of particles of these heated products which come into contact with that layer .
Now , as a large proportion of these products are gaseous , it follows that , if the pressure of the surrounding medium be reduced , the number of ignited gaseous particles in contact at any one moment with the still-unignited disk of composition will also be diminished .
Hence the slower rate of deflagration in rarefied air .
With regard to the effect of atmospheric pressure upon the light of gas-flames , the author thus expresses the conclusion arrived at : Of 100 units of light emitted by a gas flame burning in air at a pressure of 30 inches of mercury , 5'1 units are extinguished by each reduction of one mercurial inch of atmospheric pressure .
Hence the decrease in illuminating power is directly proportional to the decrease in atmospheric pressure .
This law is also proved to apply to gas , the illuminating power of which has been doubled by naphthalization ; and consequently it may be regarded as applying to all flames in which hydrocarbons are the source of light .
The investigation has also been extended to the effect of compressed atmospheres upon the light of combustion .
Great difficulties were experienced in this branch of the inquiry , as gas could not be used , and recourse must therefore be had to other combustibles , which , as already pointed out , are liable to certain irregularities .
Owing to these and other difficulties , satisfactory determinations could only be made between one and two atmospheres .
In these determinations , the lamp which replaced the experimental gas flame was supplied with amylic alcohol-a liquid which , whilst affording an appreciable amount of light under one-atmosphere pressure , was found to burn under two atmospheres without smoke , although at a somewhat higher pressure it began to evolve unconsumed carbon .
The results obtained approximate closely to those indicated by the above law , deduced from the corresponding determinations in rarefied atmospheres , as will be seen from the following table , in which , the mean of eleven observations is given under each experiment ; the column headed " calculated " containing the numbers deduced from the rate of variation of luminosity in rarefied air : Illuminating Power .
Pressure .
Observed .
Calculated .
1 Atmosphere ... ... ... .
100 100 2 Atmospheres first ... ... 263'7 253 2 Atmospheres second ... .
261'3 253 Further determinations , in which the illuminating power at threeand four-atmospheres pressure was compared , yielded results differing widely from this law , and indicating a much more rapid increase of light ; but as the liability to errors increases greatly at these higher pressures , little confidence is placed in the numbers .
The lamp was fed with a mixture of five parts of vinic alcohol and one part of amylic alcohol ; it had no appreciable illuminating effect under ordinary atmospheric pressure : Illuminating Power .
Pressure .
Observed .
Calculated .
_ _ .
f ... ... ... . .
L. 3 Atmospheres ... ... . .
406 406 4 Atmospheres ... ... .
959 559 In tracing the cause of this variation of light under different atmospheric pressures , the author calls attention to the conditions upon which the light of ordinary flames depends .
He shows that it is derived almost exclusively from the separation of carbon particles within the flame , and that it is increased by the augmentation of the amount of carbon thus precipitated , and by an increased temperature in the flame ; whilst it is diminished by the separation of less carbon and by a reduction of temperature .
The temperature of flame is not materially altered by the rarefaction of the'supporting medium ; and hence the loss of light cannot arise from a reduction of temperature .
On the other hand , the separation of carbon particles is greatly augmented by increased pressure ; thus candles evolve much smoke when burnt under a pressure of two atmospheres ; whilst even a small alcohol flame , which burns with a pure blue light at ordinary pressures , becomes highly luminous in air four times compressed .
Flames which smoke at ordinary pressures become smokeless in rarefied air , and undergo more complete combustion .
Whilst , therefore , the light of flames is due to the separation of carbon particles , the latter owe their momentary existence to the absence of sufficient oxygen for their combustion ; consequently any influence which causes the more rapid interpenetration of the flame gases and exterior air , must reduce the amount of precipitated carbon , and consequently also the luminosity of the flame .
Rarefaction exercises precisely such an influence by increasing , as it is well known to do , the mobility of the gaseous particles , and thus causing the access of a larger amount of oxygen to the region of the flame where precipitated carbon produces luminosity .
An analysis of the gases evolved from a candle flame , burning under a pressure of only eight mercurial inches , proved that there was perfect combustion even at this low pressure .
In conclusion , the influence of atmospheric pressure upon the phenomena of combustion may be thus summed up .
1 .
The rate of burning of candles and other similar combustibles , whose flames depend upon the volatilization and ignition of combustible matter in contact with atmospheric air , is not perceptibly affected by the pressure of the supporting medium .
2 .
The rate of burning of self-supporting combustibles , like timefuses , depends upon the rapidity of fusion of the comnbustible conmposition , which rapidity of fusion is diminished by the more rapid removal of the heated gases from the surface of the composition .
Ience the rate of burning of combustibles of this class depends upon the pressure of the medium in which they are consumed .
In the case of time-fuses , the increments in the time of burning are proportional to the decrements in the pressure of the surrounding medium .
3 .
The luminosity of ordinary flames depends upon the pressure of the supporting medium ; and , between certain limits , the decrease in illuminating power is directly proportional to the decrease in atmospheric pressure .
4 .
The variation in the illuminating power of flame by alterations in the pressure of the supporting medium depends chiefly , if not entirely , upon the ready access of atmospheric oxygen to , or its comparative exclusion from , the interior of the flame .
5 .
Down to a certain minimum limit , the more rarefied the atmosphere in which flame burns , the more complete is its combustion .

