98 Dr. A. Hill .
The Fasciola Cinerea ; its Relation [ May 2 , limb.* Such results may , as the authors say , be considered to point to the " profound difference between the production of the fine movements of the limb in volition , on the one hand , and by experimental stimulation of the cortex , on the other .
" This explanation is as valid for the one as for the other interpretation .
The stimulation by electricity may , and probably does , involve a very different kind of stimulus from that which normally emanates from the cortex during a voluntary act , and how subtle are the differences that exist between the conditions leading to paralysis or not in different instances may be judged from the functional cases of paralysis of cerebral origin , previously referred to , in which there may be in the same person , in immediately successive periods , complete paralysis of the limb so long as the eyes are closed , and no such paralysis when the eyes are opened .
What has been said above shows , moreover , bow much removed we are from the position assumed to be true about twenty years ago , t when centres " immediately concerned in effecting volitional movements " were considered to be " as such truly motor .
" IV .
" The Fasciola Cinerea ; its Relation to the Fascia Dentata and to the Nerves of Lancisi .
" By Alex Hill , M.D. , Master of Downing College .
Communicated by Prof. A* .
Macalister , F.R.S. Received April 2 , 1895 .
In my paper on the hippocampus , published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1893 ( vol. 184 , B , pp. 389\#151 ; 429 ) , I stated as a subsidiary conclusion , resulting from my investigation of the brains of marine mammals , that " there is no reason for associating the fascia dentata with the striae longitjudinales ( nervus Lancisii ) , gyrus supracallosalis , and gyrus geniculi , or for supposing that all these four structures belong to a single organ , which forms a part of the cortical centre for the sense of smell .
" This conclusion was based upon the following observations :\#151 ; A. In * This fact shows that the cutting off of the afferent impressions by section of the sensory roots does not entail a lowered excitability of the kinsesthetic centres in the cortex , but rather the reverse , if we look to the really lowered activity in the spinal centres which the absence of tonus implies .
In the ease of complete cerebral hemiansesthesia , however , there is , over and above the absence of any such lowered activity of the spinal centres , another important difference between the conditions existing and those which obtain in the experiments of Drs. Mott and Sherrington , viz. , no cutting off of cerebellar influence , so that the activity of the cortex and of the sub-cortical centres is less interfered with .
These differences tend , I think , to explain the presence of paralysis with section of the posterior roots , and its absence with cerebral hemiansesthesia .
( 4 , 1895 .
) \#166 ; f Ferrier , " Functions of the Brain , " 1st Ed. , 1876 , p. 200 .
1895 .
] to the Fascia Dentata and to the Nerves of Lancisi .
99 certain aquatic mammals completely destitute of olfactory apparatus , e.g. , Hyperoodon ( bottle-nosed whale ) , the stria longitudinalis lateralis is present in its usual form , and enlarges anteriorly into supra-callosal and geniculate convolutions , which are unusually distinct , although minute .
B. In megosmatic animals the fascia dentata is continued far beneath the corpus callosum , and only ceases to accompany the fimbria where this body turns downwards in the anterior pillar of the fornix .
C. Coronal sections carried through the back of the corpus callosum of an ox-brain revealed no trace of a recurrent fascia dentata .
On these grounds I assumed that the fascia dentata is a sub-callosal structure .
In this conclusion I was , however , completely mistaken , as investigations in progress at the time when my paper on the hippocampus went to press have clearly proved .
The fascia dentata is continued on to the dorsal surface of the corpus callosum .
A series of sections carried through the corpus callosum with the underlying fimbria and fascia dentata , in the brain of a cat , show that , just as the fornix is turning downwards in its anterior pillar , the fascia dentata is folded on itself , and retraces its course back towards the splenium corporis callosi , almost along the middle line of the brain .
In this folding the trough of fascia dentata , into which the pyramidal cells of the margin of the cortex are received , remains open dorsally ; at the fold the margins of the trough are slanted somewhat forwards .
A coronal section taken a short distance behind the fold ( fig. A ) shows the fascia dentata cut twice .
On the outer side it is large and well-developed ; on the mesial side the recurrent fascia is small and narrow .
Between the two parts of this folded ribbon is pushed a rounded tubercle of cortex ( callosal convolution of Zuckerkandl ) , which is continuous with the gyrus fornicatus .
Slightly farther back the trough of fascia dentata is reduced to a curved plate ( fig. B ) .
This extends but a little way , for , at about half the distance between the folding of the fascia dentata and the splenium corporis callosi , the stratum granulosum , which has invested the margin of the cortex from the temporal extremity of the hiatus ventriculi to this point , comes to an end .
Near the splenium the layer of pyramidal cells which represents the general cortex is reduced to a fold with a bevelled edge , and no indications of its retaining in its tissue any remnants of the characteristic granule layer of the fascia dentata are to be seen .
My sections through the corpus callosum of the ox were not carried sufficiently far forward .
In a certain number of human brains the continuity of fascia dentata and stria longitudinalis through the medium of an interven-ing band , the fasciola cinerea , may be seen very distinctly .
100 Dr. A. Hill .
The Fasciola Cinerea ; its Relation [ May 2 , Fig. A. Coronal Section through the Corpus Callosum and underlying Fascia Dentata of the Cat. a. Fascia dentate .
b. Recurrent fascia dentata or fasciola cinerea .
c. Callosal convolution .
d. Gryrus fornicatus , with stria longitudinalis lateralis between it and the corpus callosum .
e. Corpus callosum .
Figl B. Coronal Section through the Corpus Callosum and underlying Fascia Dentata nearer the Splenium Corporis Callosi than in figure A. a. Fascia dentata .
b. Recurrent fascia dentata or fasciola cinerea .
c. Callosal convolution .
d. Gl-yrus fornicatus , with stria longitudinalis lateralis between it and the corpus callosum .
e. Corpus callosum .
1895 .
] to the Fascia Dentata and to the Nerves of Lancisi .
101 Pig .
C is a photograph of a brain in which the fasciola cinerea is well-developed .
The dentations of the fascia dentata as it lies in the dentary fossa are unusually well marked .
As the fimbria leaves it Fig. C. D Photograph of a Portion of the Brain of a Man 45 years old .
The Brain had been hardened in bichromate of ammonia .
Magn. f. A. Gyrus fomicatus joining\#151 ; B. Gyrus lingualis .
c. Corpus callosum .
D. Posterior pillar of the fornix .
The fascia dentata is seen passing out of the groove between the fimbria and the gyrus hippocampi ; it divides after a short distance into\#151 ; E. Callosal convolution and\#151 ; r. Fasciola cinerea , which ascends around the back of the splenium corporis callosi .
to pass on the ventral side of the corpus callosum , the fascia dentata ( fasciola cinerea ) ascends on the posterior surface of the splenium , at first as a band of some breadth ( fig. D ) , which divides , after a course of about 4 mm. , into two parts ( fig. E ) , of which the outer is a small oval convolution ( callosal convolution ) , and the inner the continuation of the fascia dentata .
The cortex from the gyrus fornicatus is continued into the callosal convolution , in which it is closely folded like capital O before it enters the fasciola cinerea .
In the fasciola cinerea it lies at first flat on the corpus callosum , and then folds back on itself , to receive its cap of stratum granulosum , which borders the groove that separates it from the callosal convolution .
Traces of a cap of fascia dentata can be seen for about 2 mm. beyond the separation of the gyrus callosalis and the fasciola .
Por Dr. A. Hill .
The Fasciola Cinerea .
[ May 2 , Fig. D. Transverse Section through the Fasciola Cinerea of Brain C , just before the appearance of the little Callosal Convolution on the outer side of the fasciola .
a. Corpus callosum .
b. Gyrus fornicatus .
c. Subiculum cornu Ammonis .
d. Stratum granulosum .
e. Groove between stratum granulosum and callosal convolution .
A blood vessel is seen in this groove .
Fig. E. Transverse Section through the Fasciola Cinerea and Gyrus Callosalis of Brain C. The letters indicate the same structures as in figure D , with the addition of Gyrus callosalis .
some distance beyond the point at which the last u granules " disappear this folding outwards of the edge of the cortex is still visible .
In my paper on the hippocampus ( p. 392 ) I have given an account of the views held by various anatomists as to the connections of the Presents .
1895 .
] stria longitudinalis medialis ( nervus Lancisii ) and stria lateralis ( stria obtecta , taenia tecta ) .
My preparations seem to prove that the mesial stria is the continuation of the fasciola cinerea , while the lateral stria belongs to the circumcallosal convolution , which is destroyed in most parts , although it may be developed in front into gyrus geniculatus , above into gyrus supracallosalis , and behind into gyrus callosalis ( or sub-splenialis ) .
It is , however , very difficult to follow the atrophied fascia dentata and circumcallosal convolutions through the indusium griseum which clothes the back of the splenium , and I prefer to wait for a brain in which these foetal structures may chance to be unusually well-developed , before expressing a decided opinion as to their homology .
V. " An Attempt to Cultivate Parasitic Protozoa from Malignant Tumours , Vaccinia , Molluscum Contagiosum , and certain Normal Tissues , together with Infection Experiments carried out with the Culture Media , and a Note on the Treatment of Cancer .
" By Samuel G. Shattock and Charles A. Balance .
Communicated by Sir James Paget , Bart. , F.R.S. Received March 25 , 1895 .
[ Publication deferred .
] .
Presents , May 2 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Bucharest:\#151 ; Societatea de Sciinte Pizice .
Buletin .
Anul III .
Nos. 11 , 12 .
8vo .
Bucuresct 1895 .
The Society .
Cambridge :\#151 ; Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. VIII .
Part 4 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1895 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. XXVI .
No. 1 .
8vo .
, Mass .
1894 .
The Museum .
Cracow :\#151 ; Academy des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Mars , 1895 .
8vo .
Cracovie 1895 .
The Academy .
Prankfort-on the-Oder :\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein .
Helios .
Jahrg .
XIII .
Nos. 7\#151 ; 12 .
8vo .
Franlcfurt a. O. 1894\#151 ; 95 ; Societatum Litterae .
Jahrg .
VIII .
Nos. 10\#151 ; 12 .
Jahrg .
IX .
Nos. 1\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Frankfurt a. 0.1894-95 .
The Society .
Galway : Queen 's College .
Calendar .
1894\#151 ; 95 .
8vo .
Dublin .
The College .

