IV .
" Anatomical Description of a Species of Asteroid Polypes , probably forming the type of a new genus of Alcyonide .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Assist .
Surg .
R.N. Communicated by Capt. DENHIAM , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1857 .
On leaving the Conway Reef ( lat. 21 44 ' 48 " S. , long .
174ยง 37 ' 45 " E. ) , July 4 , 1855 , a very beautiful branched asteroid Zoophyte , belonging to the Alcyonidme , was brought up from a depth of between 30 and 40 fathoms , on the buoy-rope of the anchor .
The polypidom , from a trunk of about one inch and a half in diameter , branched off , with much irregularity , but generally in a dichotomous manner , into very minute subdivisions .
The investing membrane was strengthened by the close deposition of elongated , fusiform , and minutely tuberculated spicula of a deep crimson-lake tint , which impart their colour to the whole mass .
The internal substance was chiefly composed of longitudinal muscular septa , radiating from the central axis ( which contained no denser material ) , frequently communicating with one another laterally , and being fixed into the internal surface of the integument in vertical lines .
These muscular septa were invested on each side with a layer of finely reticulated vessels ; both sets being connected by numerous transverse trunks passing through the intervening muscular tissue , and the spaces between the septa were filled with a transparent glairy fluid .
The polyp-cells were exposed and solitary , resting on the internal surface of short branchlets strengthened by large dorsal spicula , one of which , much larger than the rest , extended considerably beyond the polyp-cells , tapering gently to a needle-like point .
These latter spicula are covered with tubercles , and in every respect , but in size , similar to those of the general integument .
The small spicula on the internal or ventral surface of the branchlets diverge from one another in the peripheral direction , while those on the dorsal border are disposed longitudinally .
The mouth of each cup-like polyp-cell was surrounded with about eight projecting spicula , whose fixed extremities were curved upwards and inwards , festoon-fashion , while numerous smaller ones were so disposed as to fill up the open spaces posteriorly , and thus strengthen the body of the cell .
Although I have not been able to count the number of the oral tentacula satisfactorily , from their proportional size I can readily believe that there were about eight in this species , as in most if not all other asteroid polypes .
They were broad and flat , tapering to a blunt point , like those of Sarcodyction ( Forbes ) , to which genus I have no doubt this Zoophyte is nearly allied , though the habit of the polypidom is so very different .

