A Paper was read , entitled , " Researches in Physical Astrono ?
my^ ' by John William Lubbock , Esq. V.P. and Treasurer of the Royal Society .
The author has shown in a former paper , published in the last part of the Philosophical Transactions for 1830 , that the stability of a system of bodies subject to the law of gravitation , is always preserved , provided they move in a space absolutely devoid of re ?
sistance .
This conclusion results from the analytical expressions for the variations of the elliptic constants in the theory of the Planetary Motions .
In the present paper he extends his researches to the problem of the precession of the Equinoxes , which admits of a similar solution to the former .
Of the six constants which determine the position of the revolving body , and the axis of instantaneous rotation , at any instant , three have only periodic inequalities ; while the other three have each a term which varies as the time 3 but from the manner in which these constants enter into the resulting expressions , the equilibrium of the system may be inferred to be stable , as in the former case .
By the stability of the system , the author wishes to be understood to mean that the pole of the axis of rotation has always nearly the same geographical latitude , and that the angular velocity of rotation , and the obliquity of the ecliptic vary within small limits - , and that its variation is periodical .
The author also gives new methods of obtaining the inequalities of longitude , and the radius vector , in the planetary theory , retaining the square of the eccentricitics .
When only the first powers of the eccentricities are retained , these expressions admit of simplification .
He subjoins as a numerical example , the calculation of the coefficients of two of the inequalities of longitude in the theory of Jupiter disturbed by Saturn 5 and points out the requisite substitutions for rendering the formulae applicable to the case of a superior planet disturbed by an inferior planet .

