]\gt ; 1890 .
] Pressure upon an lnclined urface .
2.33 One cubic inch of water ( as above ) grains which grains the imperial pound inches contains 300 .
IV .
" " On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface By W. H. .
Communicated by the Meteorological Council .
Received June 12 , 1890 .
In accordance with a plan suggested a memorandum drawn up by Professor Darwin , I have made the follo ving experiments upon this , using for the purpose the large whirling machine of .56 feet diameter erected at Hersham .
The apparatns was made by Mr. Munro , and the general arrangement is shown in figs. 1 , 2 , and Fig. 1 gives a view as seen from the point towards which the pressure plate is moving ; fig. 2 as seen the centre of the whirling machine ; and fig. 3 as seen a point vertically above it .
FIG. 1 .
VOL. XLVIII .
f$ Mr. W. H. FIG. 2 .
[ June 1890 .
] On Wind Pressure upon an lnclined Surface .
235 The moment due to ths wind pressure is balanced by the moment of the centrifugal force due to the circular motion acting upon the bar AB .
The axis , about which the pressure plate can turn , is coincident with ] the arm of the whirling machine , and the axis of rotation CD of the bar AB is vertical , that is , parallel to axis of the whirler , the bar itself being horizontal , and at right angles to the long arm .
The moment due to the centrifugal ce could be variod at pleasure by sliding the bar AB longitudinally through a slot , and thus altering the distance of its centre its axis of rotation .
The bar weighs , and is grad uated in decimals of a foot ; thus , if its centre of mass be placed at a distance from its axis of rotation , the moment is .
and lbs This arrangement renders any determination of the velocity [ lnnecessary during the experiments , siucs the wind also varies as , and therefore , as soon as is known , the moment due to wind pressure can be expressed in terms of reasons subsequently explained , it was found advisab ] to ways work at about same pace , and forty miles an hour was chosen as most convenient .
The pressure plate of polished wood was 1 foot square , and , in order that the back might not sent any irregular surface to the wind , it was made so that the section should be a very obtuse isosceles triangle , ) altitude being inches , and the supporting sing through the width of the solid wood .
It was mounted with its centre 1 foot from its axis of rotation , and was balanced by a counterpoise weight , , placed on the other side of the axis , the weight also making the arrangement symmetrical with regard to wind pressure .
The lever OF .
on which the pressure plate was mounted , was clamped to a circular brass disc , , with a graduated rim , the disc having its centre on the line MN , and bein free to turn in its own phne about that line .
The disc communicated its angular motion by a stud to the frame , through hich the bar AB could slide , frame and bar being pivoted , so that they could turn about the vertical axis CD , the motion thus changed from a vertical to a horizontal plane .
Of course , a stud being employed instead of a pair of bevelled wheels .
a play of only a few degrees was possible .
The lever ] could be clamped to the disc by a bolt and nut , , in any positio1l , and , since the motion was horizontal and the zero mark of the disc corrcsPonded to a vertical position of the lever , the duated disc afforded an easy method of giving to the angle of incidence of the air upon the face of the plate any desired value .
The plate , again , could be arranged so that the plane of its surface made any desired le with the lever FIG. 4 .
FIG. 5 .
: 1890 .
] On Wind Pressure upon an lnclined .
237 It remains to explain how the value of the moment corresponding to any position of the plate was measllred .
The bar AB was made to take up its position of with the plate automatically , and the plan by which this was accomplished is slIown in figs. 4 and 5 .
The sliding bar AB had a rack cut on it , and the pivoted frame which carried it also carried a crown whee ] , X , and pinion , the teeth of the pinion working into the rack cut on the bar .
The fixed frame of the apparatus carried a long pinion and grooved pulley , HL .
A band from a small windmill placed on the long arm caused this pulley to turn in one direction whenever possible .
The pinion LH was placed just in front of the crown wheel , and so near to it that when it was exactly parallel to the face of the crown wheel the teeth on both sides were engaged , and consequently the arrangement was locked , and no motion could take place , the band either slipping on the pulley , or the windmill ceasing to turn .
If , however , the frame carrying the crown wheel moved slightly round its axis , so as to bring the bar AB into contact with the stop , it is evident the teeth of the wheel on the side near would become free from the pinion , and , the teeth on the side near being more deeply engaged , the wheel would begin to turn , and would communicate a ]ongitudinal motion to the bar AB , by means of the rack and pinion , causing it to move from towards A. Contact wibh the stop would cause the teeth on the side near to become engaged , and consequently the wheel would turn in the other direction , and the bar move from A to B. Under these circumstances the bar takes up that position in which the moment due to the centrifugal force is exactly equaI to the moment due to the wind pressure which it is required to measure ; for is the only position in which bar can rest ; any departure from the position of equilibrium being immediately foUowed by a readjustment of the position .
Hence , to debermine the wind pressure , it was only necessary to clamp the plate in position , to allow the steam engine to give a few turns to the whirling machine , to stop it , and then read off and enter the distance of the centre of mass of the bar from its axis of rotation .
In practice two bars were used , one weighing 2 lbs. , which could be placed in any position and clamped by hand ; the other hing lb. , which , being worked by the automatic ement , made the final adjustment .
Both these were graduated in decimals of a foot , and the plan adopted was to enter the distance of the centrc of mass of the 2-1b .
bar from the axis of rotation first , and then to enter the distance of the small bar , prefixing a sign , according as the two centres were on the same or opposite sides of the , axis .
Dividing the second entry by 8 , since .
is , and then adding it algebraical ] Position I. Position III .
Posihon IV .
The four typical positions are shown in the figures , and are referr.ed to the ) sequent tables and remarks as Positions I , II , III , and IV .
The following extract , taken from Professor Darwin 's memo randum , shows how the normal component of the wind pressure and position of the centre of pressure may be obtained:\mdash ; " " It may be supposed that the couple , due to the wind upon all the moving parts except ths plate , may be eliminated , so 1890 .
] On Wind Pressure upon an Tnclined Surface .
239 that the couple necessary to hold the plato in position alone remains to be determined .
" " Consider the first and second positions of the plate or vane ; the wind meets the vanes at the same angles in both cases , couples would be identical , if the centre of pressure were at the middle of the vane .
But it is well known that the centre of pressure is nearer the forward edge , and hence the couples are unequal .
" " If be the disffince from the centre of the plate to its axis of rotation , and if be the unknown distance of the cemre of pressure from the centre of the plate , and if be the mean pressure estimated over the whole plate , and and the couples collesponding to the two positions , then it is clear that ' ' ; .
4 ' from which we easily get " " also Px .
Thus , this pair of experiments gives two of the things to be manured .
" " Next consider the 3rd and 4th positions , where the plate is clamped its plane perpendicular to the arm , and where the inolination to the horizon is complementary to the angle of inclination in the 1st and 2nd positions .
" " Suppose that is the tangential force on the plate , and the oouples in the two cases .
" " Then it is clear that ' ' and ; 4 ' from which we get .
" " If we avail ourselves of the value of and , obtained from the 1st and 2nd experiments , we have ' ' Ta .
" " The and 4th experiments thus afford a redundant equation , and this may be expected to give , check on the consistency of the ults with themselves .
expectation unfulfilled .
For the purposes of comparison , the value of the moment of the 1 foot square pressure plate , when exposed normally , with its centre is one point of which we must not lose sight .
The long arm of the whirling machine is not perfectly rigid , and gives way under the orsion produced by the wind pressure .
Experiments made by hanging weights from the end of a lever showed that a force of acting 1 foot from the axis caused a deflexion of , and since this il about the moment caussd by a velocity of 40 miles an hour , when tho plate is exposed normally , the curves have been drawn on the sition that a moment represented by 100 caused a deflexion of , and that the other moments caused a proportionate deflexion .
It was on this account that it was found advisable to make all experiments at one uniform velocity .
On Pressure upon an Inclinwd .
241 FIG. 9.\mdash ; Diagram of Moments .
Square Plate .
The actual results which have been are all given in the following tables , in which no notice is taken of the torsional deflexion , although it has been taken into account in drawing the curves .
Position I. Angk of .
Values of moment .
97 , 105 , 115 , 107 98 S5 Position IT .
of incidence .
Values of moment .
109 , 105 , 111 , 100 , , 119 ( at top ) 107 , 100 , 114 , 108 ( at bottom ) Mr. W. H. Dines .
Position I\mdash ; continued .
Angle of incidence .
Values of momenl .
102 Position III .
Angle of incidence .
Values of moment .
Position continued .
Angle of incidence .
VaIues of moment , \ldquo ; 128 , 130 Position IV .
incidenceAngleof .
Values of moment .
3 , 3 24 , 23 These tables give a negative value to the tangential component the pressure when the angle is , and they also make it that the central line of pressure is coincident with the central of the plate until the angle of incidence exceeds .
Neither ' On Wind Pressure upon these conclusions seeming probable , some independent information upoI the natural wind was used .
tered Irains weight paced oimit.eems considered emotion cbtained , that iecbed iobate tirection aifferent narious positions , eingA 1inch .
Mr. W. H. Dines .
FIG. 7 .
shown in figs. 6 and 7 was designed .
A pressure plate , , similar to the experimental plate , was mounted on a steel rod , AB , the line of the rod being on the face of the plate , and parallel to a vertical edge , but not necessarily the centre of the plate .
The rod was ground to a sharp point at its lower end and placed in a piece of brass tube with a plug at the bottom , on which the point rested , so that it could turn freely in the tube .
On exposing this arrangement to the wind the plate could take up a definite position , the angle between the normal and the wind direction being dependent upon the distance of the centre of bhe plate from the axis of rotation formed by the steel rod .
It was nob possible , , to measure this angle , becauss wind direction never remained steady for a sufficient time .
To overcome this difficulty , a flat disc , , was placed on top of the brass tube , .
and tlJe tube itseIf was pivoted in another piece of tube .
A definito line on the disc was kept facing the wind by a vane , and the an between the normal to the plate and this line was determined , as as possible , for various positions of the steel rod relatively to centre of the plate .
A vertical section is shown in fig. 6 and a pltn in fig. 7 .
In the following table the of incidence is denotod by , and tho distance between the centre of the plate and centre of pressure by act relations between and could not be following values are probably within a few degrees of truth , unless the wiud vane below the disc is influenced by pressure plate .
Whether this be so or not I have no judging .
On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface .
foot . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
, , . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
Reverting to the whirling machine , the inconsistencies shown between the series of results for the different positions appeared to be due to an eddy from the frame of the apparatus , or at least that seemed to me the onlyfeasible explanation .
To test this , experiments were made on the machine with the plate MN in the position shown in the annexed diagram , the wind being supposed to come from the right .
If be tho moment about in this position , the expression , which is equal numerically to force acting upon the plate when exposed normally , ought to be independent of , but such was not found to be the case .
a circle be taken with for and A be taken on the ri , so that OA is the direction of motion of the apparatus through the air , and the points be taken at , and respectively from A on the top , and be corresponding points on the bottom parl of the circle , then the value of was found to vary in the following manner:\mdash ; At the value was about 30 per cent. less than at , the value increasin uuiformly from to E. At the value was about 15 uniformly from to G. iffercnce within timits o is , perhaps , given by the fact thab the greatest moment produced by the wind upon a Robinson cup does not occur when the arm is perpendicular to the direction , but when there is a considerable inclination , and the fact that a ship can sail at a good pace when its direction makes with the wind direction an angle considerably less than is worth noting .
The position of the central line of pressure , as deduced from the experiments made on the whirling machine , is nearer the front edge of the plate than the position given by direct experiment with the natural wind .
It will be seen that in both cases the distance of the central line of pressure from the centre of the plate increases more rapidly with the same change in the angle of incidence , as that angle increases in magnitudc ; but that the angle at which the accelel.ation becomes apparent is greater in the natural wind experiments .
The foUowing llts , showing the relation between and ( see receding table ) , may be of interest ; they are deduced from positions II and :\mdash ; ffect oovering tpaper oedium cpreceding refer esmooth polished patex foot . . . . . . . .
1890 .
] On Pressnre upon an Inclined face .
an Inclined Surface .
251 1890 .
] On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface .
253 nexion with the experiments , but I think that damp air is conducive to a high , and dry air to a low , relative pressure .
On some days the values will llot vary to more than 1 or 2 per cent. throughout ; on others , under apparently precisely similar circumstances , variations of 10 or even 15 per cent. will occur within a few minutes .
It is perhaps possible that these changes may be due to variations in the viscosity of the air caused by a clIange in the dew point , or they may be caused by a circular eddy due to the wind coinciding in position with the path of the pressure plate .
The latter supposition seems the more probable , but , if so , it ought to appear sometimes in experiments with velocity instruments , and I have tried several air meters many times , and never detected anything approaching to a variation of 10 per cent. I must be remembered , however , that a change of 5 per cent. in the velocity would produce a change of 10 per cent. in the pressure .
These variations give an immense amount of trouble , because it is imperative that an experiment should be repeated many times before the mean value is considered correct .
Pressures .
The actual value of the pressure for any velocity is obtained thus .
In the normal position , the pressure for which has previously been denoted by100 , equilibrium was obtained when the moment due to the centrifugal force was ( ft. and lbs The bar was 27 feet 9 } inches the centre of the whirling machine , and the ce1ltre of the pressure plate 29 feet inches ; hence , since the centre of the pressure plate was 1 foot from its axis of rotation , the pressure is given in lbs. } ) the equation when is the velocity of the bar in feet per second .
This gives when is the velocity of the plate .
hanging to miles per hour , we have which gives about miles per hour as the velocity at which the is 1 lb. per sq .
This is , I believe , a lower value than has been previously given .
It is a Iower value tlJan the one determined at Hersham last but I had then no suspicion that the frame of the apparatus would influence the resuIt .
It is , however , borne out by the valnu obtained last year for smaller plates , and the experimental evidoaoe xvhich shows that a decrease of pressure per .
occurs as the of the plate is increased .
The following particulars may also be of interest ; the method by which they were obtained is described in a paper read before Jkyal Meteorological Society in May , 1890 .
At the centre of plate when exposed normally the increase of pressure at a rate of 60 miles an hour is equal to inches of water , and the decrease at the back , also at the centre close to the plate , is equal to of water .
These values were found with the plate at ths point ( see preceding diagram ) , and , taken in connexion with the fact , discovered I believe by Mr. Curtis , that the pressure in front decreases from the centre outwards , agree fairly well with the value for the pressure obtained in that position .
ong Narrow Vane .
Experiments have also been made with long narrow strips instead of with a square plate .
The size chosen was 4 feet long by 3 inchm broad , the surface thus being the same as the square plate .
Observations were made at angles of apart , in positions I$nd II , both with the shorter axis inclined to the wind , and also with the longer axis .
There was a difficulty in mounting these strips so that the supporting arm should not cause any disturbance of the motion of the air over the , strip , and still be sufficiently rigid to support the pressure .
The thickness of the wood was inch , and the edges were feathered off .
It will be seen that when the strip was exposed so that ibs shorter axis was inclined to the wind the longer axis necessarily parallel to the long arm of the whirling , and centre 2 feet from the end of the lever .
Under these the velocity would be nearly 4 per cent. greater , and the from 7\mdash ; 8 per cent. greater , than upon the square plate for the rate of rotation of the whirling machine .
This has been account in drawing the curve G. The support was obtained by a piece of flat iron , inch b which passed half way along the back of the wood , ths end of tk iron being bolted to the lcver .
values of the moment for position I were found to be than for position II , doubtless on account of the eddy from On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surfaee .
me , and accordingly the values .
position II only were for wing the curve .
RectaIlgle 4 feet by 3 inches .
orter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
fflorter Axis inclined to the Wind .
Position II . .
Values of moment .
132 , , 127 , 128 , 135 , 126 SO 130 125 , 123 S0 114 , 120 99 , 100 , 102 72 SO 37 SO Position I. Position I. Position I. Position I. Longer Axis inclined to the Wind. .
Position II .
Angle of incidence .
Values of moment .
126 , 129 , 125 , 126 Position I. The curve , fig. 12 , therefore shows the moment about , rather thn the normal component of the pressure , but , the strip being only 3 inches broad , the departure of the central line of pressure from the of the strip cannot canse any very serious difference .
The actual upon a surface of this kind is much greater than upon an qnal surface when collected in a compact form , such as a square or , the difference this case being more than 20 per cent. This in accordance with previous experiments that have been made subject .
The dotted line shows the value of the normal component given by Bayleigh , the curves being made to agree at the beginning and .
The agreement between the theoretical and curves be marked if both gave the same quantity , for the moment to the Wind .
On Pressure upon an Inclined Surface .
foot . . . . . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
probable that the flattening of the curve about the an of the corresponding departure from symmetry in the relation between and for that , is accidental .
The curve is obviously wrong at , where the normal component should be zero , but I have sought in vain for any explanation of this , and can only put it down to the eddy from the frame , which has caused so much trouble in other ways .
It is not due to any want of balance , so far as gravity is concerned .
Several trials have been made during the course of the 6xperiments to see whether the sliding bar would come to the zora mark when the plate and balance weight were removed from the appustns , and it has always been found to do so with very fair .
Care has been taken to see that the moving parts were balanced for weight , and although the pressure upon the , hnd consequent deflexion , has no doubt slightly albered the while the apparatus was moving , the error so caused is very , at least so far as the foot squaI'e plate is concerned .
IS bonclusion , I must say that I am sorry not to have been able to Op the different inconsistencies better , and nob to have been abl to draw the curves for the component with a greater triuty of their being accurate .

