]\gt ; Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
approximately at C. The vaIues of for different diamagnetic substances , calculated from the experimental values , are much smaller than .
This indioates possibly that the kinetic energy of the electrons.in a metal is much les@ than that of the molecules of a gas at the same temperature .
Another explaining the difference to suppose that the atoms are paramagnetic , so that is smaller than that due to the free electrons alone .
In conclusion , it may be said that , vrhile the theory indicates clearly that free electrons should produce diamagnetic susceptibility , the electron theory of the optical and electrical properties of metals is not in a sufficiently satisfactory condition to provide reliable data with which to compare results deduced from the observed susceptibilities .
The Pressure upon the Poles of Metauic and Composite Arcs , including an Bnquiry into the ctions consequent uport Electron By W. G. DUFFIBLD , D.Sc , Professor of Physioe , T. H. BURNHAM , B.Sc. , and A. H. DAVIS , B.Sc. , Post-Graduate Students in Physics , University College , Reading .
( Communicated by Prof. O. W. Riehar\amp ; on , F.RS .
Received December 16 , 1919 .
) Experiments upon the pressure experienced by the poles of a carbon arc* led to the theory , which was put forward tentatively , that it was due to the recoil consequent upon the projection of eleotrons from t , he poles .
Experiments have subsequently been made upon metallic arcs , using poles of iron , silver , copper , and an alloy of silver and copper , and also upon a composite arc in which one pole was of silver and the other of carbon .
In dealing with the carbon arc it was found possible to eliminate the effects of the electromagnetic influence of the rest of the circuit and of the earth 's magnetic field , by employing what was called the double-arc method ; but in the present set of experiments the rapid melting of the metal rods made it expedient in the majority of cases to employ the less direct singlearc method , which had also been used in the carbon investigation , the necessary allowances for the disturbing influences being made in the manner * Duffield , Burnham and Davis , ' Phil. Trana , ' , p. 109 ( 1919 ) .
Pressure upon the Potes of Metallic and Composite Arcs .
327 already cnbed .
In the case of the copper arc a satisfactory series was also obtained by using the arcs .
The fil.st set of observations was obtained by Mr. Those .
H. Burnham , B.Sc. , and the second set by Mr. A. H. Davis , B.Sc. The technique involved in the measurement of such a small force as the fraction of a dine was difficult to acquire , but the earlier experiments upon carbon arcs which were carried out by the writer and these two observers provided the necessary and indispensable experience .
In order to show how the results were arrived at typical series of observations are recorded in Table I ( Burnham , single.arc method ) and Table ( Davis , double-arc method ) .
In the former method the suspension , which was bifilar , suffered to a small extent from the fact that constant altered slightly as the material of the suspended pole burnt away and lightened the load .
At the top of the first Table is set forth the weight of the suspended portion of the apparatus , the distance apart of the fibres at the top ( a ) and at the bottom ) , the length of the arm measured from the centre of the suspension to the centre of the metallic pole , and the length of the two fibres .
In order to vary the sensitivity , and were suitably altered .
Table I.\mdash ; Single Arc Method .
Observer , Mr. Burnham .
Silver Arc. Pressure upon Anode .
The column headed ' ' twist\ldquo ; indicates the twist in degrees which it was necessary to apply to the torsion head to bring the swinging arm back to Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
its original position .
In the fifth column is orded the total force in dynes which would be necessary to give the observed twist if applied to the extremity of the arm .
In the single-arc method the couple is due to three causes : ( 1 ) the pressure upon the pole , including convection effects ; 2 ) the vertical component of the earth 's magnetic field acting upon the current in the swinging arm ; and ( 3 ) the electromagnetic effect of the rest of the circuit upon the current in the movable parts ; hence it is necessary to separate out ( 1 ) from ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) .
( 2 ) was eliminated by placing the fixed pole first upon the east and then upon the west side of the suspended pole , and taking the mean of the observations .
[ The actual manner in which the reduction was done is shown by diagram 1 , which however refers to the iron arc when the suspended pole was .
negative ; the circles and crosses represent the readings for different currents when the anode was respectively on the east and west of the suspended pole .
] In column 6 are recorded the ordinates Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic and Composite Arcs .
329 of the mean curve , and they indicate the force corrected for the earth 's magnetic field .
Reference to the earlier work upon the carbon arc will reveal how the correction was calculated for ( 3 ) , the electromagnetic influence of the rest of the circuit upon the swinging arm , and column 7 contains the value of the pressure upon the pole corrected for this effect also .
Table II is self-explanatory ; it deals with Davis 's observations and notes upon them .
In both Tables typical results only are given ; numerical values may be obtained in other cases from the diagrams .
Table II.\mdash ; Silver Arc. Observer , Mr. Davis .
Dovlle Arc Method.\mdash ; Owing to vigorous melting , no definite result could be obtained , but the following was indicated:\mdash ; Current .
Volts .
Arc lengt .
Pressure upon anode .
amps .
26 mm. Compensated Single Arc Method.\mdash ; In the figure the movable parts are shown in plan .
The copper rod is suspended centrally at , and provided with a silver pole-piece ( shown in black ) .
The other silver pole is shown in outline in different positions in different experiments .
The torsions were measured for dispositions and and also and ; the difference between and and between and is a measure of the pressure upon the pole free from electromagnetic and earth effects .
Results for 3 mm. and 4 amp .
arc .
Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
The Diagrams .
( a ) The Anode.\mdash ; Diagram 2 illustrates the results of the experiments upon copper , silver , and iron , as far as the pressures upon the anode are concerned .
The curve for a carbon arc previously obtained by Mr. Burnham by the single-arc method is introduced for the purpose of comparison .
The curves have been corrected as far as possible for all extraneous influences , with the exception of convection currents .
In each case , in which the single arc was used , a preliminary diagram like that reproduced in diagram 1 was drawn with the object of eliminating the effect of the earth 's magnetic field ; the amount of concordance between the individual readings is better gauged from that diagram than from diagram 2 , since the latter gives only the mean smoothed curves obtained in the manner illustrated by diagram 1 , after allowing for electromagnetic effects .
It was shown in the discussion of the carbon arc experiments that it was probable that an approximate correction for convection curoents could be obtained by taking the zero for the ordinates where the straight part of the curve produced backwards met the vertical axis .
The conYection currents will not be the same in the case of all the arcs investigated , and if the above procedure be followed we shall add to the observed anode pressures dine for carbon , dynes for silver , dine for iron , dynes for copper .
I am not entirely satisfied with this , but as the effects of convection amounts become less important in the case of metallic arcs where the reaction is large , the error is not likely to be serious .
We note from that all the metallic arcs show greater pressures than the carbon arc .
For small currents the greatest pressure is associated with the iron arc , but a6 higher current strengths the pressure upon the copper anode is the greatest , at 10 amperes the order being copper , silver , iron , and carbon .
Copper , iron , and carbon exhibit a more nearly linear relationship than silver .
( b ) The Cathode.\mdash ; In diagram 3 are collected the cathode pressures for the four elements and again it appears that they in the order copper , silver , iron , and carbon for currents above amperes , below that value there is some uncertainty .
In confirmation of the high value for the copper arc find some early prelinlinary observations of Burnham 's which give approxiately 2 dynes as the mean value of anode and cathode pressures at 6 amperes .
These curves also differ in shape , the graph for the iron cathode being less linear than the others , but since the correction for convection currents involves a straightening of the curves , as in the case of the carbon arc , it is considered that , if this correction could be made , they would not show an appreciable departure from a linear relationship , except in Pressure upon the Poles of Metatlic-and Composite Arcs .
331 : Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
the case of the iron arc .
By prolonging th6 straight parts of the es back to the pressure axis the corrections are found to be as follows : carbon dine , iron dine , silver dine , copper dynes .
DISCUSSION or BESULTS .
By Prof. W. G. DUFFIELD .
The Nature of the les for Reaction .
In the discussion of the carbon arc experiments , reasons were given for attributing the pressure to a.recoil , and careful attention was directed to the nature of the particles whose expulsion occasioned the measured force .
For the argument the earlier paper should be consulted : briefly the following considerations were in favour of the view that the particles were electrons and not carbon atoms:\mdash ; 1 .
The value of , calculated upon certain assumptions which appear nate , was of the order of nitude associated with the electron .
2 .
The recoil diminished with increasing arc length , whereas the loss of carbon from the poles increased very greatly with the arc length .
3 .
If a recoil due to atomic expulsion were possible , it would have been 50 to 100 times greater than that observed .
Unfortunately we do not possess the data concerning the drop of potential across the cathode pole faces of metallic arcs , which are necessary for the evaluation of in the present experiments ; but , making the very rough assumption that they are half the total P.Ds .
between the poles , we obtain from the formula .
The values , and for copper , silver , and iron respectively , which are of the order of magnitude associated with the electron rather than with the atom .
It is of interest here to refel to a recent investigation whose object was to test whether the expulsion of moleoules in the ordinary process of evaporation into the free atmosphere occasions a measurable reaction .
While it indicates that the arc recoil is not likely to be due to the projection of uncharged molecules , it raises another interesting question .
Several methods were employed , amongst others water was boiled on the pan of a balance , and an apparatus in the form of Hero 's engine was used in which the sum of the areas of the apertures was equal to that of the evaporating surface , but in neither case was any recoil observed ; this is because the ejected molecules push aside those of the atmosphere and prevent them from communicating their momenta to the surface .
If , therefore , we agree that the ejection of electrons does cause a recoil , it remains to argue why they should be capable of this .
In view of the ionisation in the arc , we can hardly presume that the electrons go through without touching the molecules , so the Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic and Composite Arcs .
383 probability is that the original electron 's momentum is passed on from atom to atom and that we may regard the atoms as stepping-stones for the electrons in their track aoross the arc .
It is worth noting here that it appears probable that , if evaporation could be produced at such a rate that the number of vapour molecules expelled per second exceeds twice the number directed towards the surface from above , an excess pressure would be obtained .
Calculation shows that this rate of evaporation might be reached in the carbon arc if the total amount of carbon lost from the catho , de in a 10-ampere arc were confined to an area of 1/ 63 sq .
mm. on .
that pole , but as the area of the bright spot is obviously considerably larger than 1 m as it is known that 66 per cent. of the loss occurs from the hot contour of the carbon , this is not favourable to the view that the recoil is due to molecular expulsion .
Belation between Electronic Atomic erties .
If we accept the view that the projection in metallio arcs is electronic it becomes a matter of great interest to enquire whether there is any evident relation between the mechanical properties of the ejected electrons and of the atoms composing the poles\mdash ; between their momenta or their kinetic energies , for example .
If , as is generally accepted , the temperature of the poles of an arc corresponds to the boiling point of the material composing them , we may assume that the average kinetic energy of the molecules at the pole-face is equal to that of the neighbouring air molecules .
Thus , the molecular velocity of the of the poles ( molecular weight ) at the temperature of the melting pole absolute ) is given by , where is the velocity of the hydrogen molecule at C. , henoe , where The molecular momentum , at the same temperature , is given by HMV , where and is the mass of the hydrogen atom .
The kinetic energy of the molecule is or , which is equal to this is independent of the number of atoms in the molecule .
From the observed reaction pressure at 10 amperes we can calculate the momentum and the kinetic energy of the electron .
Since the number of electronic charges , , equivalent to the passage of 10 coulombs between the poles is .
we obtain the momentum associated with each electron by dividing the observed recoil by this quantity .
By further dividing this by * It i$ sq .
mm. according to Beich 's formul .
Zeitschr vol. 7 , p. 73 ( 1906 ) .
Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
the mass of the electron we obtain the with which it leaves the pole .
This is on the assumption that all the current is electron-borne : but if , instead of charges , are carried by electrons from the cathode and the remainder of the current is carried by positively charged molecules moving in the opposite direction , this velocity must be multiplied by The loss of momentum from the cathode is in 1 second , and this must be balanced by the pressure applied through the torsion of the suspension .
If the electrons are emitted normal to a hemispherical pole face , which is not very different from random projection from a small area of a flat pole faoe , we have , whence the electronic momentum , and the electronic velocity .
The electronic energy In Tables III and are set forth the momenta and energies of molecules and electrons calculated in this way for and If , instead of being monatomic , the vapour molecule comprises two , three , or four atoms , the above molecular velocities are to be divided by or , and the molecular momenta to be multiplied by the same quantities .
The molecular kinetic energies remain unaffected .
If the electronic emission were always normal to the pole face , the electronic energies above should be divided by 4 , thereby improving the agreement with molecular energies .
appears that the molecular momenta are too high , and their energies too low , for good agreement with similar electronic quantities .
But the discordances are not such as to be inoonsistent with the view that the phenomenon is of a photo-electric or thermionic character , the " " free\ldquo ; electrons sharing in the heat energy of the poles in the manner discussed by Richardson .
Since the electronic energies are consistently greater than the molecular energies , there some suspioion that the energies may be shared according to the quantum , rather than the equipartition , theory , which would seem to indicate that , before escaping , the electrons rotate in orbits about the atoms .
Nature of the Electronic Discharge .
The electron velocities yielded by this investigation are of the order of magnitude associated with other modes of electronic projection .
It seems established that different atoms eject them with different velocities in arc , and it appears that , though there is no simple connection between the velocities and the atomic weights or atomic numbers , it is in general true that the heavier elements emit them with greater volocities than carbon does .
This suggests that the velocity may be an atomic property rather than a property of the incident light ; instability occasioning the projection arising , perhaps , from the acQess of rons from the source of current Pressure the Poles of Composite Arcs .
335 Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
supply .
But , on the other hand , as we havsaid , the phenomenon is ot obviously inconsistent with the view that it is of a photo-electric or thermionic character .
The inconsistency might be less if we knew the pro- portion of current electron-borne and the distribution of the projected electrons about the axis of the arc .
In favour of the phenomenon being thermionic , we have the fact that , in order to maintain an arc , it is necessary to keep the cathode temperature , high ; moving the carbons so that a fresh portion is substituted for the hot cathode , the arc at once goes out .
On the other hand , if we regard the phenomenon as photo-electric and calculate the mean wave-length of the light , which is effective in promoting the emission , from the equation , we find the following vaJues , taking the threshold wave-lengths for copper and carbon as 3090 and 2600 A.U. respectively:\mdash ; For .
for copper , 2000 A.U. for carbon .
For .
for copper , .
for carbon .
The values for copper represent light far in the ultra-violet , but it may be that they are possible values , since the question of the light penetrating from the vapour to the poles can scarcely arise in the arc .
The carbon results are quite satisfactory in this respect , but , on the whole , the evidence is not fully in accord with the photo-electric explanation of the emission .
The possibility that " " polar lines\ldquo ; in arc spectra are due to the same action as that which occasions the electronic emission has been discussed by the writer in the earlier paper upon the carbon arc , where copper and iron lines also received attention .
As regards the choice of the value of , it was found in the case of the carbon arc , that the phenomenon appeared to be more in accord with the hypothesis that , at the cathode , half only of the current was carried by electrons , the remainder being carried by positively charged ions moving towards it .
As the chemical interactions become important in this respect , and as little is known about them in metallic arcs , we must await further evidence before making a choice .
The probability is that , if is not equal to unity , it is a simple fraction .
It may vary with the nature of the metal .
The above discussion naturally reopens the question whether the phenomenon of boiling may not be connected with the energy necessary to expel an electron from the atom or from the surface of the evaporating metal .
The present research certainly suggests that some such connection exists in the special circumstances under which a metal is vapourised in the Pressure upon the Pole.of Metallic and Composite Arcs .
387 arc , but there does not seem to be any other evidence which indicates that the same holds good under normal conditions of boiling .
Mechanisrn whereby a may be Heated Radiation .
The hypothesis of atomic or molecular motions arising from electronic projection is worthy of close examination .
The mechanism whereby the addition of radiant heat to a gas increases the energy of translation of its molecules remains obscure , but if the radiation falling upon an atom is such that it can cause the ejection of an electron by some such process as photoelectric action , we can picture one means whereby the velocity of the atom may be increased , and the gas therefore heated ; the amount should be calculable if the energy of the electron is known .
If there is none of the type of radiation in the incident beam which the gas is capable of absorbing , it will not be heated\mdash ; unless light-pressure is , under these conditions , capable of producing an effect upon the velocity of the atom .
Presumably , any radiation which is absorbed is absorbed at the frequency * represented by an absorption band in the gas or vapour , and we should look for ionisation when absorption accompanied by heating occurs .
There may be another type of absorption which occurs without ionisation and which may be called resonance absorption ; it would be expected to be unaccompanied by rise of temperature , but it would be interesting to test this point experimentally .
In the ionisation type of absorption , which we should expect to find more particularly in ultra-violet regions , the electron shot off may either strike a atom and cause it also to participate in the heat motion , or it may meet a charged atom and enter it , in which case it will cause it to emit precisely that type of radiation which it originally absorbed from the incident beam ; this may be the origin of ' ' scattering The total kinetic energy of the affected atoms is ultimately of course equal to the radiant energy which has disappeared .
Assuming Newtonian mechanics , we may calculate the order of the number of molecules affected:\mdash ; The amount of energy necessary to raise the temperature of one gas molecule through 1o C. is given on p. 333 as ergs , whereas the energy of a projected electron is of the order of ergs ( this is nearly the value for iron ) , hence the emission of one electron with a velocity of about cm .
per second will provide sufficient energy to raise the temperature of 25,000 molecules through 1o C. The absence of heating when -rays are passed through a gas is due to the small percentage of molecules which are ionized , only about 1 in being affected .
The usual absence of observed ionization when a stream of radiant VOL XCVn .
Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
energy is passed through a gas is probably dub to the small amount of absorption , as it is notoriously difficult to heat by such means .
The upper layers of the atmosphere are , however , ionized by solar radiation , and it is possible that the temperature inversion which is frequently observed in the upper regions of the stratosphere is partly due to the consequent heating .
Evidence of another character is afforded by the experiments of Wood and Rayleigh upon the nature of the scattered light an absorption band .
The former showed that there is complete absence of polarization in the light scattered from the centre of the band , and the latter added the fact that the light scattered from the wings of the band showed increasing amounts of polarisation as the distance from the centre increased .
The interpretation may well be that the central scattering is of the nature described above , which would obviously not be polarized , but that the wing scattering may be of the reflected character , when the polarisation is the result of geometric considerations .
An interesting statement , which lends support to the above of the mechanism whereby a gas is heated is iven by Lewis*in the following words:\mdash ; " " Hughes has found that the ionisation of air sets in at a wave-length of 1350 .
This is likewise the position of the absorption band of oxygen in the ultra-violet .
We may conclude , therefore , that the effect in air is due to Lhe ionisation of oxygen , and hence we should be able to calculate the ionisation potential of from the expression .
The value of thus obtained is volts , which is identical with the observed value The matter is one of extreme interest , and is the subject of further investigation in the writer 's laboratory .
Anomalous Effect in the Iron Arc. It was observed by Burnham , in his experiments with the iron arc , that the formation of a turbulent drop of molten iron upon the pole increased the pressure very reatly .
Davis subsequently tested this point carefully , conducting experiments over a wide range of current strengths , and obtained values of the maximum pressures experienced by the poles ; using the doublearc method , in which the supply of heat is greater than in the other , he found it almost impossible to obtain readings consistent with the low values given by the single-arc method , when the poles were less heated .
Tho pressure appeared to be low at first , but as time went on and the molten drop formed , the pressures became steadily greater , maximum values being obtained just before the molten drop fell off , when the arc was roaring violently .
It is clear from diagrams 4 and 5 that , under these special conditions , the pressure * Lewis , ' A System of Physical Chemistry , ' vol. 3 , p. 129 .
Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic and Composite Arcs .
389 is increased enormously , being at 10 amperes , roughly seven times reater than that previously measured for the iron arc .
The excellent agreement between Curves not corrected for convection effects .
the observationffi the two observers for the molten poles is very satisfactory considering the difficulty of the experiments .
The relationship between the pressure and the current is linear for anode pressures , but for those upon the cathode nearly parabolic .
Corrections have not been introduced for currents , but it is not considered that they would be large enough to modify the shape of the curve appreciably , as they do in the case of the normal curves ( vide carbon arc paper ) .
It was noticed that the arc was more like a narrow divergent jet when it sprang from a molten patch .
As the measurements made at widely different times by the two observers are in excellent agreement , it does not seem that the size of the drop is of paramount importance , but experiments designed to test this point directly were not made .
A careful study of the appearance of a horizontal iron arc in the quiescent and turbulent states was made by the writer with the help of eutenant Helsby .
An image of the arc was focussed upon a ruled screen , and the arc length and current kept constant .
A molten drop appeared first upon Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
the anode , but there seemed to be a molten upon the cathode at .
all times , even though it did not at first collect into a drop ; this may , however , have been an optical effect .
When very narrow poles were used , the heating was more intense , and the drops more rapidly developed .
When rounded drops appeared on both poles the turbulent state ensued and the arc became noisy .
The drops were seldom spherical , but appeared to be subjected to a pressure which flattened them considerably , this may be additional evidence of the pressure within the arc , but is possibly a surface tension effect .
The deformation was more noticeable on some occasions than on others , and it is believed that there was then a bubble of gas within the molten mass .
On stopping the current , the deformed drop frequently swelled out to a spherical shape , sometimes bursting and emitting the gas within .
It then solidified , leaving a crater behind it .
Some of the ends were knocked off and found to contain cavities , the curious thing about them being that they were not always spherical but often deformed like the outer surface of the drop , as though by pressure along the axis of the arc .
These were usually rather deep down ( 1 mm. to 2 mm. ) below the spot from which the arc sprang ; the material surrounding them must have solidified while the arc was still running , and as the drop grew in size by the melting of more iron , they gradually receded from the great source of heat .
The potential difference between the poles increased slightly when the arc passed from the quiescent to the turbulent state , the amount being about 4 volts .
Experiments with fixed poles were necessary to discover this difference .
The only estion the writer can make to account for this anomalous value of the pressure in the iron arc is that the rate of molecular projection so increased that a larger number of molecules left unit area of the surface of the pole than twice the number of molecules directed towards the surface from without , in which case , as we have seen ( p. 333 ) , a recoil due to molecular projection might be occasioned .
This receives some support from the smallness of the area from which the turbulent iron arc , but this explanation is not put forward with complete conviction .
It is interesting to note that Hagenbach and claim to have found six different forms of the copper arc , that there are three different potential drops which may occur at the anode , and that with each of these it is possible to have two different cathode potential drops ; these may be related to the different ionisation potentials associated with any one element .
They observed similar variations with other metallic arcs .
* Hagenback and Veillon , ' Phys. Zeitschr vol. 12 , p. 1016 ( 1911 ) .
Pressvxe upon the Poles of Metatlic and Composite Arcs .
341 Experinunts with Alloy .
A test was made with an alloy composed of 80 per cent. silver and 20 per cent. copper in the usual way , both poles being of the same composition .
The results are given in diagram 6 .
DIAGRAM 6 .
Iz Pressure upon the poles of an aIloy of 80 per cenh silver , 20 per cent. copper .
When the suspended pole was positive , the pressure upon it was intermediate between the pressures measured for copper and silver when tested separately .
These results are consistent with the photo-electric view of the phenomenon , since Hughes states.that with alloys the photo-electric effect is intermediate between the effects of the constituent metals and varies linearly with the amount of either .
Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
When the suspended pole was negative , the pressures approximated more closely to those observed when the poles were of pure silver , the effect copper being , if to reduce the pressure , as would be expected at low current strengths .
Composite Arcs .
Under this heading we include the study of arcs in which the positive pole was of different material from that composing the negative pole .
Burnham made an extended examination of the silver-carbon arc , using each pole in turn as anode and cathode , and testing the recoil under current strengths ranging from 2 to 10 amperes .
Davis , using the difficult double arc method , measured the pressure experienced by the poles of a copper-carbon arc of 3 mm. length and 5 current .
Using the uncompensated single arc method , the results shown in diagrams 7 , 8 , 9 , and 10 were obtained , the top and bottom curves being drawn for the east and west positions of the fixed pole , colTections for the electromagnetic effect of the rest of the circuit having previously been made .
The mean curve gives the result corrected for the influence of the earth 's magnetic field .
It will be noticed that the curves are divergent when the anode was being tested , whether of silver or carbon , but more nearly parallel or even convergent when the suspended pole was the cathode .
The reason for this has not been discovered .
In diagram 11 shown the values thus obtained for the anodes side by side with those given by arcs in which both poles were of the same metaL The highest values were obtained when both electrodes were of silver , the lowest when both were of carbon .
The substitution of a carbon cathode in the silver arc led to a reduction in the recoil as high values of the current were reached , though up to 4 amperes the curves are practically coincident .
Similarly , substituting silver for the cathode in a pure carbon arc led to an increase in the recoil , which became more pronounced as the current strength increased .
The effect of changing the cathode is to alter the recoil upon the anode in accordance with the tendency of the material of the cathode , when used alone , to give a high or a low pressure within the arc .
Similar results were obtained when the suspended pole was the cathode and the anode changed from silver to carbon :Diagram 1 shows that , when the cathode was of silver , the effects obtained with a silver and a carbon anode were nearly equal up to 4 amperes , but that , at larger current strengths , the carbon anode gave results very much lower than those obtained with a silver-silver arc .
Also , the substitution of silver for the anode in a carbon-carbon arc effected an increase of pressure , which was Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic and Composite Arcs .
343 Composite Arcs .
Pressures upon the poles of a silver-carbon arc Prof Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
very marked at 10 amperes .
In all cases the pressure was chiefly determined by the material constituting the suspended the nature of the other exerting a secondary influence which became increasingly important as the current strength increased .
The only suggestion which can be made to account for this is that there is -Amperes he poles of pure and composite arca ation upon a copper-carbon arc .
transfer of material between the poles and a certain amount of condensation of the material of either pole upon the other , and that the contaminated poles behave as though they were an alloy or a mixture of the two metals .
Deposition of this sort has been observed by the writer .
We have always insisted upon the important part played by the nature of the gas or vapour between the poles , and its chemical reaction with the material of the poles ; it is possible that these interactions are modified as Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic Cornposite Arcs .
345 the arc space becomes impregnated with the vapour of a foreign element and that there is a change in the proportion of the current which is atom Comparison of the pressures upon the poles of pure and composite arcs .
The circle shows a single observation upon a copper-carbon arc .
borne .
The greater the number of electrons oarrying the current , the greater the recoil pressure .
The Potential Diference between the Poles when the Illaterial of One is Varied .
Diagram 13 has been drawn from the observations already quoted .
It shows the variation of the potential difference between the poles when arcs of carbon-carbon , carbon-silver , and silver-silver were employed under different conditions of current strength .
The individual observations have been omitted , and only the mean curves shown .
Altering the nature of the anode has a much greater effect upon the P.D. Prof. Duffield and Messrs. Burnham and Davis .
than altering the cathode , thus :altering the anode from silver to carbon when the cathode is silver increases the P.D. by 21 volts , whereas 1 3 8 9 1 The potential difference between the poles of pure and composite arcs .
altering the cathode from silver to carbon when the anode is silver , increases the P.D. by only 4 volts .
Also , altering the anode from silver to carbon when the cathode is carbon , increases the P.D. by 32 volts , whereas altering the cathode from silver to carbon when the anode is carbon , increases the P.D. by 15 volts .
hese values are for a current of 10 amperes .
The dependence of the P.D. upon the nature of the anode is partly concerned with the projection of electrons from that pole against the current , which acts as a back E.M.F. at the anode surfa .
We have previously instanced a case in which the P.D. of a carbon arc was reduced by diminishing the heating of the anode , which was accomplished by substituting a rotating carbon surface for fixed pole .
* The increase in the P.D. consequent upon the substitution of carbon for a metal , is due to the readiness with which electrons are emitted from a hot carbon surface .
Comparing , 12 , and 13 , it is interesting to note that the lowest recoil pressure is given with the carbon-carbon arc , which requires the highest potential difference between the terminals , and that the highest pressure , given by the silver-silver arc , is associated with the smallest potential difference ; also , that the substitution of carbon for silver increases the total potential difference , but diminishes the recoil upon each pole .
The equation relating the recoil pressure to the potential drop outwards *Duffield and Waller , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 92 , p. 247 ( 1916 ) .
Pressure upon the Poles of Metatlic and Composite Arcs .
347 across the pole face requires that the former should be proportional to the square root of the latter ( vide earlier paper ) ; it is important , therefore , to emphasise that , as Duddell showed , the potential drop across the cathode pole face is only one item , and by no means the largest , in the aggregate which constitutes the total P.D. between the poles .
[ Supplementary note added April 20 , 1920 . .
D.\mdash ; As it may not at once be obvious that a pressure upon the poles is not to be expected from the motion of ions arising solely from the electrostatic forces within the arc , it may be useful to deal briefly with this point .
An ion starting from rest with a charge in an electric field , supposed uniform , exerts a pull upon the pole of opposite sign equal to .
If it falls freely for a time , , the velocity with which it strikes the pole is and the rate of change of the momentum delivered to the electrode .
Consequently , for ions starting from rest and attaining a velocity solely on account of the electric field in which it finds itself , it follows that there is balance between the effect of the electrostatic force and the rate of change of momentum delivered to the pole .
In particular , we should not expect any additional pressure upon the anode due to the bombardment of negative ions whose motion arises solely from the attraction of that pole .
Further , at the anode electronic projection may be intense on account of the high temperature , but , since the electrons are brought to rest at a short distance from the pole face by the electrostatic forces , these nothing to the reaction , the initial recoil being balanced by the attraction of the pole between the instants of projection and of their being brought to rest .
At the cathode the conditions are different\mdash ; the electronic projection there occasions a reaction which is not balanced by any attraction between that pole and the electron .
I think that , in view of the above considerations , we may safely rule out account the possibility of any considerable part of the observed effect being due to anything in the nature of the so-called " " electric wind and it .appears that the possible sources of pressure upon the poles are considerably narrowed .
This is supported by the observation mentioned in the earlier paper , that a reaction was observed upon the cathode in an highly exhausted vacuum tube .
Another point to which attention may be drawn is that , though it is possible to conceive an olated hot pole , though ejecting torrents of electrons , being in equilibrium with the surrounding atmosphere , 'there is good reason expect its equilibrium to be disturbed if it is connected to the negative 348 Pressure upon the Poles of Metallic and Cornposite Arcs .
terminal of a source of current supply and th positive terminal brou near it , that is to say , if we pass from the condition of a hot body emitting thermionically to the conditions in an arc\mdash ; it is known that some of tha projected electrons ( either isolated or attached to atoms to form negative ions ) get across to the positive pole , since this is the means whereby current is transported , and it seems inevitable that this stream of material particles ( if electrons can be called material represents a stream of momentum outwards from the cathode ; as this stream only ceases when it meets the anode .
we expect to find an equal reaction upon that pole .
Remembering that the momentum given up to that pole is unaffected by the electrostatic forces encountered by the ions moving freely within the arc , as we have just , shown , the only reason why we may find unequal pressures upon the poles .
lies in the efficacy of convection currents to sweep a fraction of the momentum out of the arc .
This is , I think , a point of some interest ; as long as the ultimate reactionl of the electrons projected from the cathode is directed against air molecules , .
we may have equilibrium ( as there is in a radiometer tube when the gas pressure is high ) , but , with the flow of the electric current , their momentum .
is only finally discharged ainst the solid anode , so that there is an unbalanced stream of momentum from the cathode ( as there is in a radiometer tube sufficiently exhausted for the hot gas molecules to strike : the sides of the vessel ) ; this it is which gives rise to the observed reaction .
It is to be remarke that light pressure does not seem to be for the observed effect , unless we regard photo-electric action due to the incidence of light waves as included under this head , because we should expect to find the greatest pressure upon the carbon poles , both the temperature is higher than in the case of metallic arcs , and the power consumed by it for a given current is far the largest .
On the whole , though in so complicated a phenomenon as the electric arc , it would be vain to .
attempt to speak with conviction , I think that , though there are still difficulties , the balance of evidence favours electronic projection from the cathode as responsible for the recoil usually observed .
Radiometer action and evaporation of molecules have been dealt with previously , and found to be improbable .
] The interest taken by Prof. O. W. Richardson in this research has been a stimulus to the writer responsible for the theoretical discussion , which he very gratefully acknowledges .
Mr. A. H. Davis was in receipt of a grant from the Committee of the Privy Council for Scientific and Industrial Research , to whom the thanks of the authors are accorded .

