200 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Crustacea.\#151 ; By EdwardJ .
Miers , F.Zoological Department , British Museum .
( Plate XI .
) The species of Crustacea hitherto obtained at Kerguelen Island are so few in number that they cannot be supposed to represent in an adequate manner this department of the Pauna .
The Antarctic Expedition under Capt. Sir J ames Ross visited the island in the winter ( May and June 1810 ) , and of the species of Crustacea in the British Museum , apparently brought back by officers of that expedition from \lt ; e Kerguelen Land , " two are new to science .
A brief summary of the results obtained by the Challenger Expedition by dredging in the neighbourhood of Kerguelen Island , was given by the late Dr. B. von Willemoes-Suhm in a letter to Professor C. Th. E. von Siebold , published in the Zeitschrift f. Wissenschaft .
Zool. xxiv .
, 1871 .
Erom it we learn that upon the island itself nothing was found except a small Bracliyurous Decapod ( probably the Ilalicarcinusplanatus ) .
The inhabitants of the 1st zone ( not deeper than 40 faths .
) comprised several species of Serolis , Sphceroma , Arcturus , some , several species of Caprella , and some Fycnogonida .
Richer and more interesting results were obtained in the 2nd zone ( 40 to 120 faths .
) , where and , very remarkable Amphipoda , My sides , and a Nehalia were discovered .
The German Surveying and Transit of Venus Expedition dredged off the open coast , and collected , for the most part , along the rather exposed shores in the neighbourhood of Betsy Cove .
They entered also Vulcan Cove and Eoundry Branch , but whether they searched at all for Crustacea in these sheltered inlets is uncertain .
The collectors who accompanied respectively the English and American Transit of Venus Expeditions , were advisedly unprovided for dredging in deep water , and consequently their operations were confined to the beach , the laminarian zone , and depths external to the latter , not exceeding 10 fathoms .
Mr. Eaton obtained 10 species , of which 7 were new to science .
Dr. Kidder with more limited opportunities for work , obtaining 7 species , added 3 to the fauna ( 2 of them were new to science ) , and thus raised the total to 15 .
No species of terrestrial Isopoda , of the family have been discovered on this island .
Among the 15 indigenous species , several are characteristic of the Antarctic region , which in its widest sense embraces Tierra del Euego , the Ealklands , and the lands and islands of the Antarctic Ocean .
Ilalicarcinus planatus and Sphceroma gig as are known to inhabit the seas of Patagonia and New Zealand , and are especially abundant in the former area ; Cassidina emarginata is indigenous also to CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MIERS .
the Ealklands and Patagonia ; Jcera pubescens occurs at the Ealklands , and latifronshas been obtained from New Zealand and the Aucklands .
In addition to the Kerguelen Island species , I have included septem-carincita from the Crozets in the present paper .
DECAPODA .
Pinnotherida : .
Halicarcinus planatus .
Cancer planatus , Eab .
Ent .
Syst. 1793 , ii .
, 416 .
Leucosia planata , idem , Ent .
Syst. Suppl. 1798 , 350 .
Hymenosoma leachii , Guer.-Men .
, Icon .
Peg .
Anim .
iii .
Crust .
10 , pi .
x. , 1 ; id. , Voy .
Coq .
1828 , ii .
22 .
j Halicarcinus planatus , White , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1846 , xviii .
178 , pi .
ii .
, 1 ; idem , List Crust .
Brit. Mus. 1847 , p. 33 ; Dana , U. S. Explor .
Exped .
1852 , xiii .
, Crust , part i. , 385 , pi .
xxiv .
, 7 ; M. Edwards , Ann. Sc. Not .
1853 , ser. 3 , xx .
223 ; Heller , Beise der Osterr .
Ereg .
Novara , 1865 , Crust , p. 66 ; Miers , Cat. N. Zeal .
Crust .
1876 , p. 49 ; Smith , Bull .
U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
57 .
Hymenosoma tridentatum , Jacq .
\amp ; Lucas , Voy .
del ' Astrolabe , 1853 , Zool. iii .
Crust , p. 60 , pi .
v. 27 .
Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island , very common everywhere on the ( Eaton ) ; on rocky beaches and at 5 fathoms ( Kidder ) .
Also Tierra del Euego ; the Ealklands , abundant ; New Zealand ; the Auckland Islands .
It is to be noted that in White 's figure of this curious little flat crab , the three frontal teeth are not made sufficiently prominent : they rise from under the raised marginal line bordering the front of the carapace .
The largest specimen in the series collected by Mr. Eaton is a little over 13 mm. in length .
ISOPODA .
Asellida : .
[ Jaera pubescens .
Dana , U. S. Explor .
Exped .
1853 , xiv .
, Crust , part ii .
, 744 , pi .
xlix .
, 9 ; Smith , Bulletin U. S. Nat. Mus. 1876 , iii .
63 .
Sab.\#151 ; In company with Sphceroma gigas on rocky beaches .
Kerguelen Island ( Kidder ) ; also Tierra del Euego ( Dana ) .
] jEgida : .
iEga semicarinata .
( Plate XI .
fig. 1 .
) Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
115 .
Corpus punctatum , elongato-ovatum ; coxis oblique bilineatis ; ultimo segmen-torum post-abdominis postice truncato levissimeque emarginato , carina longitudinali lcevi ad marginem posticam hand attingente ; penultimo exterioribus ramoram appendicium subovatis , interioribus truncato-triangularibus , haud usque ad apicem segmenti sequentis attingentibus .
Body elongate-ovate , moderately convex , punctate ; the punctulations very sparse or wanting on the anterior halves of the segments of the pereion , hut more numerous and coarser upon those of the pleon , especially the last of them .
Eyes large .
Each segment of the pereion is traversed by a faint impressed transverse line in or about the middle ; the sixth segment is slightly the longest .
First five segments of the pleon subequal and very short ; the sixth ( the last ) about as long as three-fourths of its width at the base , narrowed from its proximal to its truncate and slightly emarginate distal extremity , and with a slight impression near the base on each side of a rather indistinct , smooth , longitudinal median carina , which falls short of the posterior margin .
TJpper antennae with the first two joints greatly dilated , the third joint very slender ; the flagellum with about 11 joints hardly reaching as far as the anterior margin of the first segment of the pereion .
Lower antennae with the first five joints dilated , the first three of them very short , the fourth and fifth longer , and subequal to one another ; the flagellum with about 21 joints , reaching just over the posterior margin of the first segment of the pereion .
Pereiopoda with coxae rather acute and produced behind , traversed by two oblique raised lines ; the meros-joints of the four posterior pairs rather slender , the posterior margins entire , slightly carinated .
Bami of the appendages of the penultimate segment of the pleon subequal , entire , ciliated , not reaching so far as the extremity of the segment ; the outer ramus sub-oval ; the inner triangular , broad and truncate at the end .
Length of the largest female 58 mm. Ha5.\#151 ; Kerguelen I sland .
Of this fine species one adult female , and four smaller examples , are in the collection of the British Museum .
2E .
semicarinataresembles JE .
serripes , M , Edwards ( Hist. Not .
Crust .
1840 , iii .
241 ) in having the caudal segment truncate ; but is distinguished from it by the posterior margins of the thighs being entire , as well as by the appendages of the penultimate segment of the pleon not reaching to the posterior margin of the terminal segment .
Plate XI .
, fig. 1 .
EE.semicarinata ( not .
size ) ; , ceplialon ( enlarged ) ; b , maxillipes ; c , 1st pereiopus ; d , 4th pereiopus .
Sph^eromlcle .
Sphseroma gigas .
Leach , Diet .
Sc. Not .
1818 , xii .
346 ; M. Edw. Hist. Not .
Crust .
1840 , iii .
205 ; Dana , U. S. Explor .
Exped .
1853 , xiv .
, Crust , ii .
775 , pi .
lii .
1 ; Miers , Cat. N. Zeal .
Crust .
1876 , p. 110 ; Smith , Bull .
U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
63 .
CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MIERS .
Hab.\#151 ; Royal Sound ( Am .
\amp ; Engl .
Tr. Yen .
Exp. ) .
Also " New Holland " ( M. Ed. ) ; Bay of Islands , N. Zealand ( Dana ) ; and the Auckland Islands ( Brit. Mus. ) .
Mr. Eaton only collected a single small specimen of this species , hut states that it is very common under stones on the shore , and in the kelp .
A large series is in the collection of the British Museum , and many specimens are stated by Mr. Smith to have been obtained by the officers of the American Expedition .
It is worthy of remark , that all of the specimens from Kerguelen Island collected by the American naturalists , as well as those in the British Museum , are the true S. gig as of Leach ; and that there is no example among them of the variety named by White which occurs , as well as the normal form of the species , at the Ealklands , where it appears to he as common as the typical S. gigas alone is at Kerguelen Island .
The variety mentioned is characterised by the acutely lanceolate rami of the appendages of the penultimate segment of the pleon .
I was at first disposed to suspect that this difference between the two forms was merely one of sex ; but I have since observed adult males of both of them .
Bynamene eafoni .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 2 .
) Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
73 .
Corpus late ellipticum , lateribus subparallelis , convexum ; ultimo segmentorum post-abdominis convexo , lateribus subrectis convergentibus , postice emarginato , excisura fere eadem longitudine ac latitudine , rotundata ; penultimo ramis appen-dicium subaequalibus , integris , ovalibus , usque ad excisuram segmenti sequenti vix attingentibus .
Body broadly elliptical , convex , smooth , naked , the sides of the pereion almost parallel .
Cephalon transverse , closely encased within the first segment of the pereion , bordered in front with a thin raised line .
Eyes very small .
Segments of the pereion short , of equal length above ; the first three with the posterior edge nearly straight , the next four bent slightly backwards at the sides .
Segments of the pleon ( the last excepted ) coalescent , with the lines of union marked by incised lines at the sides ; last segment convex , with the lateral margins almost straight , and with a rounded emargination , which is about as wide as deep , at the distal extremity .
Upper antennae with the basal two joints dilated , the first about twice as long as the second ; the third joint very slender , and about as long as the second ; the flagellum , with about 14 joints , reaches as far as the posterior margin of the first segment of the pereion .
Lower antennae with the first four joints slightly dilated , the first two short , the next two longer , the fourth usually the longest ; the flagellum , composed of about 24 joints , reaches to the posterior margin of the third segment of the pereion .
Pereiopoda slender , almost naked ; c c 2 dactyli with two claws .
Rami of the lateral appendages of the pleon subequal , oval , entire , not ciliated , reaching almost to the terminal notch of the following segment .
Colour reddish or greyish brown , with darker spots .
Length of the largest ( cf ) 17 ; of the smallest 3 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay and Observatory Bay ; common .
Mr. Eaton collected a good series of examples of different ages and sizes .
In contour D. eatoni somewhat resembles D. dumerili , Aud .
, * which has been recorded from the coast of Natal ; but in that species the terminal notch is much deeper , and the rami of the penultimate segment are much shorter .
Plate XI .
, fig. 2 , D. eatoni ( enlarged ) ; a , ceplialon ( enlarged ) ; mandible ; c , maxillipes ; cZ , 4th pereiopus .
Cassidina emarginata .
Cassidina emarginata Guerin-Menev .
, Icon .
Regne Anim .
, Text Crust , p. 31 ; Cuningham , Trans. Lin .
Soc. 1871 , xxvii .
, part iv .
, 499 , pi .
lix .
4 .
Cassidina latistylis , Dana , U.S. Explor .
Exped .
1852 , xiv .
; Crust , part ii .
784 , pi .
lii .
12 .
Sab.\#151 ; Royal Sound and Swain 's Bay .
Also W. coast of Patagonia and the Straits of Magellan ( Cunningh .
) , plentiful ; Ealkland Islands ( Guer .
Men .
) .
The form of this species changes considerably with the advance of age .
In young examples ( those seen by me are nearly all of them females ) the body is more convex , and is proportionally narrower than it is in the others ; resembling the form figured as C. latistylis by Dana .
In older specimens ( males ) from Kerguelen Island , the body is more depressed and is much broader than in the others ; resembling Guerin-Meneville 's description and Cuningham 's figure .
There are specimens of this latter form in the British Museum from the Straits of Magellan , and it is probable that the two may be identified as conditions of the same species .
ANISOPODA .
serolida : .
Serolis latifrons .
Serolis latifrons ( White , List Crust .
Brit. Mus. 1847 , p. 106:\#151 ; name only , without description ) ; Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 1875 , xvi .
74 ; id. Cat. N. Zeal .
Crust .
1876 , p. 117 , pi .
iii .
7 ; Smith , Bull .
IT .
S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
63 .
Corpus culminatum itaque convexum , acute ovatum ; ultimo segmentorum post * Dynamene dumerili .
Sphceroma dumerilii , Aud .
in Save .
Desc .
Eg .
1809 , Explic .
tab .
Crust , i. 95 , pi .
xii .
iv .
; Krauss Siidafr .
Crust .
1843 , p. 65 .
S. savignyi , M. Edwards , Hist. Not .
Crust .
, 1840 , iii .
208 .
CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MJERS .
abdominis subtriangulari , postice emarginato , supra tricarinato , carina in medio una e basi ad apicem alta , recta , alteraque utrinque minus expressa prius ad marginem anticum et adjacente atque parallels , deinde juxta latus retrocurvata , non tamen ad marginem attingente : penultimo ramis appendicium acuminatis , imparibus , ex-teriore brevissimo .
Body roof-shaped , with a series of impressed lines and punctulations near the posterior margins of the segments .
Segments of the pereion sinuated , but not ( as in some of the species in this genus ) much prolonged posteriorly .
Terminal segment of the pleon large , sub-triangular , with the apex semicircularly emarginate ; an elevated keel extends directly from the middle of the base to the terminal notch , and on each side of it one less prominent runs outwards close to and parallel with the base of the segment , and towards the lateral margin is curved backwards so as to terminate eventually not far from the same .
Upper antennae short ; the joints of the peduncle dilated , the last of them less so than the preceding .
Lower antennae with the last joint of the peduncle as stout as but about twice as long as the penultimate joint .
First pair of gnathopoda with the carpus very short , slightly prolonged and acute at its distal extremity ; propodus broadly ovate , articulated with the carpus at the middle of its lower edge , which in front of the joining is armed with a close-set series of short spines ; dactylus acute , arcuate .
Second pair of gnathopoda ( in the male ) slender , the propodus not dilated , the dactylus when retracted fitting into a cavity in the lower surface of the propodus .
Pereiopoda slender .
Bami of the appendages of the penultimate segment of the pleon narrowly acuminate , the outer ramus very small and not half as long as the other .
Colour brown , with irregular paler blotches .
Length of the largest example 30 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Boyal Sound ; common about rocks in shallow water , in a cove full of reefs adjacent to Observatory Bay , and along the rocky beach near the other English station at Swain 's Haulover .
Ur .
Kidder also obtained a specimen near Molloy Point ; and it was observed seemingly by Sir J. Hooker at Christmas Harbour { fide Eaton ) .
Also Bendezvous Cove , Aucklands ( Brit. Mus. ) .
The present species as well as S. septem-carinata are clearly distinguished from all that are enumerated by Professor Grube in his Monograph of the genus* by the form and direction of the ridges upon the last segment of the pleon .
[ Serolis bromleyana .
'Will.-Suhm , , Zeitsch .
f. Wiss .
Zool. 1874 , xxiv .
, App. p. 19 .
Sab.\#151 ; In 1975 faths .
, S. of Kerguelen Island ( Ch. Exped .
) .
This species is very large , and has the segments of the pereion produced at the sides into very long spines .
] *Beitrage sir Kenntnis der Gattung Serolis , in Archiv .
fur Naturgesch .
Berlin , 1875 , xli .
208-234 , pis .
v. \amp ; vi .
[ Serolis septem-carinata .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 3 .
) Serolis quadricarinata , White , MS .
List Crust .
Brit. Mus. 1847 , p. 106 name only , no description:\#151 ; nomen in ep turn .
Serolis septem-carinata , Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Nat. Hist. 1875 , xvi .
, 116 .
Corpus depressum , rugosum ; ultimo segmentorum post-abdominis lateribus sinuatis , apice lente emarginato , dorso in longitudinem recte septem-carinatum ; penultimo ramis appendicium parvis lamelliformibus subacutis , horum interiore paulo majore .
Body depressed , and ( especially at the sides ) rugose .
Segments of the pereion with the postero-lateral angles prolonged backwards and acute ; the corresponding angles of the penultimate segment of the pleon similarly produced , so that their apices lie almost in a straight line with the distal extremity of the ultimate segment .
The last segment of the pleon very slightly concave at the sides , with a shallow apical emargination ; dorsum traversed longitudinally by seven carinse ; of these one in the middle extends to the terminal emargination but is indistinct , while the carina next to it and next hut one are somewhat thickened posteriorly , and terminate before meeting the lateral margins .
Upper antennae small and very slender ; peduncle with the first two joints short and dilated , the third joint longer and slender , the fourth very small ; flagellum hardly reaching to the postero-lateral angle of the first segment of the pereion .
Lower antennae with the terminal and subterminal joints of the peduncle long and subequal to one another ( flagella imperfect ) .
Gnathopoda almost similar to those of S. Pereiopoda slender , the claws small .
Bami of the appendages of the penultimate segment of the pleon small , lamelliform , subacute ; the inner ramus rather the larger .
Length of the largest example 3 3 mm. Sab.\#151 ; The Crozets .
Three specimens obtained by Lieut. A. Smith , B.N. , are in the British Museum .
The catalogue name applied to this species by White , was probably given to it on account of the prominence of four of the ridges ( the nearest two on each side of the median ridge ) of the terminal segment .
Plate XI .
, fig. 3 .
S. septem-carinata ( enlarged 2x2 ) ; a , appendage of the penultimate segment of the pleon .
] AMPITIPODA .
OuchestiidyE .
[ Hyale villosa .
Syale villosa , Smith , Bull .
U. S. Nat. Mus. 1876 , iii .
58 .
Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island , on rocky beaches ( Kidder ) .
Mr. Smith described this species from a single somewhat mutilated male example , nearly 10 mm. long .
] CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MIERS .
[ Lysianassa kidderi .
Lysianassa kidderi , Smith , Bull .
U. S. Nat. Mus. 1876 , iii .
59 .
Long. 3 to 4 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island , on rocky beaches , with ( Kidder ) .
According to Mr. Smith ( loc. cit. ) , " all the specimens received are apparently " immature , and the males evidently , and very likely the females also , have not " attained the adult characters .
" He further observes that " the characters " assigned to the genus Lysianassa ( as restricted by Boeck ) would require con- " siderable modification to admit our species .
" ] Anonyx kergueleni .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 4 .
) j Lysianassa kergueleni , Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
74 .
Caeca , corpore laevi ; angulis capitis antero-lateralibus acutis , prorsus productis ; iis tertii segmentorum post-abdominis postero-lateralibus in lobis angustis et acutis reflexis , ad apices sursum leviter curvatis ; segmento terminali lamelliforme bipartito .
Smooth ; eyes invisible ; antero-lateral angle of ceplialon acute , produced below and beyond the base of the upper antenna .
Third segment of the pleon with the postero-lateral angles prolonged as narrow lobes , which are more or less curved upwards at the tips , and which at their base are nearly at right angles with the posterior margin of the segment .
Upper antennae subpyriform ; their first joint large and stout , the next two short ; flagellum composed of about 14 joints , the first of which is longer than the next ; accessory appendage 5-jointed , with a slender hair at its tip .
Lower antennae slender , rather longer than the upper ; the last two joints of the peduncle longer than the one preceding them ; flagellum composed of about 21 joints .
The mandibles have the slender palpus inserted on a level with the strong molar tubercle , hirst pair of maxillae with the inner lobe slender , ovate , and armed at its apex with two setae ; the outer lobe strong , truncate , armed at the apex with three or four spines ; the last two joints of the palpus lamelliform , ovate , finely denticulated along the apical margin .
Second pair of maxillae with the lobes rather narrowly ovate , ciliated at the apex ; the outer lobe the larger .
The maxilli-pedes have the inner lobe long , reaching nearly to the extremity of the antepenultimate joint of the palpus ; the outer lobe extends almost to the apex of the penultimate joint of the same , and is minutely denticulated at its rounded apex and along its inner edge ; terminal joint of palpus unguiform .
First pair of gnathopoda Avith the carpus about as long as the propodus ; the propodus more than twice as long as wide , with the sides parallel up to the ciliated and obliquely truncate distal extremity ; dactylus acute , reversible .
Second pair of gnathopoda longer than the first , slender and weak ; propodus shorter than the slender carpus , and Avith dense long hair at its distal end ; dactylus obsolete .
Coxae of the second pair of pereiopoda deeply emarginate behind , and with the postero-lateral angle shortly produced backwards at the apex into a broad obtuse lobe .
Third , fourth , and fifth pairs of perei-opoda with the basa broadly oblong , and their straight posterior margins very minutely serrated .
All of the pleopoda are biramose ; the rami slender , acutely lanceolate .
Telson lamelliform , longer than broad , slightly narrowed towards its apex , cleft almost to its base ; the lobes mucronate .
Length of the largest example about 15 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Royal Sound .
Common .
In the form of the antero-lateral angles of the cephalon , and of the posterolateral angles of the third segment of the pleon , this species to some extent resembles *(1 ) Hippomedon holbolli , Kroyer , as described by Boeck , as well as ( 2 ) H. abysii , Goes , and ( 3 ) Anonyx pumilus , Lilljeborg , \#151 ; all from the Northern Seas .
But it differs from these species in having the inner lobes of the maxillipedes proportionately much longer ; and in this respect it approaches more nearly to the type of structure exhibited in Orchomene , Boeck .
The eyes also , which are well marked in the species just referred to , are not visible in any of the specimens of A. kergueleni .
On account of the subcheliform character of the first pair of the gnathopoda , and the divided telson , I refer this species to the genus , as defined by Mr. C. Spence Bate , instead of retaining it in where I placed it at first .
I cannot refer it with certainty to any one of the numerous genera recently established by Boeck in his systematic arrangement of the Scandinavian and Arctic AmpJiipoda ; f I believe , indeed , that it will be found necessary to introduce important modifications of the systematic arrangement and generic characters proposed by this author into any general revision of this difficult order , which may hereafter be undertaken , based upon the comparison of species from foreign as well as the European and Arctic seas .
Plate XI .
, fig. 4 , A. kergueleni ( enlarged , 2x2 ) ; , end of pleon ( side view ) ; b , telson ; c , 1st maxilla ; d , 2nd maxilla ; maxillipes ; 1st gnathopus ; g , 2nd gnathopus .
Atylus australis .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 5 .
) Tar ameer a australis , Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
75 .
Atylus australis , id. op .
cit. , p. 117 ; Smith , Bull .
U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
61 .
* ( 1 .
) Hippomedon holbolli , Kroy .
, Bdeck Forhandl .
Vidensk .
Selsk .
1871 , p. 102.=Anonyx denticu-latus , S. Bate Cat. Amphipod .
Crust .
Brit. Mus. 1862 , p. 74 , pi .
xii .
2 .
( 2 .
) Hippomedon abysii , Goes , v. Boeek , op .
cit. , p. 103 .
( 3 .
) Anonyx pumilus , Lilljeborg , y. Boeck , op .
cit. , p. 110 .
t Skandinaviske og Arktiske Amphipoder , 1872-76 .
4to .
Christiania .
CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MIERS .
Corpus laeve , carinis spinisque dorsalibus carentibus ; oculis subreniformibus ; antennis subaequalibus exappendiculatis ; pedum primo et secundo subparibus , manu lateribus subparallelis apiceque oblique truncato , dactylo brevi ; tertio segmentorum post-abdominis margin postica subrecta , angulisque postero-late-ralibus rotundatis ; ultimo segmentorum longo , bipartito , lobis ad apices emargi-natis .
Body smooth , without dorsal carinae .
Ceplialon with a small subtriangular median lobe , and broad obtuse slightly prominent lateral lobes ; eyes sub-reniform , black .
Eirst , three segments of the pleon with the inferior margins rounded , forming a distinct angle with the posterior margin in the second segment , and appearing to be minutely serrulate , owing to a series of small submarginal spines .
Antennae about half as long as the animal , sub-equal , slender , without an accessory appendage ; the upper pair with the first two joints of the peduncle each about as long as the cephalon , and the third joint short ; the flagellum with its joints increasing in length but diminishing in thickness towards the extremity ; lower antennae with the first three joints short , the fourth and the fifth joints longer ; the flagellum as in the upper antennae .
Mandibles spinose at the apex ; palpus inserted on a level with the strong molar tubercle , and triarticulate , the second joint much the stoutest , furnished like the third joint with long cilia towards its distal extremity .
Palpi of the first pair of maxillae 2-jointed ; the second joint ciliated at the apex and more than twice as long as the first .
Lobes of the second pair of maxillae oval , ciliated at the extremities ; the outer lobe rather the larger .
Maxillipedes with the palpi 5-jointed , and ciliated , their third joints the largest , and their apical joints unguiform ; inner lobe ciliated and at the apex spinose , reaching as far as the distal end of the second joint of the palpus , outer lobe denticulated on the inner edge , reaching to the apex of the antepenultimate joint of the palpus .
Gnathopoda with the carpus shorter than the propodus , narrow at the base , enlarging distally ; propodus with subparallel sides , even margins , and obliquely truncate distal extremity ; upon which the acute , slender , and slightly arcuate dactylus can be closed .
Third , fourth , and fifth pairs of pereiopoda with small transverse coxae ; the basa longer , with the inferior margins rounded .
Pleopoda with acute , slender , subequal rami .
Telson lamelliform , reaching beyond the peduncles of the last pair of the pleopoda , cleft nearly to its base ; the lobes slightly emarginate at the apices .
Antennae , gnathopoda , pereiopoda , and the rami of the pleopoda , fringed with short hairs .
Length 17 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay and Observatory Bay .
Eour specimens were obtained ; two of them adult .
The present species resembles Atylus jissicauda* Dana , from Valparaiso , in having reniform eyes , and the lobes of the telson emarginate ; hut it is distinguished from it by the greater length of the telson , by the lobes of the same being somewhat narrowed towards the apices , and by their emarginations being very small and placed a little on one side .
Also the gnathopoda are subequal ; the fourth segment of the pleon is slightly produced over the fifth , and its posterior margin is straight ; and the postero-lateral angles of all of the segments of the pleon are rounded , not acute as in A. fissicauda .
It is probable that a separate genus will eventually have to be formed for the reception of the two species just mentioned , and A. Spence Bate .
They differ from the normal species of the genus , as restricted by Boeck , in being destitute of dorsal carinations , and in some other particulars .
Bor .
australis I originally founded a new genus Paramcera , allied to Melita in having the inner rami of the posterior pair of pleopoda short or rudimentary , but differing from it in the absence of an accessory appendage to the upper antennae .
A subsequent examination of a series of younger examples showed , however , that my original types had sustained injury , the rami in question having been broken off and lost ; and that in reality the inner rami are as well developed as the outer in A. australis .
Yet though the genus Par ameer a is unavailable for A. , it will hold good for the reception of Melita tenuicornis , % Dana $ , and Gammarus Fresnelii , S Audouin , mentioned at the time of its publication as apparently included in it ; unless , as is probable , there be some error in the figures and descriptions published of these species .
The specimens obtained by Dr. Kidder at Kerguelen Island , and doubtfully referred to A. australis by Prof. Smith , differ from the typical form principally in possessing a minute accessory appendage to the upper antennae , which does not exist in any of the specimens examined by me .
Plate XI .
, fig. 5 .
A. australis ( enlarged ) ; , end of pleon ( side view ) ; b , telson ; c , mandible ; d , 2nd maxilla ; e , maxillipes ; / , 1st gnathopod ; g , 2nd gnathopod .
Podocerus ornatus .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 6 .
) Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
75 .
Corpus keve ; tribus prioribus segmentorum post-abdominis postice utrinque emarginatis , et angulis postero-lateralibus rotundatis ; ultimo eorundem simplici # Atylus fissicauda .
Iphimedia Jissicauda , Dana , U. S. Explor .
Exped .
1853 , xiv .
929 , pi .
lxiii .
4 .
f Atylus austrinus , S. Bate , Cat. Amphip .
Crust .
Brit. Mus. 1862 , p. 137 , pi .
xxvi .
4 .
t -Melita tenuicornis , Dana , in U. S. Expl .
Exped .
1853 , xiv .
Crust , i. 963 , pi .
lxvi .
5 g-m .
S Gammarus Fresnelii , Aud .
in Save .
Descr .
Egypt , 1809 , Crust , text i. 93 , pi .
xi .
3 .
CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MIERS .
conico ; pedum anticis parvis , carpo haud manu minori , secundis magnis , carpo parvo , manu valida ovata , integra .
Ceplialon small , its anterior margin forming almost a right angle with the inferior margin in front of the small round black eyes .
Posterior margins of the first three segments of the pleon notched above their rounded and not prominent postero-lateral angles .
Upper and lower antennae subequal , very robust ; peduncles with the last two joints subequal , much longer than the one before them , densely fringed beneath with long flexible hair ; the upper with a small accessory appendage .
Palpus of the mandible ciliated , very stout .
Inner lobe of maxillipes very short , reaching to the apex of the antepenultimate joint of the palpus ; outer lobe of the same reaching beyond the distal extremity of the penultimate joint , and denticulated along the inner margin ; the joints of the palpus are ciliated , and the penultimate is the longest joint .
Pirst pair of gnathopoda small and weak ; merus , carpus , and propodus somewhat dilated beneath , with long hairs on their inner margins ; dactylus arcuate , acute .
Second pair of gnathopoda large and well developed ; merus very small , carpus inserted toward the middle of the inferior margin of the propodus , propodus large , ovate , entire beneath , dactyl strong and arcuate .
Last three pahs of pereiopoda with the propodus shortly spinose , and the dactylus arcuate , acute , and reflexible .
Pleopoda biramose , the last pair the shortest ; each ramus has a series of short spines .
Telson small , conical , simple , ciliated at the apex .
Colour pale , varied with numerous small black spots .
Length 13 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Swain 's Bay .
Only two examples ; females with ova , in a mutilated condition .
This species is distinguished by the long hairs of the antennae , the form of the second pair of the gnathopoda , whose propodus is not dentate , the shape of the segments of the pleon , \amp ; c. Plate XI .
, fig. 6 .
P. ornatus ( much enlarged ) ; , end of pleon ( side view ) ; b , maxillipes ; c , 1st gnathopus ; d , 2d gnathopus .
PYCNOGONIDA .
Nymphonidje .
Nymphon antarcticum.* ( Plate XI .
, fig. 7 .
) Nymphon gracilipes , Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
76 .
Corpus gracillimum , pilis brevissimis sparsis ; capite longitudinc collo aequali , tuberculo oculigero obtuse subconico ; prolationibus segmentorum thoracis laterali* It is necessary to alter the designation of this species ; the name , which I applied to it in 1875 , having been adopted in the same year by Dr. Heller , for a species collected by the recent Austrian Expedition to the North Pole .
I have no means of ascertaining to which of the two species priority of publication , in the year referred to , belongs .
D D 2 bus longe distantibus ; pedibus secundo articulorum tertio duplo longiori , septimo octavi aequilongo .
Very slender , sparsely clothed with very short hairs , which become more crowded towards the extremities of the legs .
Head and neck subequal in length , and together about as long as the rest of the body ; the former cylindrical , stout ; the latter somewhat constricted in the middle .
Oculigerous tubercle prominent , situated in front of the foremost pair of legs .
Body terminated behind by a short obtuse cylindrical process .
First ( mandibular ) pair of appendages triarticulate ; the first joint long and slender , the second and third hairy , forming a complete chela ; dactylus or third joint slender , arcuate .
Second pair of appendages slender ; the first joint very short , the second the longest , the last three joints hairy .
Third ( ovigerous ) pair of appendages 11-jointed ; the first joint very short , the second scarcely longer , the third and fourth again longer , the fifth the longest , the sixth to the tenth gradually decreasing in size , the eleventh minute .
Legs very long and slender ; the first joint and the third very short , the second joint rather longer , the fourth , fifth , and sixth very long , the " seventh and eighth ( first and second tarsal ) subequal , straight ; claws two , one very small .
Length 13 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Observatory Bay .
On roots of Macrocystis grappled in 5-7 fathoms ; a single example .
This species is allied to N. grossipes , O. Fab .
, as described by Kroyer , from the northern seas , but differs somewhat in the length of the neck , and in the proportions of the joints of the legs and appendages.* Plate XI .
, fig. 7 .
N. ant arc timm ( natural size ) ; , body ( enlarged ) ; b , mandible ; g , tarsus .
Nymphon brevicaudatum .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 8 .
) Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
117 .
Corpus robustum pilosum ; capite sessili crasso , tuberculo oculigero elato obtuse cylindrico ; prolationibus lateralibus thoracis parum distantibus , pedibus secundo articulorum tertio parum longior , septimo octavi aequilongo .
Bather stout , hairy .
Head sessile , thick , subcylindrical ; oculigerous tubercle high , slender , subcylindrical .
Body short ; the lateral leg-bearing lobes not remote from one another as in the preceding species , nor yet so closely contiguous as in Tanystylum , terminated behind by a short subcylindrical process .
First pair of appendages ( mandibles ) well developed ; the first two joints rather long , the chelae slender .
Second pair of appendages with the first joint very short , the second the * Pycnogonum grossipes , O. Fab .
Faun .
Grcenl .
1780 , 229 .
Nymphon grossipes , Kroyer , Naturk , Tidsskr , 1844-45 .
ii .
R. i. 108 ; id. Voy .
en Scand .
Crust , tab .
xxxvi .
1 .
CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; E. J. MIERS .
longest , the third long , the fourth and fifth shorter , subequal to each other .
Third ( ovigerous ) pair of appendages 11-iointed ; the first three joints very short , the fourth and the fifth subequal in length and the longest , the sixth rather shorter , the next four very short , the eleventh minute , unguiform .
Legs with the first three joints very short , the second very slightly the longest of them , fourth , fifth , and sixth long , seventh and eighth ( first and second tarsal ) subequal to each other , straight and slender ; claws two , one very small .
Length about 7 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island ( Antarctic Expedition ) .
Several specimens , mostly females bearing ova .
This species is allied to the boreal N. brevitarse* Kroyer ; but it is distinguished by its more robust form , its long and slender oculigerous tubercle , its longer tarsal joints , \amp ; c. Plate XI .
, fig. S. N. brevicauclatum ( natural size ) ; body ( enlarged ) ; appendage of second pair ; c , ovigerous appendage ; tarsus .
Acheliidje .
Tanystylum , gen .
nov .
Caput sessile , crassum .
Appendicium primse 1-articulatse , non cheliformes ; secundse 5-articulat8e ( ?
) ; tertise 10-articulatse .
Abdomen postice processu longo styliformi desinitum .
Head sessile , thick .
Eirst ( mandibular ) pair of palpiform appendages inarticulate , simple , not cheliform ; second pair five-jointed ( ?
) ; third ( ovigerous ) pair ten-jointed .
Abdomen terminated by a long styliform process .
The family to which this genus belongs was characterised by Hr .
Semper f in 1874 as distinguished by the possession of simple mandibular appendages from all others of the Pycnogonida .
It occupies a position intermediate between the phonidce ( which have the mandibular palpi fully developed , triarticulate and cheliform ) and the restricted Pycnogonidce ( which are completely destitute of mandibular palpi .
Tanystylum differs from all the other genera of the in having the mandibles reduced to a single joint , and in the slender styliform termination of the abdomen .
Tanystylum styligerum .
( Plate XI .
, fig. 9 .
) Nymphon styligerum , Miers , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. 1875 , xvi .
76 .
Corpus robustum , hirtum ; capite sessili ; prolationibus segmentorum thoracis * Nymphon brevitarse , Krdyer , Naturh .
Tidsskr .
1844-45 , ii .
R. i. 115 ; Voy .
en Scand .
, \amp ; c. Crust , tab .
xxxvi .
4 .
t Acheliidce , Semper in Verh .
Phys.-Med .
Gesellscli .
Wurzburg , 1874 , vii .
274 .
lateralibus contiguis ; articulorum pedis secundo et tertio longitudine subsequalibus , septimo brevissimo , octavo curvato .
Bather stout .
Head very thick and somewhat barrel-shaped , widest nearly in the middle .
Body with the lobes of the leg-bearing segments in close contact with one another , and so constituting a broad mass or plastrum .
Eirst ( mandibular ) pair of palpi-form appendages uni-articulate ( i.e. of a single piece ) ; second pair apparently 5-jointed , with the first joint and the third very short , the second , fourth , and fifth longer ; third ( ovigerous ) pair 10-jointed , the first three joints very short , the fourth and fifth longer , the next four very short , the tenth minute unguiform .
Legs with the first three joints very short , the next three longer , the seventh joint ( first tarsal ) very short , the eighth ( second tarsal ) longer and curved ; claws two , unequal .
Length of body about 3 mm. Sab.\#151 ; Observatory Bay ; on roots of grappled in 5-7 faths .
( two specimens only .
) The hairiness of the palpi makes it extremely difficult to ascertain positively the number and proportionate lengths of their component joints .
The styliform termination of the body appears to arise from the dorsal surface of the abdomen and from between the bases of the last pair of the legs .
Plate XI .
, fig. 9 , T. styligerum ( not .
size ) : a3 body ( enlarged ) ; oculigerous tubercle ; c , ovigerous appendage ; d , leg .
Trans , of Venus ExpecL .
Zoology PL XI .
Ker gtjelen Is land .
O.S.Sowerloy dLaL.etlitii .
lytmtexn .
IBxo ?
imp .

