1875 .
] On the Natural History of Kerguelen 's Island .
April 8 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Pursuant to notice , the Right Hon. the Earl of Carnarvon and the Right Hon. William Edward Eorster were balloted for and elected Fellows of the Society .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , Pierre J. van Beneden of Louvain , Joseph Louis Frangois Bertrand of Paris , Alfred Louis Olivier Des Cloizeaux of Paris , Hippolyte Louis Fizeau of Paris , Elias Magnus Fries of Upsal , Jules Janssen of Paris , August Kekule of Bonn , Gustav Robert Kirchhoff of Berlin , and C. Ludwig of Leipzig were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for diem .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " First Report of the Naturalist attached to the Transit-of-Venus Expedition to Kerguelen 's Island , December 1874/ * By the Rev. A. E. Eaton .
Communicated by the President .
Received March 15 , 1875 .
To the Secretary of the Royal Society .
Royal Sound , Kerguelen 's Island , 31st December , 1874 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; It is difficult , owing to the inexactness of the charts , to inform you of the positions of the Astronomical Stations in whose neigh-i)ourhood I have been able to work in this island .
The German Station s in Betsy Cove , the American at Molloy Point , Royal Sound .
The English Stations also are in this Sound , the second being situated about hree miles N. by W. of Swain 's Haulover .
The first English Station is between these last two on the mainland , six or seven miles N.W. of Three-Island Harbour , in what will be called Observatory Bay .
Two lays before the Transit of Yenus , a party under Lieut. Goodridge , R.N. , vas detached from the first English Station to observe the transit from i position which he selected near the base of Thumb Peak .
I have not ret been able to visit Betsy Cove .
Observatory Bay is one of the minor inlets of a peninsula comprised between two narrow arms of the sea .
One of these runs up from the sound , along the western fiank of the hills adjacent to Mount Crozier , several miles , and terminates at a distance of three or four hours to the north of us , and about four miles from the inlet near Vulcan Cove .
The other arm , opening nine or ten miles away to the southward , proceeds 352 Rev , A. E. Eaton on the [ Apr. 8 , in a north-easterly direction to within three or four miles of the former , and no great distance from Foundry Branch .
Besides the inlets of the sea , numerous freshwater lakes present obstacles to inland travelling .
Some in this neighbourhood are two or three miles in length , but in general they are not more than a mile long .
They are usually shallow , and appear to be uninhabited by fish .
The bogs and streams in this vicinity are not impassable , but can be traversed with ease if ordinary care be taken .
The most salient features of the landscape are the basaltic hills , with irregular terraces of rock on their sides , and broken cliffs at their summits .
In lieu of grass , their slopes are clothed with banks and boulderlike clumps of Azorella selago , excepting where rich damp loam affords a soil suitable for the Accena and the Here and there a fern ( Lomaria ) and grass ( Festuca ) grow in the interspaces of the other plants .
The climate of Royal Sound is far warmer and drier than we were led to expect it would be .
In November the weather was very pleasant ; since then it has deteriorated , though the snow has not again covered the ground as it did when we first arrived .
Probably the previous accounts of its meteorology were based upon observations taken in parts of the island where bad weather prevails ; or it may be that the condition of the country in winter has been presumed to be constant throughout the year .
In one respect we were rightly informed ; for usually when there is no breeze there is a gale .
A calm day is an exceptional event .
Meteorological observations are being taken in Observatory Bay on board the ' Volage ' and by the sappers on shore .
Corresponding with the unlooked for superiority in climate , a difference is noticeable in the vegetation of this part of the island .
Some plants which occur at both extremities of the country display , in Royal Sound , marks of luxuriance .
For instance , Pringlea which is elsewhere apetalous , here , in sheltered places , frequently develops petals\#151 ; some flowers in the same inflorescence possessing one petal only , others having two , three , or four .
And the petals are not always of a pale greenish colour , but occasionally are tinged with purple .
Again , Lomaria alpina , which is mentioned in the flora as rare in the neighbourhood of Christmas Harbour , is excessively common and very finely grown here .
There are also more species of flowering plants and of the higher orders of Cryptogamia here than were found by the Antarctic Expedition at the north of the island ; but there are fewer species of Mosses , Lichens , and Algae .
Their paucity , in comparison with those of the other district , is probably due to the nature of the rocks on land , and to the seclusion of the bay from the open sea .
The additions to the flora are for the most part Falkland-Islands species .
In speaking of the climate , it may be mentioned that the plants of Kerguelen 's Island are not ( as was supposed ) in flower throughout the year ; 875 .
] Natural History of Kerguelen 's Island .
it , probably , some of them do not cease flowering until late in the winter .
7hen we first arrived in Royal Sound the ground was covered with snow , ad scarcely any thing had begun to come out .
The was far Ivanced in bud , barely commencing to blossom .
The was just aginning to burst into leaf .
About the first week in November , 'ookii came out , and , a few days later , Azorella selago .
The young fronds f the ferns were just about to unroll .
In the third week of the same lonth , Montia fontana and Accena aj were in flower in a sheltered pot , and Leptinella plumosa was first found in blossom .
Galium antarccvm appeared about the same date .
A week later , Ranunculus Tiydro-hilus and a Festuca ( purpurascens ?
) were out , and Lycopodium clavatum 'as sprouting .
By the middle of the month , Trioida and Lyallia uelensis and also Ranunculus crassipes were in flower ; the Pringlea was verywhere past flowering ( excepting upon the mountains ) , and Aira ntarctica began to shoot forth its panicles .
Before the end of the month i Garex came out ; but Bulliarda and other plants delayed still .
A few Species of Mammals have been introduced into the island , lice ( evidently Mm mmculm , L. ) are common along the coast , and have even found by us in various places .
The Rabbits , transported by order f the Admiralty , from the convict settlement in Table Bay have been indeed by H.M.S. 'Volage ' in Royal Sound .
They share with the birds loles of the Petrels , and are ( it is almost superfluous to mention ) probating freely .
Their favourite food is the Accena ; but they occasion-lly eat Pringlea-leaves and gnaw away the green surface of Azorella .
n the Crozettes , whose climate and flora are said to resemble those of bis island , rabbits have become extremely abundant , and so rank and oarse that the sealers will not eat them .
Goats are increasing in num-\gt ; ere on the leeward side of the mainland .
Whales and Porpoises occasionally enter the Sound .
Old skulls of be latter , wanting the lower jaw , are cast up here and there on the eaches .
Up to the present time , I have captured only two species of Seals\#151 ; a emale Sea-Leopard and two males of a Platyrhine Seal .
The other kinds requent the more open parts of the coast and islands .
Twenty-two species of birds at the fewest , perhaps twenty-three , fre-tuent Royal Sound , viz. a Ghionis , a Cormorant , a Teal , a Tern , a Gull , i Skua , eleven ( perhaps twelve ) Petrels , two Albatrosses , and three ( per-laps four ) Penguins .
Of these I have procured eggs of the first six ; tlso of six Petrels , one Albatross , and two Penguins .
The Thalassi-Iromce are preparing for laying .
Pish are rather scarce in Observatory Bay .
Only three species have litherto occurred to us , two of which are common under stones at low water .
The remains of a Raia have also been picked up on one of the slands by an officer of the ' Volagebut hardly sufficient is left to enable the species to be determined .
It is allied to R. clavata and R. radiata .
Rev. A. E. Eaton on the [ Apr. 8 , The entomology of the island , is very interesting .
Most of the largei insects seem to be incapable of flight .
I have found representatives o ; the orders Lepidoptera , Diptera , Coleoptera , and Colembola .
The Lepidoptera comprise a species of the Noctuina ( as I suppose ) anc one of the Tineina .
Of the first I have not yet reared the imago ; the larva is a moss eater and subterranean : the adult is probably as large as an Agrotis of medium size .
The species of Tineina is probably one oi the Gelechidce , judging from the form of the palpi .
Its larva feeds or young shoots of Festucce , and sometimes spins a silken cocoon for the pupa .
The imago , of which the sexes are alike , has acute and very abbreviated wings , and the posterior pair extremely minute .
In repose the antennae are widely separated and almost divaricate .
When the sur shines the adult is active , and , if alarmed , jumps to a distance of two or three inches at a time .
During its passage through the air the wings are vibrated .
The Diptera are represented by species of the Tipulidae and Museidse , There are three of the former family .
One of them is a small species of the Cecidomyidae , which is abundant in mossy places , and presents no marked peculiarity .
Another seems to be a degraded member of the Tipulidae .
The antennae have six joints , the palpi two ; the wings are ligulate and very minute .
It possesses halteres , and the female has the ovipositor enclosed in an exposed sheath .
Although it is unable to fly , it lives upon rocks in the sea which are covered at high water , and there it deposits its eggs in tufts of Enteromorpha .
The third species has full-sized wings ; it was caught in the house .
The indigenous Muscidae are very sluggish in their movements , and are incapable of flight .
Eour species are common about here .
One of them is abundant on Pringlea , crawling over the leaves .
When it is approached it feigns to be dead , and , tucking up its legs , drops down into the axils of the leaves ; or , if it happens to be upon a plane surface , one need only look at it closely and it throws itself promptly upon its back and remains motionless until the threatened danger is over , when it gradually ventures to move its limbs and struggle to regain its footing .
Its wings are represented by minute gemmules , and it possesses halteres .
The ovipositor is extended , its apical joint alone being retracted .
The penis is porrected beneath the abdomen , where it fits into a notch at the apex of the penultimate segment .
The larva feeds on decaying vegetable matter .
Another species occurs on dead birds and animals , as well as beneath stones near the highest tide-mark .
It is completely destitute of even the vestiges of wings and halteres .
The sexual organs are concealed .
It and the preceding species are rather smooth .
A third species , slightly hairy , is common amongst tide-refuse and on the adjacent rocks , which are coated with stunted Enteromorpha , on which plant , inter alia , the larva feeds .
It has very small triangular rudiments of wings , slightly emarginate near the apex of the costa , and possesses halteres .
The sexual organs are not exposed .
The fourth species occurs amongst grass growing \#163 ; 5 .
] Natural History of Kerguelen 's Island .
al g the shore and also in Shag-rookeries .
Its linear and very narrow wgs are almost as long as the abdomen .
It can jump , but cannot fly* f sexual organs are retracted .
L Pulex is parasitic upon Halidroma , and one ( possibly the same ^ ; ies ) on Diomedea fuliginosa .
loleoptera are not uncommon .
The larger species seem to have their -Ira soldered together .
There is a small species of the Brachyelytra .
-everal species of Nirmiidce have been obtained .
'wo Podurce ( one black , the other white ) are plentiful .
\#166 ; here appear to be few species of Spiders , though individuals are nuerous .
Penguins and some of the other birds are infested with Ticks .
T ) remaining Arachnida are related to Gribates .
'he Crustacea , Annelida , Mollusca , and Echinodermata , in this part of the u'ud , have probably been collected by the ' Challenger ' more extensively .
hi I have been able to do ; therefore I need not particularize further ant them than to state that Entomostraca abound in the lakes ; an \#166 ; ill worm is common , and a land-snail is very plentiful amongst the rocks o the hills .
This last appears to appreciate comparative heat , for specials obtained in an exposed place , during the frosty weather , were assem-bl together for warmth under the drip of an icicle .
n Observatory Bay , Coelenterata are not numerous .
One or two s cies of Actiniidae on the rocks and Macrocystis-roots , and an Ilyan-ti in mud , are the only Actinozoa I have met with .
The Hydrozoa -uilarly have afforded only three species\#151 ; a Corynid , a Campanularian , al a Sertularella .
There are several Sponges .
W^ith the exception of Limosella aquatica , and perhaps Agrostis ant-\#166 ; tica , I have obtained all the flowering plants and ferns given in the * ora Antarctica ' as indigenous to the island .
Besides these , \#166 ; tw hydrophilus and another species , a Carex , a ( probably F. ipurascens ; but I have no work containing descriptions of the flower-i ; plants ) , Polypodium vulgar , a fern allied to , and Cysto\lt ; ris fragilishave occurred to me .
There is also a plant which appears t belong to the Juncacese .
Lycopodium clavatum and L. selago are com-in about here .
None of the Mosses , Hepatic\#174 ; , or Lichens have been 'rked out as yet ; but amongst them are one or two-species of , *1 some examples of Lecanora paleacea .
Eungi are represented by - aricus ( Psalliota ) arvensis , Coprinus and a peculiar parade on Azorella , which grows out from the rosettes in the form of a clear ily , which becomes changed into a firm yellowish substance of indefinite m. There are also some JSphceriacei on grass and dead stems of plants .
- present few additions have been made to the marine flora .
The larger -g\#174 ; in Royal Sound are usually not cast upon the shore by the waves , sd I have almost been entirely dependent upon grapples thrown from the cks for specimens of the more delicate forms .
Polysiphonia Sullivance 356 Messrs. De La Rue , Muller , and Spottiswoode on [ Apr. , and Rhytiphlcea Oomardii are amongst the novelties .
A large numbeif zoological and botanical specimens have been lost through my mabil , to attend to them in time without assistance .
This has principal affected the number of duplicates ; but in one instance it has led to * loss of a species\#151 ; one of the Petrels , which was the commonest hi about here when we first arrived .
Fortunately it is a well-known speci .
The 1st of March is announced as the approximate date of our sail ] , from Kerguelen 's Island .
Five weeks later I hope to arrive at the Cfe and to forward to you'such of the specimens collected as require or ordinary care in their transmission .
The more fragile things are likely , reach you in better condition if I keep them until my return to Englai , than they would if they were sent with the others .
I am , dear Sir , Faithfully yours , * A. E. Eaton II .
" Experiments to ascertain the Cause of Stratification Electrical Discharges in vacuo " By Warren De La Ri , Hugo W. Muller , and William Spottiswoode .
Receive February 24 , 1875 .
Some results obtained in working with a chloride-of-silver battery 1080 cells in connexion with vacuum-tubes appear to be of suffice interest to induce us to communicate them to the Society , in anticipati of the more detailed account of an investigation which is now being pi secuted , and which it is intended to continue , shortly , with a battery 5000 cells , and possibly with a far greater number .
The battery used up till now consists of 1080 cells , each being formed a glass tube 6 inches ( 15*23 centims. ) long and f of an inch ( 1*9 centu internal diameter ; these are closed with a vulcanized rubber stopi ( cork ) , perforated eccentrically to permit the insertion of a zinc rod , cai fully amalgamated , ( 0*48 centim. ) of an inch in diameter and 4 5 incl ( 11*43 centims. ) long .
The other element consists of a flattened sib wire passing by the side of the cork to the bottom of the tuhsijjBj covered , at the upper part above the chloride of silver and until it pass the stopper , with thin sheet gutta percha for insulation , and to protect from the action of the sulphur in the vulcanized corks ; these wires a of an inch ( 0*16 centim. ) broad and 8 inches ( 20*32 centims. ) long , the bottom of the tube is placed 225*25 grains ( 14*59 grms. ) chloric^ silver in powder ; this constitutes the electrolyte : above the chloride1 silver is poured a solution of common salt containing 25 grammes c ride of sodium to 1 litre ( 1752 grains to 1 gallon ) of water , to wR\#187 ; * about 1 inch ( 2*54 centims. ) of the cork .
The connexion betwe* adjoining cells is made by passing a short piece of india-rubber tu .

