]\gt ; 222 .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June 6 , It woulr ] follow that the prodnc tion of nit anrl nitrous oxides with nitrogen , proportions varymg according to the conditions , is to equent changes occurring betwcen ni rous acid and cupric or cuprous nitrate or nitrite in presence of nitric acid .
I propose to these researches , substituting other metals for , especially those which are supposed to yield primarily acid .
conclusion , I would express my thanks to Mr. Vernon Harcourt for the esfion which proved of so much value , and to the of the Universi } for me facilities for this [ Posfscript.\mdash ; Since the above was written xperimenfs have been made in which reaction between the copper and dilute nitric acid , heated to C. , was uccessfully prevented for some time , even in nbsenco of urea , by substituting a current of air for that of cal.bonic acid.\mdash ; JIay , 1889 .
] VI .
" " Notes on the -Spectra of Oxygen and some of its ColT pounds Bv G. D. , F.li .
S. , Professol of Chemistry , and J. , F.R.S. , JacksoniaIl S Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received May 23 , on account of the important parb which that element plays in the The absorption-spectrum of } gen has aged aention not only world , but because of the kable character of that absorption , so strongly mark 1 , ibit n bands of two essent.ally different classes , xtremely v under varyingt circumstances of condensation combination .
It may be expected that the study of it will reveal somethin .
new as to th ' natnro of { he molecular changes brought about by different circumstances , physical and chemical .
We have published obes of some of our experiments on this subject ( ' Phil. Mug September , 1888 ) , and these confirm generally observations of Egoroff , Janssen , and Olszewski .
' of ordinary oxyg gns at a of about 97 atmospheres , is , of a mass of ather ) than is contained in a vertical column of equal section of the earth 's atmospUere .
Under the ci ; of bbe experiment the A and very and the lines of they a.re comf ) osed appear much The -ing diagram represents the absorption of 18 metres broader than in ordinary spectrtlm .
The othe ] bands al. have served , } resol vinto lines .
It will be { he complete Ttion of the 188 !
Abtionpryge ?
and its Compotmds .
vo 1. .
Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June 6 , ultra-violet rays does not extend quite so far down as the limit of the solar spectrum , it approaches that limit .
There is a diffuse edge of gradually diminishing absorption the complete absorption , and this fact , together with the rapid lution of the extent of complete absorption with decrease of pressure , lead us to class this absorption of the extreme rays with the diffuse bands , lvhich , according to Janssen , increase in intensity as the square of the density of the gas .
If that be so , it is unlikely that the limit of the spectrum is due to the absorption of ordinary oxygen .
For though may suppose interplanetary space to be pervaded by materials similar to our atmosphere , yet they must bs in such a state of tenuity that , although they may to some extent reinforce A and they will not add sensibly to the strength of the diffuse bands .
Moreover , , though identical in position , so far as the blue and less refran gibJe part of the spectrtlm is concerned , with bands observed by Brewster and others in the solar spectrum , are seen much more strongly through our tubes of compressed oxygen than they appear in the solar spectrum with a low sun .
The ultra-violet bands , of which the one near appears in our photographs nearly as strong as the band just above , and that in the indigo , have not , so far as we are aware , been noticed in the solar spectrum .
Probably they would appear if photographs were taken with small dispersion when the sun was low .
As the pressure in the tube ished , the bands rapidly faded ; that in the indigo , with an oscillation-frequency or waveAnumber abont 2240 , was the first to disappear , then those near and and that near E. At the same ime the limit of the transmitted ultraviolet light advanced from an oscillation-frequency of about 3575 at 97 atmospheres , to 3710 at 50 atmospheres and 3848 at 23 atmospheres .
At 20 atmospheres the three bands above , and respectively , were still visible , though Saint .
remained visible until the pressure was reduced to 2 atmospheres , and A could still be seen , but with difficulty , when the pressure of the 18 metres of oxygen was reduced to 1 atmosphere .
When atmospheric air was substituted for oxygen we found tLat atmospheres was the limit of pressure at which we could certainly distinguish , and 18 atmospheres the limit at which we could see B. It is a matter to say exactly when an absorption becomes ible , but the observations on air were made under the same circumstances as those on ox.'gen , and the two sets of observations vere fairly comparable .
With air at 75 atmospheres the three bands above , and , respectively , could all be seen , but that near only with difficulty .
The mass of oxygen and ibs ) artial pressure in the tube was in this case ] by about one quarter ) that which was required to bring out the bands when oxygen alone was used .
The 1889 .
] Abso ption-Spectra of Oxygen and its Compounds .
225 cause of this may be that the development of the diffuse bands depends in some degree on the total pressure of the air , and not only on the partial pressure of the oxygen in it .
The mass of oxygen which when unmixed wibh nitrogen made A visible would correspond to that in the tube filled with air at 5 atmosphel.es , and that which made visible would correspond to at 10 atmospheres .
The differences between these pressures and those which are actually needed to render A and visible seem too great to be ascribed to erl'ors of observation , and seem to indicate that the addition of the nitrogen has some eflect on the absorptive action of the oxygen .
On the other hand , Egoroff found that he could still distinguish A when the thickness of air at ordinary pressure was reduced to 80 metres ( ' Count .
Rend vol. 101 , p. 1144 ) .
This amount of air corresponds to rather less oxygen than tube would hold at pressure of 1 atmosphere .
Differences in the sources of light , in the spectroscope , and the observers , would , however , count for a good deal in observations of this kind , In .
to try the influence of temperaturs on the absorption , the shorter of our experimental tubes , 165 cm .
long , was surrounded by a jacket filled with a mixtme of solid carbollic anhydridc and e , there , which was rapidly evaporated by means of a large air-pump .
By this means the temperature would be reduced to .
The absorption of oxygen at several different pressures up to 104 spheres was obsel.ved through the cooled tube .
We were not , however , able to detect any increase of intensity , other change , absorptions which could be ascribed to the cooling .
To try the effect of an increase of temperature , the tube was surrounded by jacket and heated up to by steam .
Heating appeared to rendel the diffuse bands ather mfuse and less distinct .
On the whole the influence of a change of temperature of cither way is We have observed repeatedly the absorption of liquid oxygen in tbicknesses of 8 and 12 mm. Our observations confirm those of Olszewski .
8 mm. of liquid oxygen gives plainly the three diffuse bands above , and , respectively .
With a thickness of 12 mm. not able to detect any more .
We observed the absorption produced by liquid oxygen on the one hand when it was cooled by its own evapol.ation until tension of its vapour was only equal to that of the atmospherc , thab is , to temperature of , according to Olszewski , also when the tempcrature of the liquid was allowed to rise ulldcl pressure up to nearly the critical temperature .
appeared to be no difference in the absorption under these diffcrent circumsbances when the oxygen was completely liquid , when it near its , and when it was completely gascous ; so .
at least as Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June 6 , concerns the three principal bands , which were all that could be seen in the light transmitted by the liquid in a thickness of 12 mm. It will be observed that taking the density of oxygen at to be , as given by OIszewski , 12 mm. of the liquid would be equivalent to metres of gas at atmospheric pressure\mdash ; hardly more than half the thickness required to make A visible .
The experiments , therefore , point to the conclusion that gaseous and liquid oxygen have the sams absorption-spectrum .
This is a very noteworthy collclusion .
For , considering that no compound of oxygen , so far as is known , gives the absorpti-ons of oxyg.en , the persistency of the absorptions of oxygen through the stages of condensation to the state of complete liquidity implies a persistency of molecular constitution which we should hardly have expected .
In order to compare the absorption of ozone with tlJat of oxygen we employed a tube 12 feet long , made of tinplate fitted with glass ends and coated with paraffin on the inside .
We could not use the 18 .
steel tube on account of the action of the ozone on the metal which rapidly reduced the proportion of ozone , and also because we could not conveniently cool it .
Ozonised oxygen was passed into the tin tube for some time , while the ozoniser and the tube itself were cooled ics and salt .
Tho lime-light , viewed through the tube , looked very blue , and also the spot of light thrown from tube on to a sheet of white paper was equally blue , indicating a considerable absorption of the less refrangible part of the spectrum .
The absorption , so far as the visible rays are concel.ned , appeared to be of a general character , for the [ spectroscope revealed only four extremely faint absorption-bands .
The centres of these hands were at about the wave-numbers 1662 , 1752 , 1880 , and 1990 , and their positions with reference to the bands of oxygen are indicated in the They were so faint as to be seen only with difficulty .
When the hot carbon of an arc lamp was substituted for the lime-light they were rather more distinct , but the positions of the cdges were un- definable .
The light of a gas-lamp was insufficient to show them , and they were no better seen with a singIe-prism spectroscope of low dispersive power than with the spectroscope we employed observing the .
Only one of these bands , it will be seen from the diagram , is nearly coincident with an oxygen-band , namely , that neal , the faintest of the oxygen-bands .
That at wave-numbel 1752 overlaps the strongest oxygen-band , but not at its part , and has none of the peculiar rharacter of its shadin ptly easing on the less refi.angible side and slowly decreasing 011 other side .
}phs of the spectrum ( taketl through a tube with quartz ends ) showed that the ozone absol.bed all the rays above the wave-number point between and R\mdash ; while partial absorption extended below Q. We may say , , that lve can 1889 .
] -Spectra of and its Compounds .
227 trace no identity between the absorptions of ozone and those of ordinary oxygen .
There is no mere displacement of the bands , such as we sometimes get when a coloured substance is dissolved in different menstrua , nor any such a resemblance as we have between the absorption-bands of the different cobaltous salts derived from different acids .
The four bands which we see to be produced by ozonised oxygen COl'respond fairly with the 2nd , , 5th , and 6th of the described by Chappuis as due to ozone ( ' Annals de l'Ecole Normale , ' 2nd ser. , vol. , May , 1882 ) .
These four bands , he says , are the first to be seen .
We have failed to perceive any others with the tube , though the was highly ozonised and maintained at a low temperature .
None of the bands of sufficient intensity to make themselves visible on our photographic plates .
It will be noted that the absorption by ozone extends far below the limit of the solar spectrum .
We found , ] ] owever , that by ing the proportion of ozone to oxygen in the tube the limit of the transmitted light was continually advanced , as already described by Hartley .
The limib of the solar spectrum may , therefore , very well be determined by the erage amount of in the atmosphere , as Hartley supposes .
The known variations in the limit of the solar spectrum may be taken as confirmatory of this hypothesis , although the comparatively small amount of those variations is certainly less than we should have expected if they measure the changes in the of ozone in the atmosphere .
The absorptions of the class to which A and belong musb bo those which are most easily assumed by the diatomic molecuIes of ordinary oxygen .
Whether oxygen in more complex molecules , as in ozone , may be capable of taking up the corresponding vibrations cannot easily be determined because we cannot isolate ozone ; but since none of the compounds of oxygen with nitrogen , hydrogen or carbon , or , so far as known , with any other element , exhibit these absorptions , it is very probable that they are peculiar to the molecule .
From this point of view it will be interesting to determine\mdash ; as we hope to do shortly\mdash ; whether liquefied oxygen , which we supposc to have more complex molecules , produces these absorptions .
The corresponding spectrum of emission has not as yet been obsel.ved , probably because the agency employed to render the gas luminous breaks up the molecules into single atoms of oxygen .
As for the other class of Jsorption , the diffuse bands , since they appear to have intensities proportional to the square uf the density of the gas , they must depend on a charlge produced by compression .
This may either be the formation of more complex molecules , as for example , corresponding to the deviation from Boyle 's law exhibited by oxygen gas , or it may be the constraint to which the Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June molecules are subject during their encounters with one another .
Increase of tsmperature would affect the former , tending to diminish the number of complex molecules formed at a given pressure , but would have no effect on the latter , for though ths number of encounters of the molecules in a given interval of time would be greater the higher the temperature , yet so long as the volume was unaltered the ratio of the duration of an encounter to that of free motion would be sensibly unaltered .
So far as any change due to temperature has been observed , it is that a rise of temperature slightly weakens the diffuse absorptions .
Revelting to the compounds of oxygen , none of them show the absorptions of oxygen , not even the general absorption of the rays .
Some of them , such as water and carbon dioxide , appear quite transparent to ultra-violet rays , while in others , such as nitrous oxide , which show a general absorption of the uItra-violet rays , the limit of transparency is different from that of oxygen .
In other respects we may say that there is no resemblance between the absorptions of the compounds of oxygen and those due to oxygen itself .
Some of the ormer have very definite and characteristic absorptions , such as the well-known spectra of the peroxides of nitrogen and chIorine , and we must regard these as indicating the rates of which the molecules and respectively are capable of easily taking up .
The absence of the absorptions due to oxygen from all compounds of oxygen seems to indicate either that chemical combination is not , as has been supposed by some chemists , a temporary relation in which the molecular are continually breaking up , to be formed anew with ever-changing elementary atoms ; or , that the periods of dissociation are very small compared with the periods of association .
For otherwiss we should expect that such compounds of oxygen as and must always have amongst their molecules some molecules identical with those of oxygen and capable of taking up vibrations of the same period .
At least we must conclude that little , if any , of the oxygen of these and other compounds is ever out of the influence of the other components .
We have -examined the absorption-spectrum of at various temperatures , and agree to the conclusion of Bell ( ' Amer .
Chem. Journ vol. 7 , p. 32 ) that , whether liquid or gaseous , effects only a general absorption at either end of the spectrum , and that the selective absorptions observed with it are due to the presence of In order to obtain pure , the tube in which the liquid was sealed was placed in a freezing mixture , and a large part of the liquid frozen ; the remaining liquid was then drained as completely as possible into the other end of the tube , and sealed off .
It should be observed that the crystals of appear colourless , 1889 .
] -Spectra of Oxygen and its Compounds .
and that when they are melted the liquid and superincumbent vapour are of a very pale yellow colo. .
As the temperature rises both liquid and vapour become , as is well known , of a deep orange , and finally of a dark , reddish-brown colour .
We examined the spectra , produced by two thicknesses of liquid vapour\mdash ; ( l ) by that contained in a narrow tnbs about 1 mm. in diameter , and ( 2 ) by that in a tube about 1 cm .
in diameter .
At to vapour in the narrow as well as in the wider lube showed the well-known absorption-spectrum of fine , dark lines ; no absorption by the liquid in the narl.ow tube could be detected , and the liquid in the wide tube showed no fine lines , but several , very diffuse bands , unresolvable into lines with a of three prisms .
These bands had their maxima in places wheru the fine lines of the vapour wero most intense and closely set , so that might be inferred that they were due to bimilar reolecules both cases , but that in the liquid the vibrations of these molecules were no longer sharply defined but modified by the constraint arising from the liquid state .
Some parts , however , of the spectrum of the vapour , where the lines were closely set , did not appear to be represented by any deh'nite in the liquid .
The liquid absorbed a good deal of light in a continuous manner , while the vapour only absorbed it selectively .
At the red end the limit of the visible spectrum was lowel ' for the liquid than for the gas , that is , there was more absorption of red light by the vapour than by the liquid , so much so that below a certain point the absorption by the vapour appeared continuous .
The narrow tube was next immersed in a wider tube full of glycerine , which was gradualJy heated .
As the temperature rose , the colour of both liquid and pour deepened , the absorptions of the vapour were stronger , and the liquid gave the same bands as had been before observed with the greater thickness .
At still higher temperature the absorption of blue light , both by liquid vapour , diminished sensibly , until at the groups of lines in the blue had pretty well disappeared from the spectrum of the vapour .
In fact , at there was no sensible difference between the actions of liquid and vapour on blue light , it seemed only some continnous absorption .
At the red end the difference between the liquid and vapour remained quite a , s strongly marked as at lower temperatures , if anything , so ; the absorptions in the orange , yellow , and green were unaltered .
At the lines of the vapour in the green began to fade , and at 10 they were very faint ; but those in the orange , as well as the corresponding diffuse bands in the liquid , were as strong as before .
There was still considerably more absorption of red light by the vapour than by the liquid , as if there were a strong -band in the red of the vapoul which was absent in the liquid .
As the rose to 11 all the lines in the vapour had become faint , and at 11 they were no longer discernib ] , and there 230 Absorption-Spectra of Oxygen and its Compounds .
[ June 6 , was no difference between the spectra of liquid and vapour except in red , and even here the difference was marked than at lower temperatures .
At no distinction was observable between the spectra of liquid and , there were no lines or bands in either , but a good of general absorption .
Liqnid and vaponr were dark , and appeared much of a colour , but the meniscus at the junc was quite evident .
The tube was fnrther heated to , but no further change was noticed in the spectrum .
On gradually cooling the tube , at the least refrangible band in the orange was seen coming in both in vapour and liquid , in both .
At 10 the usual lines were well seen in orange , yellow , and citron of the vapour , faint lines in the grsen , and none in the blue ; and subsequently the appearances presented on followed in the reverse A soIution of in carbon bisulphide gave , in a thickness of 7 or 8 cm .
, diffuse absorption-bands in green and citron , ill-defined as in liquid and in corresponding positions .
In a thickness of 1 cm .
these bands were no longer visible .
These observations bear out the supposition that puro is v'ithout selective absorption of the visible rays , and that the absorption observed is due to , both in { he apour and liquid , this absorption being modified in the ]iquid by the state of solution in which the have much ] freedom .
As the temperature rises the proportion of increases , and at the same time the density of the vapour increases and the freedom of motion of molecules is diminished , they are less able to assnme the more rapid vibrations , and those which they do assume become less sharply defined , so that the lines fade into bands and llltimately into a general absorption .
Taking Willard Gibbs 's ession Equilibrium of heterogeneous substances 'Connecticut Acad. Trans vol. 3 , p. ) for the density , in terms of the pressure in atmospheres , at temperature where as deduced from Deville and Troost 's nents , we find the density of at and 50 atmospheres , equal to 2 , i.e. , equal to the density of vapour at and Dewar and Ansdell found the critical temperature for to bo

