II .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Nebula of Orion , and of Jupiter , made with the Great Melbourne Telescope .
" By A. LE SUEUR .
Communicated by the Rev. T , B. ROBINSON , D.D. Received January 27 , 1870 .
In one particular the spectroscopic observations of the nebula of Orion are not void of interest ; they show distinctly that considerable nebulosity exists within and about the trapezium .
The image at the slit is sufficiently large to well separate the stars of the trapezium , so that when two of these are , as it were , threaded on the slit , a clear space lies between them ; this in the spectroscope gives the well-known lines with little , if at all , less brilliancy than the general bright nebula .
The small comparison-mirror being removed , the available slit is '4 inch high , equivalent in the case of the Cassegrain image to about 43 " arc ; with an image condensed about three times ( which is the usual arrangement and still allows sufficient separation ) , the slit may , therefore , be made to considerably overlap the trapezium contour , and thereby , at the same time as the trapezium , light from the brightest part of the nebula is under inspection ; it is curious to see that the spectral lines run with almost continuous brightness throughout the height of the slit .
24 Inaccuracy of focus of the image on the slit might perhaps somewhat mislead , but this has not been allowed to come into play ; for the focus is readily adjusted with considerable delicacy , by examination of the breadti of star spectrum , which is reduced to a minimum , In Sir John Herschel 's Cape drawing , a slight nebulosity is seen within and immediately about the trapezium ; and in the description is found the following extract from note-book:- " In the interior of the trapezium there exists positively no nebulosity , at least none comparable in intensity to that immediately without it .
" There being ( as far as I can now see or remember ) no other special reference to this matter in the description , it is not quite clear whether or not the nebulosity in the drawing rests on this evidence or on that of other nights when it may have been more conspicuous .
In Lord Rosse 's drawing the trapezium is enclosed in , and itself encloses , a space totally free from nebulosity .
My own telescopic observations here ( on not good nights unfortunately ) indicate a positive though comparatively faint nebulosity within and about the trapezium , somewhat as in the Cape drawing ; the spectroscope , however , shows with much force that this nebulosity not only exists , but is comparable in brightness to that surrounding the trapezium at some distance , the brightest part of the nebula in fact ; and therefore that , in ordinary observation , the faintness or apparent complete absence of nebula is mainly due to the disturbing brightness of the four stars , and not to any intrinsic extreme faintness or absolute vacuity .
Jupiter has been examined with results , if not , as far as may be judged at present , important , at least interesting .
Here , again , the large size of image is brought into prominent play ; with the original Cassegrain image the light is barely sufficient , but with the image condensed ( at pleasure within certain limits ) fair work becomes possible , the spectrum being considerably bright .
The lines G , F , 6 , C , D , are seen without the slightest difficulty , C ( being near to visible limit ) not so readily , but unmistakably , and many other lines with attention .
A marked feature is a dark nebulous band between C , D ; from measures this turns out to be one of the bands examined by Mr. Huggins , 882 of his scale* ( Cs of Brewster ?
) .
The observations were made generally with Jupiter not far from the meridian .
On one night only of those employed was the atmosphere at all free from perceptible haze ; as far , however , as memory could be trusted , there did not appear to be any perceptible difference in the intensity of the line on the different nights .
This line is always so conspicuous that , were it not for Mr. Huggins 's more critical observation , I would be inclined to think that in Jupiter it is much stronger than in an equally bright daylight spectrum , under conditions even more favourable than those afforded by the [ [ Wrong identification : see next paper .
] altitude of the planet and the state of the atmosphere at the times of observation ; considering , moreover , that in Mr. Huggins 's observation ( as he himself remarks ) the relative positions of the sun and Jupiter were such as considerably to exaggerate the effect of the earth 's atmosphere on the sky spectrum , it is difficult ( in the absence of a more crucial observation pointing in a contrary direction ) to escape the impression that this line is in no small degree due to Jupiter 's own atmosphere .
The band specially examined by Mr. H-uggins I have not yet succeeded in seeing with any degree of certainty ; but the opportunities have been so few , that the optical conditions for its most favourable development have not been fairly tried .
On one night the eye-aspect of Jupiter was as follows:-N to P ( Plate I. fig. 1 ) of yellowish colour , with occasional appearance in good defining moments of hair-line structure ; P to Q almost white , slight tinge of blue ; Q to R yellowish , but much darker than N P ; 1 to S also yellow , slightly brighter than N P , and with no suspicion of fine lines .
P , Q , R brown , much darker than general surface , the two latter with a red or yellow tinge , the former with a greenish one .
[ These are merely the impressions without attempt to eliminate effect of contrast .
] The absolute positions and definite shape of these bands , as given in the diagram , have no special pretensions to minute accuracy ; considerable care was , however , employed , and in any case the sketch in its broad features is sufficiently near to the truth for the special purpose in view .
In the spectrum , G , F , E , D , CG , C are laid down from measures on Jupiter .
I have called the band between C , D , CG for reference purposes , subject to rectification , although there can , I think , be little doubt of the coincidence .
A point specially aimed at in these observations was to note any peculiarity in the appearance of spectral lines of known atmospheric origin according to the part of the surface viewed .
With the slit perpendicular to Jupiter 's equator and the advantage of a large image , an admirable opportunity is afforded of noting the behaviour of the lines as they cross the different parts of the surface , a spectroscopic picture of the planet , as it were , being presented beautifully to the eye .
The nebulous line C , was specially and narrowly watched , but without any satisfactory evidence being elicited ; as this line crosses the bright band PQ it is perhaps slightly less nebulous ; on the assumption that C , is in great part due to Jupiter 's atmosphere , this peculiarity , by no means marked , is yet in the direction to be accounted for by the usual suppositions concerning the natureof Jupiter 's visible disk .
On this assumption , however , one would expect more decisive evidence of change in the line according as it is due to the cloud-band or to the surface ; there is evidence certainly , but so faint that , due regard being had to the possible disturbing effect of the somewhat greater brightness of cloud band , and to the bias which cannot be totally eliminated from the mind , it does not seem entitled to much weight .
This almost , if not altogether , complete sameness of the line might perhaps 2.4 on the foregoing assumption ) be accounted for by supposing that the cloud-bands are very near the surface , so near that the light reflected therefrom has to pass through a thickness and density of atmosphere comparable in its effects to that above the more uninterrupted parts of the surface .
Further observations may obviate the necessity for this or any other more feasible explanation , by proving that the band is mainly due to the earth ; but , as before shown , the weight of evidence , Mr. HIuggins 's observation taken into account , is in favour of the assumption that the line , as seen on Jupiter at considerable altitude , is mainly due to the planet itself .
The general appearance of the spectroscopic image is one of nearly unir form brightness , with the marked exception of the brighter band P Q , and the much darker band Q R : in this band the principal absorption takes place at the more refrangible end of the spectrum , where it is very considerable , gradually diminishing , but yet conspicuous , up to E ; at moments it may be traced very faintly up to D , with no certainty beyond .
In this band Q , 1 are not separable ; considering the size of the image this can hardly be due entirely to closeness , but would seem to show that ( at the more refrangible end at least ) the absorption of the yellow and somewhat dark space enclosed between Q , R is little inferior to that of Q , R themselves .
P is not conspicuous , but is unmistakably seen in good moments as a narrow streak at the blue end .
The experiment was made of placing the slit parallel to the planet 's equator ; when in this position and moved slowly over the surface , or arrested at particular points , 'no peculiarity was distinguishable ; so little do the parts differ in brightness , that by this method it could not , from the mere evidence of the spectrum , be told what part was being admitted through the slit ; in this method , however , greater delicacy of adjustment is required , for slight want of parallelism of the slit to the bands brings in disturbing effects .
The edges of the disk were examined , but without result .
Observatory , Melbourne , December 5 , 1869 .

